



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:43:43
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       July 17, 2015 Friday 12:09 PM GMT

Left cannot blame terror attacks on British foreign policy, warns Liz Kendall

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 548 words


Labour leadership contender Liz Kendall today criticised those on the political
Left who blame terror attacks on UK foreign policy.

She said her party must face up to the challenge of international terrorism and
told of her horror at finding out that two of her constituents were murdered in
the Tunisian beach atrocity.

The shadow health minister said: "Nobody makes anybody behead someone and put
the picture on the internet. Nobody makes somebody take a Kalashnikov and kill
two of  my constituents."

In the interview with the Standard Ms Kendall also criticised Western
governments for lacking a clear political plan in the Middle East.

It follows reports that Jeremy Corbyn is heading for victory in the Labour
leadership contest's first round.

But Ms Kendall downplayed the significance of the Left-winger winning more
backing from local Labour branches than other contenders. In a foray into
international affairs, she said it was "totally and utterly wrong" to suggest
terror atrocities were caused by British foreign policy.

The Leicester West MP went on: "As if the world is divided into adults and
children. Nobody makes anybody behead someone and put the picture on the
internet. Nobody makes somebody take a Kalashnikov and kill two of my
constituents.

"The world is a place of adults and adults. This is not going away - we have to
deal with it, face up to it."

The Foreign Office confirmed Leicester residents Ray and Angela Fisher were
among victims of gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who opened fire in Sousse last month
killing 38 people.

Islamic State has claimed it was behind the attack. Ms Kendall said: "We as a
Labour party have to understand that we can't just absent ourselves from the
rest of the world and think it's all going to go away."

The leadership hopeful, sometimes tagged as the Blairite candidate, said she
voted against military action in Syria in 2013 because it lacked an adjoining
political strategy.

She said: "We've obviously been supporting the US and what they're doing, and
bombing in Iraq, but it has to come together [with a political strategy]."

Asked if she thought the US, currently bombing targets in Syria, had a political
strategy, she said: "We're all working to try and make that happen."

Ms Kendall's campaign has gained some momentum this week after she won the
support of four female ex-union bosses. She has also won the backing of six
London borough council leaders and the elected mayor of Lewisham. Despite Mr
Corbyn winning more support from constituency parties than other candidates, she
said she was confident Labour would not elect him.

She pointed out that in the 2010 leadership contest Diane Abbott did not win
among members of any single constituency, despite being nominated by several
Labour branches.

She said: "There are people who will, more quietly, but absolutely deadly
seriously, understand that if we keep saying what we've said over the past five
to eight years, we'll get the same result.

"We've lost twice the mayoral election in London. We've lost twice in Scotland
and we've lost two general elections and that means we are powerless to put our
values into practice."

As leader, she has pledged to devolve health, skills and employment policy to
the capital and allow it to keep more business rates collected here.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SUPER-HOT DORITO NEARLY KILLED ME;
EXCLUSIVE: TORTILLA TERROR ; Beth, 14, has asthma attack after Roulette crisps
dare

BYLINE: PAUL SIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 404 words


A SCHOOLGIRL told last night how she feared she was dying after eating a
super-hot Dorito.

Asthmatic Beth Laybourn, 14, said she couldn't breathe when she scoffed a
tortilla chip ten times more spicy than a jalapeno pepper.

The curry lover was playing a chilli version of Russian roulette when she wolfed
down the snack.

She said: "I started retching so I ran to the toilet and was sick.

"I couldn't breathe properly, and I really thought I was going to die."

The asthmatic teen later suffered a severe attack at school, which has now
banned the Doritos Roulette snack and issued a warning letter to parents.

Last night, Beth's mum Dawn, 54, said: "It's time supermarkets did the same.

"The game is a stupid idea. She could have died."

The crisps include random fiery chips which Doritos boast are "hotter than most
of the spiciest dishes out there". Beth, of Scarborough, Yorks, persuaded Dawn
to buy her a packet after watching the TV ad for the Russian roulette-style chip
challenge which urges viewers to "Eat another - if you dare".

The youngster, brother Lewis, 11, and a friend played the game at her home two
weeks ago.

They took turns to pick chips and eat them before Beth pulled out a super-spicy
one.

She said: "I started sweating and felt my throat burning. I kept thinking if it
leads to a full-blown asthma attack I could die."

A week later, she suffered a major asthma attack at school and believes the
Doritos ordeal was linked to it.

She added: "It was the worst attack I've ever had. It was terrifying."

In a letter explaining the ban, the school warned: "They can cause distress,
particularly to those with sensitivities, allergies or breathing problems."

Doritos insist the snack is not suitable for young children but Dawn said:
"There's nothing stopping kids getting them."

Yesterday, a spokesman said: "We do warn people to expect a seriously spicy
experience with Doritos Roulette and make this clear on the pack and in our
adverts."

The hot chips are coated with a flavouring measuring 78,000 units on the
Scoville Heat Scale - with a super-hot Scotch Bonnet pepper starting from
100,000.

In April Doritos marketing manager Michael Walford said at the product launch:
"There's a warning on the pack for a reason - the invisible hot chips are
exactly that.

"They're hotter than most of the spiciest dishes out there so you're going to
want to have a glass of milk at the ready in case you get one."

paul.sims@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Firing line ... Beth's school has banned the Doritos RouletteKids fear
... mum Dawn

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

TERROR ATTACK KILLS 4;
Marines shot dead

BYLINE: PETE SAMSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words


A GUNMAN killed at least four Marines yesterday in a terrifying rampage at two
American military centres.

Three more victims were wounded in the attacks, which security chiefs are
treating as "domestic terrorism".

The gunman was killed in a shoot-out with police, and was later named by the FBI
as Kuwait-born Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez, 24, pictured below.

Investigators were trying to determine whether he had any links to IS and
whether the Middle East terror group inspired the attacks.

Witnesses saw the gunman, who was raised locally, using a high-powered rifle to
shoot at a military recruitment office in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

He sped off in a silver convertible Mustang as police gave chase, then opened
fire again at a US Naval Reserve Center five miles away.

It is believed the Marines were shot dead at the second location before
Abdulazeez was shot by police.

Witness April Grimmett, who was working near the recruitment centre, said: "I
could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane."

Attorney for Tennessee Bill Killian said: "We are treating this as an act of
domestic terrorism."

President Barack Obama sent his condolences to victims' families. He said: "It
is heartbreaking for these individuals who have served our country with great
valour to be killed in this fashion."

He said the FBI would lead a prompt probe, and defence chiefs would ensure bases
were defended.

pete.samson@thesun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shoot-out . . police hunting gunman yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 9:55 PM GMT

Chattanooga shooting victims identified as attack is treated as terrorism;
The FBI is investigating reports that Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez may have
travelled to Yemen and Jordan in recent years but officials say they have not
yet found any link to terrorist groups

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Chattanooga

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 912 words


The four marines shot dead in Chattanooga have been identified including one
marine who was a military hero who won a Purple Heart during two tours of Iraq
and a 21-year-old who only recently signed up.

Thomas Sullivan, 41, and Skip Wells died on Thursday morning when Mohammad
Youssuf Abdulazeez, 24, opened fire on a Marine training centre in the Tennessee
city, killed alongside David Wyatt and Carson Holmquist.

Minutes earlier his silver Ford Mustang pulled up alongside a military
recruiting office where he sprayed the building with bullets, riddling its glass
frontage with holes .

Abdulazeez was shot dead at the scene.

More information came out about the four marines killed including the fact that
Gunnery Sgt Sullivan was deployed twice during the Iraq war and received two
Purple Hearts. Staff Sgt Wyatt was deployed during both the Iraq and Afghanistan
wars, while Sgt Holmquist was deployed to Afghanistan.

Lance Cpl Wells attended Georgia Southern University for about a year but
decided to enter the Marine Corps. Family friend Andy Kingery, who is acting as
a family spokesman, said he believed Mr Wells "died doing what he wanted to do
and had chosen to do".

Caroline Dove, the partner of Lance Cpl Wells revealed the final text message
exchange with her boyfriend in which his last text to her read: "ACTIVE
SHOOTER."

Ms Dove then replied: "You are weird" and later "I love you". Her panic later
appeared as she sought to contact her partner and asked him to answer his phone.

Authorities said they have found no motive for the attack nor any link to
international terrorist groups such as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant .

Their focus is believed to be on the gunman's recent travel to Jordan - his
family's home country - and possibly Yemen.

But on Friday, the US Attorney in eastern Tennessee said the attacks were being
treated as a terrorism investigation. Bill Killian said that investigators will
"let the facts and the evidence lead us where it may".

The attack comes at a time when the US is keeping a close watch for home-grown
lone wolves, inspired by online extremists.

On Friday, a sign on the door of the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga,
where Abdulazeez had worshipped, announced that Eid celebrations - marking the
end of the holy Muslim month of Ramadan - had been cancelled.

Meanwhile, comrades paid tribute to the fallen marines.

Josh Parnell, from Chicago, told the Oak Lawn Patch, that Sgt Sullivan took part
in Iraq's battle of Abu Ghraib in 2005, and was awarded a Combat Action patch
and a Purple Heart.

"There's no marine you would want that was better in combat than him," he said.

"He'd been shot at so many times over the years and then for this to happen at
home in the United States."

Neighbours of the Abdulazeez family, in a prosperous suburb high on a ridge
overlooking the city, recalled a happy young man, who played baseball with a
tennis ball in front of their home.

They could find no immediate explanation of what had gone wrong.

"He would wave at me as he drove past when I was walking my dogs," said one
neighbour, speaking on condition of anonymity.

"He was polite and well brought-up."

But in recent days he had set up a blog devoted to interpreting Islamic
teaching, according to the Site Intelligence Group which monitors terrorism.

Although there is no reference to launching a violent attack, there are hints of
disenchantment along with calls to the devoted.

"Brothers and sisters don't be fooled by your desires, this life is short and
bitter and the opportunity to submit to Allah may pass you by," he wrote.

The FBI said the gunman had at least two long guns and one handgun, and some of
the purchases were legal and some were not.

FBI agent Ed Reinhold did not go into specifics about the weapons at a news
conference on Friday. He said investigators were also looking at all of his
overseas travel.

The agent said: "He was not wearing any body armour, but he was wearing what we
consider a load-bearing vest, meaning that it was a vest he was able to carry
additional magazines."

The FBI added he was wearing a load-bearing vest that allowed him to move about
while carrying additional ammunition while he moved about.

Gradually a picture is emerging of a young man who may have struggled with his
American identity and Middle Eastern ancestry.

He was born in Kuwait to a Jordanian family and became naturalised American when
his family moved to Tennessee.

He was a keen wrestler and took up mixed martial arts, but reportedly gave up
the hobby when his father disapproved. In April, police arrested him on
suspicion of driving under the influence.

A bdulazeez attended high school in a Chattanooga suburb and graduated from the
University of Tennessee in 2012 with an engineering degree, according to a CV
posted online. His work experience includes an internship with the Tennessee
Valley Authority, a regional power utility.

The governor of Tennessee has ordered flags to fly at half-mast and security has
been tightened at military and federal institutions.

Leaders of the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga added their voices to
condemnation.

"We condemn this act in the strongest possible terms as one of cowardice and
hate," they said in a statement.

"At the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga, we don't see our community
centre as a "Muslim" community; we are Chattanoogans first, and we see ourselves
as part of the larger community of Tennesseans grieving today's act.".

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 9:55 PM GMT

There will be no more Prophet Mohammed cartoons, says Charlie Hebdo editor;
Laurent Sourisseau, who played dead during the terror attack on the magazine in
Paris earlier this year, says he does not want to believe the magazine is
obsessed with Islam

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


The editor of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has said the magazine will
no longer draw cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in an interview with a German
magazine.

Laurent Sourisseau told Hamburg-based news magazine, Stern, that the magazine
had done its job and what it had set out to fulfil.

The weekly magazine's editor, who is known as Riss, said: " We have drawn
Mohammad to defend the principle that one can draw whatever they want. It is a
bit strange though: we are expected to exercise a freedom of expression that no
one dares to.

"We've done our job. We have defended the right to caricature."

He told the German magazine he did not want to believe the magazine was
possessed by Islam but maintained that he believed that they had "the right to
criticise all religions".

His comments come six months after the three-day siege in Paris which began on
January 7 when two brothers stormed into the magazine's offices and shot dead 12
people .

Among the dead were cartoonists Charb - (real name Stephane Charbonnier) 47, an
artist and editor of Charlie Hebdo, Cabu - (real name Jean Cabut), 76, the lead
cartoonist for Hebdo, Georges Wolinski, 80, an artist who had been drawing
cartoons since the 1960s and Tignous - (real name Bernard Verlhac) 57, a member
of Cartoonists for Peace.

Mr Sourisseau came close to death himself and only survived the massacre after
playing dead, he told the magazine.

He recounted the tragic details of the terror attack committed by Islamist
terrorists Said and Chérif Kouachi. The Yemeni branch of al-Qaeda claimed
responsibility for the attack which they said was punishment for the cartoons of
the prophet. In Islam, it is blasphemous to depict the prophet visually.

"When it was over, there was no sound. No complaints. No whining. That is when I
understood that most were dead," Mr Sourisseau added.

In the interview, he said Islam was not the only religion they could find faults
within.

"The mistakes you could blame Islam for can be found in other religions," the
editor, who owns 40 per cent of the company's shares, said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 9:32 AM GMT

Four Marines shot dead at Tennessee base in suspected terror attack

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely, Washington

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 546 words


The murder of four US Marines by a gunman at a military reservist training
office in Tennessee was being treated as a suspected terrorist attack,
investigators said last night.

The gunman, who was killed, was identified by the FBI as Mohammod Youssef
Abdulazeez, 24. He was an engineering graduate who was born in Kuwait but who
moved to the US as a schoolboy with his family.

He lived in Hixson, a middle-class Chattanooga suburb where neighbours described
him as a quiet, likeable young man. Two females were arrested as the FBI raided
his family home, hours after Abdulazeez reportedly unleashed a barrage of
gunfire at two separate military facilities.

The FBI said Abdulazeez was not on any watch list, but it was investigating
whether the shootings were inspired by Islamic State, which had called for a
surge in terrorism during Ramadan. A jihadist Twitter account claimed
responsibility, but the claim could not be verified.

The first gunshots were reported at a military recruiting office in a shopping
centre in Chattanooga at about 10.45am yesterday.

Witnesses saw a man brandishing a weapon - thought to have been a semi-automatic
rifle - in a car park outside the facility. He fired about 25 or 30 shots,
leaving the building riddled with bullet holes clustered in groups - a possible
indication, experts said, of weapons training.

Police were on the scene in minutes and chased Abdulazeez, who was driving a
silver Ford Mustang convertible. He raced to a US naval reserve centre about
seven miles away, where he killed the four Marines before being shot dead, about
30 minutes after firing the first shots. A police officer and a Marine corps
recruiter were injured.

The gunman was in possession of "numerous weapons", officials said.

Kagan Wagner, a neighbour, told the Chattanooga Times Free Press: "I never would
have thought it would be him. They were your average Chattanooga family."

In his high school year book, Abdulazeez, whose father appears to work for the
local government in Chattanooga, had chosen the quote: "My name causes national
security alerts. What does yours do?" More recent online photographs showed him
with a long beard, but there were no immediate signs that he had succumbed to
radicalism or that he was a particularly devout Muslim. He appears to have been
arrested for drink driving in April.

Speaking from the Oval Office, President Obama said that the gunman appeared to
have been acting alone. It was "heartbreaking that [four Marines] who had served
their country with such valour have been killed in such fashion", he said.
Security at federal facilities was tightened after the attack.

The shooting came amid heightened fears of lone-wolf terror attacks inspired by
Islamist fundamentalism.

The attack drew comparisons to previous mass shootings at US military
installations. In 2009, Nidal Hasan, a US army major, killed 13 people at Fort
Hood in Texas. In 2013 an attack at the Washington Navy Yard by a mentally ill
IT contractor left 12 dead.

Marilyn Hutcheson, who works near the second attack site in Chattanooga, said
that she heard a barrage of gunshots. "I couldn't even begin to tell you how
many," she said.

"It was rapid fire, like pow pow pow, so quickly. The next thing I knew, there
were police cars coming from every direction."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Walsall Advertiser

                              July 17, 2015 Friday

Support promised for terror attack families

BYLINE: Dan Newbould; News Reporter

SECTION: NEWS:POLITICS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 473  words


A WALSALL MP called for 'help' for the bereaved families of the tragic Tunisian
terror attack victims on Prime Minister's Questions last week.

Joel Richards, aged just 19, his uncle Adrian Evans, and his grandfather Charles
'Patrick' Evans, who were all Saddler's fans, were all killed in the shootings.

And on Wednesday (July 8), Walsall South MP Valerie Vaz questioned David Cameron
on what will be done to help their family.

Speaking at the House of Commons, she said: "At Walsall Football Club's stadium
there were tears, flowers and Walsall shirts and scarves as we remembered Joel
Richards, Adrian Evans and Charles 'Patrick' Evans, all Saddler's fans who were
killed in Tunisia.

"Will the Prime Minister outline what steps he will take to ensure that bereaved
families and the survivors of atrocities can have help immediately and in the
future?"

Prime Minister David Cameron replied: "I thank the Hon. Lady for her question.
The thoughts and condolences of the whole House go out to the families of her
constituents. I am glad to hear that Walsall FC is facilitating this very
fitting tribute.

"I was very moved when I heard about it on television. I have asked the Cabinet
secretary for advice on a ministerial committee to ensure that work is properly
coordinated across Government to support all those who have been affected.

"When I was talking to the victims of the 7/7 bombings, I was very struck by the
way that they had been supported across many years in many different ways,
covering all sorts of different issues in their own lives and the way they
wanted to commemorate those terrible events in   London.

"I want to ensure that we do it as well in the case of the Tunisian atrocities,
and that is exactly what that committee will be set up to do."

Speaking after, Valerie Vaz MP told the Advertiser that 'welcomed' his reply and
also revealed she has tabled an Early Day Motion recognising Walsall FC's
response to the tragedy.

She said: "As the Prime Minister noted, a high level of support has been
provided for survivors of the London bombings 10 years ago and it is crucial
that this support is matched for the bereaved families and the survivors of the
attack in Tunisia.

"It is crucial that the Prime Minister delivers on this   commitment and that
this vital support is provided immediately.

"I commend Walsall FC for organising the national one minute's silence at Bescot
Stadium. The club enabled the people of Walsall and Saddlers fans to remember
Joel Richards, Adrian Evans and Patrick Evans, whose families were present.

"I also welcome the announcement by Walsall FC that it will place memorial
bricks dedicated to Joel Richards, Adrian Evans and Patrick Evans on the 125
Sign which commemorates the Club's 125th anniversary. I have also tabled an
Early Day Motion recognising the Club's response to this tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Valerie Vaz MP has called on more help to be given to the families of
the Tunisia terror attack victims.
Walsall FC fans Adrian, Charles and Joel who tragically lost their lives in
Tunisia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Marines killed in 'terror attack' at military centre

BYLINE: Press Association

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 431 words


AT least four US Marines were killed when a gunman unleashed a barrage of shots
at two military facilities in Tennessee yesterday, officials said. The suspect
was also killed.

Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said a total of five people died, including the
gunman.

US Attorney Bill Killian said offi-cials were treating the attacks as an "act of
domestic terrorism", although FBI Special Agent in Charge Ed Reinhold said
authorities were still investigating a motive.

Two officials told the Associated Press that four US Marines were among the
dead. A soldier was being treated in hospital for a gunshot wound to the leg,
according to one of the officials. The other official said a police officer was
also injured.

"Lives have been lost from some faithful people who have been serving our
country, and I think I join all Tennesseans in being both sickened and saddened
by this," Governor Bill Haslam said.

There was also a shooting at a military recruitment centre about 7 miles (11km)
away.

Brian Lepley, a spokesman for the US Army Recruiting Command in Fort Knox,
Kentucky, said his recruiters there were told by law enforcement that the
gunman, who was in a car, stopped in front of the facility, fired at the
building and drove off.

The Army recruiters at the facility told Mr Lepley they were not hurt and had
evacuated. Mr Lepley said he had no information about recruiters for the other
military branches at the facility.

An Army recruiter in Chattanooga, said he was at his office when he heard 30 to
50 shots.

President Barack Obama was briefed by his national security team on the
shootings, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said, adding that the president
would get updates from his staff as needed.

Marilyn Hutcheson, who works just across the street, said she heard a barrage of
gunfire around 11am local time.

"I couldn't even begin to tell you how many," she said. "It was rapid fire, like
pow pow pow pow pow - so quickly. The next thing I knew, there were police cars
coming from every direction."

She ran inside, where she remained locked down with other employees and a
customer. The gunfire continued with occasional bursts, she estimated, for 20
minutes. "We're apprehensive," Ms Hutcheson said. "Not knowing what transpired,
if it was a grievance or terroristic related, we just don't know." A US official
later said the gunman had been identified as 24-year-old Muhammad Youssef
Abdulazeez.

He was believed to have been born in Kuwait, and it was unclear whether he was
an American or Kuwaiti citizen. He was from Hixson, Tennessee, a few miles
across the river from Chattanooga.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This video grab from WRCB-TV shows police taking up positions to deal
with a gunman who had attacked the <BNaval Reserve Center in Chattanooga,
Tennssee yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Even in the end they stayed together;
The Black Country and Staffordshire united in grief as final, sad farewells were
said to four people murdered in the Tunisia terror attack. There were tears as
happy memories were recalled and the communities of West Bromwich and Tamworth
linked in support for the bereaved families. Annette Belcher and Jasbir Authi
report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 533 words


HUNDREDS of mourners gathered to pay their last respects to three members of the
same family from the West Midlands who were murdered in the Tunisia beach
massacre.

The joint funeral of 19-year-old Joel Richards, his uncle Adrian Evans and the
teenager's grandfather, Charles Patrick Evans, heard that they tried to protect
each other even in their final moments.

Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen, who survived the attack, and their mother
Suzanne were among around 700 people who attended the service in West Bromwich.

Adrian Evans, a 49-year-old gas service manager, 78-year-old Charles Evans,
known to friends as Pat, and Joel were killed within 24 hours of arriving in
Tunisia.

Addressing those inside the Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church and around 200
people who gathered outside to listen to the service, Monsignor Bruce Harbert
said his thoughts and prayers were with Owen.

Paying tribute to all three victims, the clergyman said: "Even in their last
moments they stayed together, seeking to protect each other, a true Christian
family to the end.

"Happily, Owen is still with us. Our thoughts and prayers are with you, Owen,
wishing you a long, happy and fruitful life, supported by the prayer of your
brother, your uncle and your grandfather.

"A lot has been said in recent days about the good they did - Pat's long
contribution to the life of the community here in Stone Cross, the respect in
which Adrian was held by his colleagues, and the love the children at St Mary's
School felt for Joel as he worked with them in the last few weeks."

Msgr Harbert described the men's murder in the resort of Sousse three weeks ago
as "an evil act".

"What happened to them is part of a much larger picture, a global conflict," he
said. "This is often spoken of as an attack on British values. But there are no
true British values that are not also Christian values, in particular, the value
of freedom."

Mourners, some wearing "Keep Calm and Smile" T-shirts, were handed an order of
service featuring a photograph of the three men relaxing during their flight to
Tunisia.

In his address to the funeral at the church in Hall Green Road, West Bromwich,
Msgr Harbert said: "In our society, men and women mingle together freely.

"This freedom brings challenges and dangers, but it is precious to us, and it is
the gift of Jesus Christ.

"He taught, over and over again, that religion is not a matter of obeying rules,
but of loving God and our fellow human beings."

After a reading from the Book of Revelation, Msgr Harbert said many people would
ask why it was Pat, Adrian and Joel who "were in the wrong place at the wrong
time".

"These are questions we shall never be able to answer," he told mourners. "But
as we bid them farewell in grief and bewilderment, we salute them also with a
touch of pride."

Joel, a University of Worcester student and talented football referee, is
believed to be the youngest of the British victims killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui.

The victims' family have long-standing links to Holy Cross, with Charles Evans
having married there and the church hosting Adrian Evans' baptism.

'' As we bid them farewell in grief and bewilderment, we salute them also with a
touch of pride MSGR BRUCE HARBERT

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victims Pat Evans, Adrian Evans and Joel Richards ¦The funeral cortege
for the three family members arrives at Holy Cross RC Church ¦The coffins Adrian
Evans, 49, is carried into the church ¦Owen Richards (left), the brother of Joel
Richards, 19, who died in the Sousse terror attack in Tunisia along ¦with his
uncle, 49-year-old Adrian Evans, and his grandfather, Charles Patrick Evans, 78,
with his mother SuzanneMourners at the funeral of Sue Davey, right, at Editha's
church in Tamworth ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday

Tributes at funerals for eight British victims of Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: By Tim Moynihan, Press Association

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 369 words


HEARTFELT tributes have been paid to eight Britons killed in the Tunisia beach
massacre, including three generations of the same family gunned down as they
shielded each other.

Joel Richards, 19, his uncle, Adrian Evans, and the teenager's grandfather,
Charles Patrick Evans, were described at their funeral as the "true definition"
of a close-knit family.

Joel's 16-year-old brother, Owen, who survived the Sousse shootings, and their
mother, Suzanne Richards, attended the joint service in West Bromwich.

Meanwhile, the fiance of Carly Lovett overcame his grief to act as a pall-bearer
at her funeral in Lincolnshire. In an emotional address to mourners at All
Saints Church in Gainsborough, Liam Moore spoke of the last moments they spent
together.

Miss Lovett, a 24-year-old graduate, was on her first "couple's holiday" with Mr
Moore when she was shot. He told mourners at her funeral: "She told me that she
loved me, I told her that I loved her."

The funerals of Sue Davey, from Staffordshire, and Bruce Wilkinson, of
Lincolnshire, also took place, while a service was held in London for Janet and
John Stocker.

Adrian Evans, a 49-year-old gas services manager, 78-year-old Charles Evans,
known to friends as Pat, and Joel Richards were killed within 24 hours of
arriving in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mandy Churchill, speaking  on behalf of their family, told the joint funeral
that, along with Owen, they were the "true definition of what a close-knit
family was all about".

Adrian Scarrott, Adrian Evans' boss at Sandwell Council, said he had been "a
privilege to work with", and joked about his taste for country singer Dolly
Parton's music.

Elsewhere, the grown-up children of Sue Davey walked behind her coffin, borne by
a horse-drawn carriage, as it arrived for her funeral in Tamworth,
Staffordshire. Ms Davey, 43, was on holiday with partner Scott Chalkley, who
also died in the shootings.

Hundreds also turned out for the funeral of Mr Wilkinson in Goole, East
Yorkshire.

Tributes were also paid to married couple 74-year-old Mr Stocker and his wife
Janet, 63, at a service in south-west London.

Their family said in a statement: "They made a huge impact on our lives, and
touched the hearts of so many people."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday

Grandfather killed in terror attack is laid to rest

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 179  words


GOOLE:  A devoted grandfather has been laid to rest, three weeks after he was
shot dead in the Tunisian terrorist attack.

Bruce Wilkinson, pictured,  72, was on holiday with his wife Rita in the resort
of Sousse when 28-year-  old student Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire   on the
beach.

Mr Wilkinson's funeral took place yesterday at St John's Parish Church in Goole.
He was buried in Goole Cemetery.

In a statement released after his death, Mr Wilkinson's family said he will be
missed.

It said: "We are devastated at the loss of Bruce who was a devoted husband,
father and grandfather. Bruce was a loving family man and, in his working life,
worked to support the care of others.

"He was a kind and compassionate man with a dry sense of humour.

"He was fun-loving and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike.

Thirty Britons were killed in the attack on June 26 including east Hull mum
Claire Windass, 54.

Her husband Jim, who she was on holiday with, "miraculously" managed to escape
unharmed.

Her funeral was held this week in Barnetby in North Lincolnshire, where she grew
up.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hundreds pay respects to victims OFTUNISIA terror attack Hundreds pay respects
to victims OFTUNISIA terror attack

BYLINE: Matthew Cooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 667 words


HEARTFELT tributes have been paid to eight Britons killed in the Tunisia beach
massacre, including three generations of the same family gunned down as they
shielded each other.

Joel Richards, 19, his uncle, Adrian Evans, and the teenager's grandfather,
Charles Patrick Evans, were described at their funeral as the "true definition"
of a close-knit family.

Joel's 16-year-old brother ,Owen, who survived the Sousse shootings, and their
mother, Suzanne Richards, attended the joint service in West Bromwich.

Meanwhile, the fiance of Carly Lovett overcame his grief to act as a pall-bearer
at her funeral in Lincolnshire. In an emotional address to mourners at All
Saints Church in Gainsborough, Liam Moore spoke of the last moments they spent
together.

Miss Lovett, a 24-year-old graduate, was on her first "couple's holiday" with Mr
Moore when she was shot. He told her funeral: "She told me that she loved me, I
told her that I loved her.

"I hope that she took comfort in knowing that I was there with her. I would
never have left her as she would never have left me."

Mr Moore and Miss Lovett were childhood sweethearts who had recently become
engaged after more than 10 years together.

He said: "She was my idol, my inspiration, my hero. Even though we had been
together for so long, it felt to me like our lives had only just started."

The funerals of Sue Davey, from Staffordshire, and Bruce Wilkinson, of
Lincolnshire, also took place today, while a service was held in London for
Janet and John Stocker.

Adrian Evans, a 49-year-old gas services manager, 78-year-old Charles Evans,
known to friends as Pat, and Joel Richards were killed within 24 hours of
arriving in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mandy Churchill, speaking on behalf of their family, told the joint funeral
that, along with Owen, they were the "true definition of what a close-knit
family was all about".

Ms Churchill said that losing one family member was painful enough, never mind
having three lives "so cruelly taken".

"The fact this relationship is over is far too painful to contemplate," she went
on, adding that Owen was now the family's priority.

Adrian Scarrott, Adrian Evans' boss at Sandwell Council, said he had been "a
privilege to work with", and joked about his taste for country singer Dolly
Parton's music. "Ade was never mean and never moody and on a bad day Ade was the
one that always had a knack of cheering people up," he said.

He paid tribute to Mr Evans' "massive heart" and generosity.

Mike Penn, chairman of Birmingham County FA, spoke of promising referee Joel and
his "infectious smile".

Mr Penn said he had "no doubt" that the University of Worcester student would
have reached the pinnacle of the refereeing profession in the Premier League.

Monsignor Bruce Harbert said his thoughts and prayers were with Owen. Paying
tribute to all three victims, the clergyman said: "Even in their last moments
they stayed together, seeking to protect each other, a true Christian family to
the end. Happily, Owen is still with us. Our thoughts and prayers are with you,
Owen, wishing you a long, happy and fruitful life, supported by the prayer of
your brother, your uncle and your grandfather."

Elsewhere, the grown-up children of Sue Davey walked behind her coffin, borne by
a horse-drawn carriage, as it arrived for her funeral in Tamworth,
Staffordshire.

Ms Davey, 43, was on holiday with partner Scott Chalkley, who also died in the
shootings.

Hundreds also turned out for the funeral of Bruce Wilkinson in Goole, East
Yorkshire.

Among those in attendance was local MP Andrew Percy, who has been supporting the
72-year-old grandfather's relatives.

Mr Percy wrote on Twitter: "Very moving funeral service for Goole man Bruce
Wilkinson this morning. Town did Bruce proud in show of support."

Tributes were also paid to married couple 74-year-old John Stocker and his wife
Janet, 63, at a service in south-west London.

Their family said in a statement: "They made a huge impact on our lives, and
touched the hearts of so many people."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mourners at the funeral service of Tunisia shooting victim Suzanne
Linda Davey at St Editha's church in <B Tamworth in the MidlandsSuzanne
Richards, is hugged as she leaves the Holy Cross Roman Catholic <B Church in
West Bromwich, following the combined funeral service of her son Joel Richards,
19, who died in the Sousse terror attack in Tunisia along with his uncle,
49-year-old Adrian Evans, and his 78-year-old grandfather, Charles Patrick
Evans.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 7:30 PM GMT

'I was in the dark on what my son has done...and I'm sorry': Father of gunman
who killed five in Chattanooga terror attack apologizes for his son's rampage

BYLINE: BELINDA ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 776 words



     ·    Youssuf Saed Abdulazeez telephoned the president of the Islamic
          Society of Greater Chattanooga - Bassam Issa - to express his remorse
     ·    Issa told reporters Friday that the family were 'devastated' by the
          shooting rampage carried out by gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez
     ·    He said: 'He [the father] was in the dark on what his son has done. He
          is very devastated and he actually apologized'
     ·    He also apologized for what his son had done to the 'community at
          large and to the Muslim community'
     ·    However, his father, who was born in the Palestinian territories was
          once put on a terror watch list, but later cleared


The father of the gunman who killed four Marines in a Chattanooga recruitment
center and left another victim dead has apologized for his son's horrific
murders saying he was 'devastated' by his actions.

Youssuf Saed Abdulazeez telephoned the president of the Islamic Society of
Greater Chattanooga - Bassam Issa - to express his remorse.

Issa told reporters Friday that the family were shocked by the shooting rampage
carried out by gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez.

Scroll down for video

He said: 'He [the father] was in the dark on what his son had done. He is very
devastated and he actually apologized for what his son did to the community at
large and to the Muslim community.'

'And I told him that we all feel distraught - we all feel shocked - and to
basically pray to God that we all as one community come together.'

The father, is reported to be a regular worshiper at the mosque. But after
issuing his apology he appeared to imply that he had no idea what his son had
planned.

His 24-year old son gunned down four Marines and left another Navy petty officer
dead from his injuries, Saturday, during two brazen gun attacks in Chattanooga,
Tennessee on Thursday.

On Friday it was revealed that he took several mysterious trips to the middle
east before blogging about Allah and Islam in the days before his deadly gun
attack.

It was also revealed that he spent seven months in Jordan between April and
November 2014. And he also visited Yemen and Jordan at least four other times
between 2003 and Spring 2010.

However, his father, who claims to have known nothing about the attack
beforehand, was also put on a terror watch list in the past, but was later
cleared.

That investigation allegedly had to do with the father's contributions to a
charity and questions about whether the money was being funneled to fund
terrorism.

The gunman's father was reportedly born in the Palestinian territories and had a
violent past according to court documents exclusively obtained by DailyMail.com.

In 2009 Abdulazeez's mother filed for divorce from his father accusing him of
shocking attacks on her and the children.

He was accused of physically attacking his wife of 28 years and sexually
assaulting her in front of the children. He also wanted to take a second wife
under Islamic law.

The couple ultimately reconciled and stayed together, but it's not known what
effect the allegations and court hearings had on their son, who was a senior at
the time.

Abdulazeez's deadly rampage began at 11 am on Thursday.

He pulled up to a strip mall in Chattanooga and started shooting through the
glass windows of a military recruitment office holding a gun from the drivers
seat of a rented silver convertible.

After showering the place in a hail of bullets, Abdulazeez then sped off and
drove about seven miles north to a U.S. Naval Reserve Center near a Coca-Cola
bottling plant.

There, he opened fire again at a group of servicemen through a fence.

The shooting was finally brought to an end when police officers intervened and
Abdulazeez reportedly rammed the sports car into a gate and was shot dead by a
police officer.

Five servicemen have died following the attack.

They have been named as Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith, 26, who
passed away in hospital at 2.17am on Saturday.

And US Marines: Lance Cpl Skip Wells, 21, Staff Sgt David Wyatt, 37, Gunnery Sgt
Thomas J Sullivan, 40, and Sgt Carson Holmquist , 27, Another Marine was also
wounded.

Authorities in Chattanooga are treating the killings as a domestic terror
incident.

On Thursday, law enforcement officers detained a woman as they surrounded a
house in Hixson, Tennessee, where the gunman lived for almost 17 years.

But the FBI said that they do not believe that anyone else is involved at this
stage.

Meanwhile, an interfaith vigil was held at Olivet Baptist Church on Friday in
remembrance of the victims of the July 16 shootings.

The congregation included Chattanooga Deputy Police Chief David Roddy along with
Muslims from the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga who came to offer their
support.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 5:11 PM GMT

Open for business: Kenya's Westgate shopping mall re-opens nearly two years
after terror attack by al Shabaab militants that killed 67

BYLINE: FLORA DRURY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words



     ·    The Nairobi mall was almost entirely destroyed during four-day seige
     ·    The group said attack was retaliation for Kenya sending troops to
          Somalia
     ·    Thousands have visited on its first day of business this Saturday
     ·    The city's governor said it showed the resilience of the Kenyan people




Westgate shopping mall opened its doors for the first time since gunmen from the
Somali militant group al Shabaab massacred at least 67 people inside.

The shopping mall was almost completely destroyed when the militants laid siege
to the complex nearly two years ago.

But today - under the obvious supervision of heavily armed guards - the mall
which had once been a symbol of Kenya's growing prosperity welcomed shoppers
back.

Scroll down for video

Images of Westgate under attack by unidentified gunmen were beamed around the
world in September 2013, as they laid terrifying waste to the popular Nairobi
mall.

Shoppers hid behind mannequins, inside cardboard boxes, in storage rooms, in
ventilation shafts and in the parking lot underneath parked cars in a desperate
bid to escape the killers.

By the time the siege was over, the mall was left in tatters, with
bullet-scarred walls, shattered windows, flooded floors and bloodstains, while
more than 170 had been injured and 67 were dead.

The four attacks are believed to have died from smoke inhalation from a fire
that collapsed a central roof.

The attack seriously hurt Kenya's tourism industry, and the country's
embarrassment was compounded by Westgate security footage which showed soldiers
looting the mall after the militants were killed.

Its reopening, however, has been heralded as something to be celebrated.

Nairobi governor Evans Kidero said it showed the resilience of the Kenyan
people.

'I know there will be apprehensions but as a country we are safer than ever and
we will continue to work to ensure that our country is safe,' he said.

Thousands of people turned up when the doors opened on Saturday morning, and
stores and restaurants across the complex were crowded with patrons.

Major Western brands, including Subway, KFC and Converse, have outlets in the
new mall along with Kenyan companies such as Nakumatt, a high-end supermarket
chain popular with well-heeled locals and expatriate workers.

'When terrorists attack, one of their main aim is to ensure that where they
destroy people pull down those buildings and put up memorial parks but in
Westgate we refused to do that,' said shopper Eric Muluka.

However, mall bosses are remaining vigilant. Israeli firm I.R.G. has been put in
charge of running security in the reopened mall. New features include explosive
detectors, luggage X-rays, scanners to check underneath cars, bollards to
prevent car bombs, and bullet-proof guard towers.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 4:56 PM GMT

Marine Dakota Meyer issues call to arms following Chattanooga terror attack as
he posts Afghanistan photo with one of the five servicemen shot dead

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON IN CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1265 words



     ·    The Medal of Honor winner posted a photo of himself on Facebook
          standing next to the one of the victims - Marine Sgt Carson Holmquist
     ·    He said he met Holmquist as part of a morale-boosting visit to
          Afghanistan


War hero Dakota Meyer has issued a call to arms after the death for five
servicemen in the Chattanooga terror shooting.

The Medal of Honor recipient also posted a photo of himself on his Facebook page
standing next to the one of the victims - Marine Sgt Carson Holmquist.

He said he met Holmquist as part of a morale-boosting visit to Afghanistan.

Meyer wrote: 'The tragedy in Chattanooga, TN has hit home for many, family and
friends of those fallen included. I am a part of that group. This is a photo of
myself with Carson Holmquist, one of the Marines we lost yesterday.

'I had the opportunity to meet and talk with him while visiting my fellow
Marines a while back in Afghanistan.

This should be a calling to our veterans and citizens in America to walk hand in
hand and rise to the calling of being responsible citizens and protecting our
great nation. It is time to be our neighbors keeper.'

Former Marine Meyer, 27, was awarded the nation's highest bravery award for
saving the lives of more than a dozen men during a brutal firefight in
Afghanistan in 2009.

Soon after the tragedy in Chattanooga, Tennessee he voiced his feelings on his
Facebook page and issued a rallying call to arms.

The deaths of five servicemen at the hands of Muslim killer Muhammad Youseff
Abdulazeez has re-ignited the debate over gun control.

Many want to see military personnel at recruitment centers armed - and believe
the five victims might have stood a chance of survival if they had been able to
return fire.

Major General Paul Greenberg, a spokesman for the US Marines, said there were no
plans go change its current policy of a weapons ban at recruiting centres.

He said: 'There is no plan to arm recruiting personnel.

'The incident has not changed the Marine Corps' resolve to maintain a presence
in our American communities.

'Our reserve centres will remain open, and continue with the mission of
augmenting and reinforcing the active component Marine Corps, with trained units
and individual Marines as a sustainable and ready operational reserve.'

All five victims died at a Naval Reserve Centre when 24-year-old Abdulazeez
opened fire with an AK-47 assault rifle. Police said he had two Ak-47s and two
handguns.

Meyer, who retired from the US Marines after being presented with the Medal of
Honor by President Obama in 2011, was unequivocal in his call for Americans to
be allowed to carry guns at all times.

He said Americans should be able to freely exercise their Constitutional right
to bear arms under the 2nd Amendment.

'Now is not the time to come out waving photos of bullet holes in the glass
calling for more gun control and spinning the story to yield a further
separation of peoples in the United States.

'Now is the time for a call on the American people to finally realise the state
of the world we are living in and the enemy that we face,' he wrote.

'Now is the time to call on the American people to ignore the propaganda that
special interest groups have been shoving in our faces and unite as a country so
that we may become our neighbor's keeper.

Evil is not just overseas, but also here at home.'

In the 48 hours after Meyer posted his views more than half a million people
shared the post.

The Afghanistan war hero later followed up the post with the photo of his arms
draped around 25 year old Holmquist.

It is not known when the photograph was taken but Holmquist, a married father of
one from Arkansas, was deployed to Afghanistan from September 2013 to May 2013.

Meyer wrote on his Facebook page: 'The tragedy in Chattanooga, TN has hit home
for many, family and friends of those fallen included. I am a part of that
group.

'This is a photo of myself with Carson Holmquist, one of the Marines we lost
yesterday. I had the opportunity to meet and talk with him while visiting my
fellow Marines a while back in Afghanistan.

This should be a calling to our veterans and citizens in America to walk hand in
hand and rise to the calling of being responsible citizens and protecting our
great nation. It is time to be our neighbors keeper.'

He ended the post with the hashtags #NeverOutgunned and #AmericaUnited.'

Meyer has often posted about the need for American's to be allowed to carry
guns.

He says on Facebook he has a concealed weapons permit and carries a gun at all
times.

At his home in Campbellsville, Kentucky, a sign outside the driveway leading to
his home shows a M-16 rifle with the words: 'We do not call 911'

He was given the top award after repeatedly charging into a kill zone during a
2009 ambush in Kunar Province, Afghanistan in search of four of his missing
comrades.

Meyer was able to rescue 36 troops and kill eight Taliban attackers despite
being shot in the arms. He was not able to save his four fellow Marines, but
went back and carried their bodies out.

Meyer wrote a book about his exploits called Into the Fire: A Firsthand Account
of the Most Extraordinary Battle in the Afghan War'.

The war hero has been the centre of much gossip after his marriage to Bristol
Palin, the daughter of former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, was
called off a week before the nuptials.

Weeks later 24-year-old Palin announced she was pregnant. She did not confirm
her fiancée Meyer was the father but eluded to him being responsible in a blog
post when she said 'I got ahead of myself.'

Meyer and Palin have not made any public comment on the pregnancy.

THE FULL POSTING ON MEYER'S FACEBOOK PAGE

Just a few hours ago Chattanooga, TN was struck with tragedy as four United
States Marines were shot and killed and one Law Enforcement Office was wounded
in attacks on a Navy/Marine Corps recruiting office and Navy Reserve center.
First and foremost my thoughts and prayers go out to the families those four
Marines left behind. This incident IS an act of domestic terrorism, regardless
of how Washington spins it, regardless of what nationality, color, creed, or
otherwise the shooter was.

This was a planned attack on the United Stated Military on United States soil.
Now is not the time to come out waiving photos of bullet holes in the glass
calling for more gun control and spinning the story to yield a further
separation of peoples in the Unites States. Now is the time for a call on the
American people to finally realize the state of the world we are living in and
the enemy that we face.

Now is the time to call on the American people to ignore the propaganda that
special interest groups have been shoving in our faces and unite as a country so
that we may become our neighbor's keeper. Evil is not just overseas, but also
here at home. Moments after this tragedy had occurred ISIS sent out via Twitter
that they were responsible for the attacks and that the shooter, Muhammad
Youssef Abdulazeez was one of theirs. ISIS said recently that they were coming
to American soil to kill members of the United States Military and now that
threat has come to fruition.

I, for one, do not plan to give away by ability to defend myself and those I
care about. I carry a firearm with me at all times legally under the conceal and
carry laws in the area that I am in. I do not call for a disarming of American
but instead a full institution of the 2nd Amendment so that we may defend
ourselves as a country from all threats, both foreign and domestic. The threat
is here, this is real, and this will not be the end of it.'

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 3:57 PM GMT

Chattanooga terror attack claims FIFTH victim: Sailor and father-of-three, 26,
dies from his injuries after mass shooting

BYLINE: MIA DE GRAAF and ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1884 words



     ·    Randall Smith, 26, died on Saturday, two days after Chattanooga attack
     ·    He was a Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class and a logistics specialist
     ·    The four other victims shot by Mohammad Abdulazeez were Marines
     ·    Smith is survived by his wife and three daughters under the age of 6


A fifth serviceman has died from gunshot wounds two days after the shooting in a
Chattanooga recruitment center.

Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith, 26, passed away in hospital at
2.17am on Saturday, the Navy confirmed.

A logistics specialist, Smith was the fifth victim to succumb to his injuries
after gunman Mohammad Youssuf Abdulazeez opened fire on Thursday afternoon.

He is survived by his wife of four years, Angie Smith, and three daughters under
the age of six.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

The other four victims were US Marines: Lance Cpl Skip Wells, Staff Sgt David
Wyatt, Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan, and Sgt Carson Holmquist. Another Marine
was also wounded.

Smith, who had recently re-enlisted, was shot three times by Abdulazeez.

The terrorist, who was killed by officers at the scene, first fired shots at a
recruitment centre in Chattanooga.

He then drove about six miles to a Navy and Marine reserve centre, where he
killed the four Marines and gravely wounded Smith.

The shooting was finally brought to an end when police officers intervened.
Abdulazeez reportedly rammed the sports car into a gate and then was shot dead
by a police officer.

Father-of-three Smith was rushed into hospital for surgery on Thursday in a
critical condition with bullet wounds in the back, stomach and right shoulder.
The bullets hit his colon and liver, family members told military newspaper
Stars And Stripes.

According to his cousin Tania Daugherty, doctors called Smith's wife on Thursday
and told her to bring their pastor to the hospital.

Authorities are still scrambling to find a motive for the attack, but blog posts
written by Abdulazeez just three days before the attack suggests he may have
become radicalized in his Islamic faith.

In the cryptic posts, Abdulazeez wrote: 'Brothers and sisters don't be fooled by
your desires, this life is short and bitter and the opportunity to submit to
allah may pass you by.'

According to The Daily Beast, he added: 'Take his (Allah's) word as your light
and code and do not let other prisoners, whether they are so called "Scholars"
or even your family members, divert you from the truth. If you make the
intention to follow allahs way 100 per cent and put your desires to the side,
allah will guide you to what is right.'

At a press conference on Friday, authorities said they were investigating the
shootings as an act of terrorism, but the FBI said that Abdulazeez had not been
on their radar or any of their watch lists.

A federal law enforcement official says authorities are continuing to search the
computer belong to the gunman, but as of Friday morning, haven't found an
extensive online presence.

The official says they also haven't uncovered evidence suggesting Abdulazeez was
directly inspired by the Islamic State militant group. But the official says the
review is continuing.

OTHER VICTIMS: FOUR MARINES KILLED IN THE CHATTANOOGA SHOOTING

LANCE CPL SKIP WELLS

Reservist on active duty operational support

Entered service: February 2014

From: Cobb, Georgia

Occupation: Field artillery cannoneer

Lance Cpl Skip Wells had wanted to be a Marine ever since he was a little boy,
his girlfriend Caroline Dove told CNN in an eloquent interview on Friday.

Dove, who had been dating Wells for the past two and a half years, met her
boyfriend while they were both studying history at Georgia State University.

'We were both history majors and there was a connection just right off the bat.
He knew what he had to do to make me happy and I knew what I had to do to make
him happy and we were just compatible,' she said. 'It was great that we worked
out for as long as we did.'

Since joining the military, Dove and Wells had been long-distance while Wells
worked in Tennessee and Dove continued her education in Georgia.

She says the last time she saw her boyfriend was in February and that she had
plans to visit him next week - a dream reunion that will now never happen.

Dove says that her boyfriend was proud to serve his country, and that his one
ambition in life was to be remembered for service.

'I know when we first met, he said, "You know, I'm going to be a Marine. That's
all I really want to do, that's all I know and that's all I love."' Dove
recalled.

Done says Wells spent a lot of time speaking with recruiters about the process
of joining the Marines before he was officially sworn in last year - realizing
his dream career.

Wells officially became a Marine on May 9, 2014, when he graduated from boot
camp.

He beams proudly in pictures from the day on Facebook, embracing his girlfriend
in one picture and beaming proudly next to his parents and mother (who also
served in the Marines, according to friends) in another.

Dove is also an enlisted Marine, just weeks away from boot camp.

While the shooting has no doube been shaking, Dove says it has only strengthened
her resolve to join the military.

'Seeing as this has happened on our soil it has encouraged me to want this even
more and I actually want to live out my life as a Marine and be able to do it
for him because I know that's what he wanted me to do.

'He as truly honest, he was smart, he was loyal - just anything you could
imagine in a good guy and a good Marine.

'I'm gonna miss his funny little quirks...he always knew how to make me laugh,
how to make me smile, how to make me feel better about anything,' Dove said.

Garrett Reed, a longtime friend of Wells who has known him since the fourth
grade, believes he wanted to join the military because of his family's legacy of
service.

'He loves his country, his momma served in the military...I think he just wanted
to follow in her footsteps,' Reed said.

According to pictures posted to Facebook, he had recently returned from a trip
to DisneyWorld with his mother.

Reed said he was shocked when he learned that his childhood friend had been
killed in the terror attack on Thursday

'You hear about this kind of stuff on the news all the time and you just never
think it can happen to one of your friends,' Reed said.

In describing Wells' personality, Reed said: 'He was just a funny guy, real
caring. Just a really nice guy, you just couldn't find a nicer guy than him.'

STAFF SGT DAVID WYATT

Active duty.

From: Burke, North Carolina

Entered service: September 2004

Occupation: Field artillery operations man

Deployments: Afghanistan (October 2010 to May 2011), Iraq (October 2007 to
January 2008)

Staff Sgt David Wyatt lived with his wife and two kids in Hixson, Tennessee -
the same Chattanooga suburb where Abdulazeez grew up with his family.

As FBI agents swarmed the gunman's home on Thursday, mourners began to arrive at
Wyatt's home just six miles down the road.

'There were seven or eight cars there last night. I thought they were having a
party. It didn't go through my mind,' neighbor Antony Madakcherry told the
Tennessean.

Wyatt, originally from Russellville, Arkansas attended university in Montana
before joining the military.

He married his wife Lorri in December 2004, and the couple went on to have two
children - a boy and a girl according to photos posted on Mrs Wyatt's Facebook.

As friends and family wrote their condolences on Facebook Thursday night, Lorri
responded and thanked everyone for their support, writing that her husband had
been 'an amazing father'.

On Friday, a Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy was stationed outside of the
family's home.

GUNNERY SGT THOMAS J SULLIVAN

Active duty

From: Hampden, Massachusetts

Entered service: September 1997

Occupation: Field artillery cannoneer

Deployments: Iraq (September 2007 to April 2008, September 2004 to April 2005)

Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts served two tours of duty in Iraq,
survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple Heart, his family
told  MassLive.

Sullivan's brother Joe is a pub owner in their hometown, and wrote a post on the
bar's website in honor of his fallen sibling after hearing the terrible news.

'He was our hero and he will never be forgotten. Please keep his family &
friends in your thoughts and prayers. Thank you Tommy for protecting us,' the
post reads.

As the family mourns Sullivan's passing, his brother has asked residents in
their community to lower their American flags to half mast.

'There's no Marine you would want that was better in combat than him,'
Sullivan's friend, Josh Parnell, told Patch. 'He'd been shot at so many times
over the years and then for this to happen at home in the United States.'

A woman claiming to be a friend of Sullivan's on Twitter shared a picture of the
sergeant in his uniform next to two Purple Hearts, writing: 'RIP GySgt Thomas
Sullivan, it was an honor knowing you and knowing you're the reason why my mom
would smile.'

Sullivan was one of three children to Jerry and Betty Sullivan and graduated
from Springfield's Cathedral High School before joining the military.

SGT CARSON HOLMQUIST

Active duty

From: Polk, Wisconsin.

Entered service: January 2009

Occupation: Automotive maintenance technician

Deployments: Afghanistan (September 2013 to May 2014)

Sgt Carson Holmquist, a man who just returned from a nearly year-long deployment
last July, was another of the four men tragically killed in Thursday's shooting.

The 27-year-old originally from Grantsburg, Wisconsin leaves behind a wife,
Jasmine, and a 2-year-old son Wyatt.

At the time of his untimely death, Holmquist and his young family were living in
Jacksonville, North Carolina where he was stationed at Camp Lejeune.

While his family has yet to issue a statement on his death, it is very clear
that he was loved.

Pictured posted to Facebook show his wife and toddler son with broad smiles,
welcoming him home from a deployment last July.

In the photos, mother and son wave American flags and hold up posters reading
'Welcome home Daddy!' and 'We've waited 244 days for this moment'.

Friends also paid tribute to the fallen Marine on Facebook, posting kind words
like 'You will be missed bud'.

In the aftermath of the shooting, it was revealed that Abdulazeez was a
naturalized U.S. citizen, born in Kuwait, who moved to America with his family
in 1996. His father was reportedly born in the Palestinian territories, and had
a violent past according to court documents exclusively obtained by
DailyMail.com.

In 2009 Abdulazeez's mother filed for divorce from his father accusing him of
shocking attacks on her and the children.

Youssuf Saed Abdulazeez was accused of physically attacking his wife of 28 years
and sexually assaulting her in front of the children. He also wanted to take a
second wife claiming it was permitted under Islamic law.

The couple ultimately reconciled and stayed together, but the allegations and
court hearings would have no doubt put pressure on the family and their only son
who was in his senior year at high school at the time.

The gunman's father was also put on a terror watch list in the past, but
ultimately cleared.

The investigation allegedly had to do with the father's contributions to a
charity and questions about whether the money was being funneled to fund
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 1:54 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS - Chattanooga terror attack claims FIFTH victim: Sailor and
father-of-three, 26, dies from his injuries after mass shooting

BYLINE: MIA DE GRAAF FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1295 words



     ·    Randall Smith, 26, died on Saturday, two days after Chattanooga attack
     ·    He was a Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class and a logistics specialist
     ·    The four other victims shot by Mohammad Abdulazeez were Marines


A fifth serviceman has died from gunshot wounds two days after the shooting in a
Chattanooga recruitment center.

Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith, 26, passed away in hospital at
2.17am on Saturday, the Navy confirmed.

A logistics specialist, Smith was the fifth victim to succumb to his injuries
after gunman Mohammad Youssuf Abdulazeez opened fire on Thursday afternoon.

He is survived by his wife and three daughters.

The other four victims were US Marines. Another Marine was also wounded.

FOUR MARINES KILLED IN THE CHATTANOOGA SHOOTING

LANCE CPL SKIP WELLS

Reservist on active duty operational support

Entered service: February 2014

From: Cobb, Georgia

Occupation: Field artillery cannoneer

Lance Cpl Skip Wells had wanted to be a Marine ever since he was a little boy,
his girlfriend Caroline Dove told CNN in an eloquent interview on Friday.

Dove, who had been dating Wells for the past two and a half years, met her
boyfriend while they were both studying history at Georgia State University.

'We were both history majors and there was a connection just right off the bat.
He knew what he had to do to make me happy and I knew what I had to do to make
him happy and we were just compatible,' she said. 'It was great that we worked
out for as long as we did.'

Since joining the military, Dove and Wells had been long-distance while Wells
worked in Tennessee and Dove continued her education in Georgia.

She says the last time she saw her boyfriend was in February and that she had
plans to visit him next week - a dream reunion that will now never happen.

Dove says that her boyfriend was proud to serve his country, and that his one
ambition in life was to be remembered for service.

'I know when we first met, he said, "You know, I'm going to be a Marine. That's
all I really want to do, that's all I know and that's all I love."' Dove
recalled.

Done says Wells spent a lot of time speaking with recruiters about the process
of joining the Marines before he was officially sworn in last year - realizing
his dream career.

Wells officially became a Marine on May 9, 2014, when he graduated from boot
camp.

He beams proudly in pictures from the day on Facebook, embracing his girlfriend
in one picture and beaming proudly next to his parents and mother (who also
served in the Marines, according to friends) in another.

Dove is also an enlisted Marine, just weeks away from boot camp.

While the shooting has no doube been shaking, Dove says it has only strengthened
her resolve to join the military.

'Seeing as this has happened on our soil it has encouraged me to want this even
more and I actually want to live out my life as a Marine and be able to do it
for him because I know that's what he wanted me to do.

'He as truly honest, he was smart, he was loyal - just anything you could
imagine in a good guy and a good Marine.

'I'm gonna miss his funny little quirks...he always knew how to make me laugh,
how to make me smile, how to make me feel better about anything,' Dove said.

Garrett Reed, a longtime friend of Wells who has known him since the fourth
grade, believes he wanted to join the military because of his family's legacy of
service.

'He loves his country, his momma served in the military...I think he just wanted
to follow in her footsteps,' Reed said.

According to pictures posted to Facebook, he had recently returned from a trip
to DisneyWorld with his mother.

Reed said he was shocked when he learned that his childhood friend had been
killed in the terror attack on Thursday

'You hear about this kind of stuff on the news all the time and you just never
think it can happen to one of your friends,' Reed said.

In describing Wells' personality, Reed said: 'He was just a funny guy, real
caring. Just a really nice guy, you just couldn't find a nicer guy than him.'

STAFF SGT DAVID WYATT

Active duty.

From: Burke, North Carolina

Entered service: September 2004

Occupation: Field artillery operations man

Deployments: Afghanistan (October 2010 to May 2011), Iraq (October 2007 to
January 2008)

Staff Sgt David Wyatt lived with his wife and two kids in Hixson, Tennessee -
the same Chattanooga suburb where Abdulazeez grew up with his family.

As FBI agents swarmed the gunman's home on Thursday, mourners began to arrive at
Wyatt's home just six miles down the road.

'There were seven or eight cars there last night. I thought they were having a
party. It didn't go through my mind,' neighbor Antony Madakcherry told the
Tennessean.

Wyatt, originally from Russellville, Arkansas attended university in Montana
before joining the military.

He married his wife Lorri in December 2004, and the couple went on to have two
children - a boy and a girl according to photos posted on Mrs Wyatt's Facebook.

As friends and family wrote their condolences on Facebook Thursday night, Lorri
responded and thanked everyone for their support, writing that her husband had
been 'an amazing father'.

On Friday, a Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy was stationed outside of the
family's home.

GUNNERY SGT THOMAS J SULLIVAN

Active duty

From: Hampden, Massachusetts

Entered service: September 1997

Occupation: Field artillery cannoneer

Deployments: Iraq (September 2007 to April 2008, September 2004 to April 2005)

Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts served two tours of duty in Iraq,
survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple Heart, his family
told  MassLive.

Sullivan's brother Joe is a pub owner in their hometown, and wrote a post on the
bar's website in honor of his fallen sibling after hearing the terrible news.

'He was our hero and he will never be forgotten. Please keep his family &
friends in your thoughts and prayers. Thank you Tommy for protecting us,' the
post reads.

As the family mourns Sullivan's passing, his brother has asked residents in
their community to lower their American flags to half mast.

'There's no Marine you would want that was better in combat than him,'
Sullivan's friend, Josh Parnell, told Patch. 'He'd been shot at so many times
over the years and then for this to happen at home in the United States.'

A woman claiming to be a friend of Sullivan's on Twitter shared a picture of the
sergeant in his uniform next to two Purple Hearts, writing: 'RIP GySgt Thomas
Sullivan, it was an honor knowing you and knowing you're the reason why my mom
would smile.'

Sullivan was one of three children to Jerry and Betty Sullivan and graduated
from Springfield's Cathedral High School before joining the military.

SGT CARSON HOLMQUIST

Active duty

From: Polk, Wisconsin.

Entered service: January 2009

Occupation: Automotive maintenance technician

Deployments: Afghanistan (September 2013 to May 2014)

Sgt Carson Holmquist, a man who just returned from a nearly year-long deployment
last July, was another of the four men tragically killed in Thursday's shooting.

The 27-year-old originally from Grantsburg, Wisconsin leaves behind a wife,
Jasmine, and a 2-year-old son Wyatt.

At the time of his untimely death, Holmquist and his young family were living in
Jacksonville, North Carolina where he was stationed at Camp Lejeune.

While his family has yet to issue a statement on his death, it is very clear
that he was loved.

Pictured posted to Facebook show his wife and toddler son with broad smiles,
welcoming him home from a deployment last July.

In the photos, mother and son wave American flags and hold up posters reading
'Welcome home Daddy!' and 'We've waited 244 days for this moment'.

Friends also paid tribute to the fallen Marine on Facebook, posting kind words
like 'You will be missed bud'.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 18, 2015 Saturday 3:20 PM GMT

Chattanooga shootings: Sailor wounded in gunman's terror attack on Tennessee
military facilities dies from wounds;
The death toll now stands at five after gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez
opened fire on two military sites before being killed by cops

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 412 words


A victim of the Tennessee shooting spree has died, taking the death toll to
five.

Sailor Randall Smith, a reservist serving on active duty in Chattanooga, was
confirmed to have died by Navy officials today.

His injuries were inflicted by Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez who opened fire on
two military facilities in the city on Thursday and killed four US marines,
before being killed himself by police.

The other four victims were identified as Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan, of
Hampden, Massachusetts; Staff Sgt David A Wyatt, of Burke, North Carolina; Sgt
Carson A Holmquist, of Polk, Wisconsin; and Lance Cpl Squire K "Skip" Wells, of
Cobb County, Georgia.

Abdulazeez sprayed dozens of bullets at a military recruiting centre in
Chattanooga, then drove to a Navy-Marine training centre a few miles away and
shot at the installation.

Prosecutors in eastern Tennessee said the attacks by the 24-year-old, born in
Kuwait, are being treated as a terrorism investigation.

Abdulazeez did not appear to have been on the radar of federal authorities
before the bloodshed, but counter-terrorism investigators are taking a deep look
at his online activities and searching for clues to his political views.

Residents in the quiet neighbourhood in Hixson, Tennessee, where Abdulazeez
lived in a two-storey home, said they would see him walking along the wide
streets or doing yard work.

One neighbour recalled Abdulazeez giving him a ride home when he was stranded in
a snowstorm.

"It's kind of a general consensus from people that interacted with him that he
was just your average citizen there in the neighbourhood. There was no reason to
suspect anything otherwise," said Ken Smith, a city council official.

Abdulazeez graduated from Red Bank High School in Chattanooga, where he was on
the wrestling team.

He got an engineering degree from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga in
2012 and worked as an intern a few years ago at the Tennessee Valley Authority,
the federally owned utility that operates power plants and dams across the
South.

For the last three months, he had been working at Superior Essex, which designs
and makes wire and cable products.

In April, he was arrested on a drink-driving charge, and a mugshot showed him
with a bushy beard.

A federal law enforcement official said authorities were searching Abdulazeez's
computer but had not found an extensive online presence and had not uncovered
any evidence he was directly influenced by Islamic State.

Chatanooga gun attack

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Everything the bombers tried to destroy they made stronger';
FEATURE ; Daniel Biddle, the most badly injured of those who survived the 7/7
terrorist attack, says rage he felt towards the bombers galvanised him to return
to work, remarry and move to Wales. He told Abbie Wightwick his story

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 770 words


ISTING the sequence of events that led him to being on the London tube train
blown up by Mohammad Sidique Khan on July 7 2005, Daniel Biddle is matter of
fact.

LDaniel, then 26, lost both legs, an eye and his spleen in the terrorist blast
on the Circle Line at Edgware Road, which also left him with PTSD, burns and
totally deaf in one ear.

Suffering three cardiac arrests as doctors battled to save him, he also had a
collapsed lung, multiple internal injuries, MRSA - and centuries-old infections
which had lain dormant underground until getting into his wounds as he lay
injured on the tube track.

At one stage two microbiologists worked around the clock to determine the nature
of these infections, which they later found out had not been recorded for some
200 years.

Fully conscious throughout his rescue and immediately afterwards, the former
construction project manager spent a year in hospital, including eight weeks in
a coma and 12 in intensive care. Undergoing more than 60 operations, he was told
several times he might not make it. But he did.

Ten years on, having just returned from memorial events in London, Daniel, who
says the sight of Edgware Road station made him physically sick, decided to
speak about 7/7 for the last time, keen to get on with his new life in Wales,
where he works to improve disabled access through his new company.

Although a chain of chance happenings led him to stand inches from Khan when he
detonated his bomb, equally random events led him to get immdiate aid - and
finally led him to meet his wife Gem two years ago.

"The day of 7/7 I woke up with a migraine, decided to go to work, but was 90
minutes late. Burst water mains held up my bus, then I was delayed buying a
travel card. I changed my normal route because of signal failure and when I got
to Liverpool Street the tube was so full I waited for the next one," he recalls
ruefully.

Getting the next train, Daniel missed his stop at Baker Street because he was
texting work, so was still on board when he saw Khan detonate his device in the
carriage near Edgware Road. The first of four bombs which killed 56 people that
day, including four bombers, the blast flung Daniel through the doors into the
wall and under the train.

"There was a blinding white light. I thought I'd fallen from the train and been
electrocuted. I realised I was in a bad shape. I could see the devastation,
people dead and injured, and started screaming."

On the other side of the track, combat medic Adrian Heili heard his cries.
Risking his own life crawling over the tracks, Adrian saved Daniel's life by
pinching the torn artery in the stump where his left leg had been. A decade on,
Daniel remains close to Adrian, who he describes as "like a brother".

"I would not be here without him. If I had back luck before I reached Edgware
Road, I got lucky straight afterwards."

He says the same luck led him to meet his wife Gem, from Abergavenny. Gem, who
had never heard of Daniel, sent him a friend request on Facebook by mistake in
2009. He accepted "because she was gorgeous", but the two never messaged
directly until Gem posted about her daughter having a minor accident two years
ago. Daniel responded, they struck up an online conversation that led to them
meeting, falling in love and eventually marrying last year in Abergavenny, where
they now live.

"I love living in Wales," says Daniel, originally from East London. "It's
beautiful and a very relaxing place to be. I will never live in London again"
Inspired by Gem to launch Nationwide Access Consultants Ltd, Daniel advises
companies on disabled access and has worked with Asda, Sainsbury's, Hilton
Worldwide and the Department for Work & Pensions, among others.

The couple also run the Facebook group Accessible Abergavenny to improve
accessibility in the town and raise awareness among businesses of their legal
obligations to the disabled.

Daniel says a determination not to let the bombers win helped him return to
work, deal with life in a wheelchair and eventually marry Gem after his first
marriage failed.

However, Daniel still battles PTSD and at one point suffered a nervous breakdown
and tried to take his own life.

"I did feel rage. I don't understand how that guy got on a train with people he
didn't know, whose faiths and political beliefs he didn't know, with the goal of
killing them. "Just because he's dead does not mean it ends. I will hate

that man for the rest of my days. "I lived, that was the chance I had. I
witnessed people die in the most awful way. If I don't do something positive
what's the point being here? Everything the bomber tried to destroy he made
stronger."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday

Nigerian Islamic leader condemns terror attacks in Gombe, Yobe states

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report by Muhammad Sabiu entitled "Gombe, Yobe attacks wicked and
anti-Islam - JNI" published by website of privately-owned daily Nigerian Tribune
(www.tribune.com.ng) on 19 July

Kaduna: The Jama'atu Nasril Islam(JNI) under the guidance of the Sultan of
Sokoto has described the bomb explosions that rocked the Gombe Central Market ,
on Thursday [16 July], and the Id praying ground in Damaturu, on Friday, as
wicked and anti-Islam.

This was contained in a press statement issued to newsmen in Kaduna by the
Secretary General of JNI, Alhaji Khalid Abubakar Aliyu.

'These evil and wicked massacres are coming few days after similar acts had
occurred in various parts of the country.

"These continued savage attacks stand condemned in their entirety. Indeed those
carrying out such acts are devils and whatever is their mission, may it be in
futility and they be put to shame.

According to the statement, the following questions agitate discerning minds:
who really are the evil masterminds of this serialised wickedness? What are the
motives behind their actions? Who are their sponsors? Who are those used as
guinea pigs in carrying out the dastardly acts? How are they conscripted? Why
are Nigerian Muslims kept clueless as to what is happening and by extension
other citizens of the country?

"As Muslims, we find solace that there is the day of requital which all souls
shall account for their deeds. If not so, how can we be subdued to unnecessary
pains and sorrows in a moment of joy like Id-al-Fitr.

Nonetheless, the statement read "Government must be seen to act proactively so
as to put a stop to this recreant acts."

It further commiserated with the Gombe and Yobe State governments, the Emirs of
Gombe and Damaturu, the families of the victims of these inhuman attacks.

"We pray Almighty Allah would grant all the deceased forgiveness and mercy,
while those that sustained injuries quick recovery," it stated.

Source: Nigerian Tribune website, Ibadan, in English 19 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday

Egypt denounces "terrorist" attacks in Algeria - official

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 18 July: Egypt condemned on Saturday [18 July] the terrorist attack that
killed at least 11 Algerian soldiers in the Ain Defla area, Algiers.

In a statement, spokesman for the Foreign Ministry Badr Abd-al-Ati expressed
Egypt's support to the Algerian people in fighting terror groups.

Abd-al-Ati offered condolence for the families of the soldiers.

He stressed urgency of cooperation among states affected by terrorism to
maintain safety and security of people.

On Thursday, the soldiers were killed in an ambush set up by unknown gunmen in
the Ain Defla area west of the capital Algiers.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2116gmt 18 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday

Egypt's Al-Azhar condemns North Sinai "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 19 July: Al-Azhar [the highest Sunni establishment in the world]
condemned on Sunday [19 July] the terrorist attack that targeted an army
checkpoint in North Sinai Saturday, killing three servicemen and wounding six
others.

In a statement released on Sunday, Al-Azhar called for intensifying regional and
international efforts to firmly uproot terrorism which has become a world
phenomenon.

Islam has nothing to do with such terrorist acts, which have recently hit many
countries, the statement read.

It further called for cutting off financial aid to terrorist groups.

The Armed Forces and police are capable of protecting the Egyptian people
against this imminent danger, the statement said.

Army spokesman Brig Muhammad Samir said Saturday three soldiers were killed when
a stray shell landed near a checkpoint in Al-Shaykh Zuwayid, North Sinai.

Samir added two four-wheel pickups were damaged and a number of terrorists were
killed.

The army, in coordination with police, is intensifying operations in the Sinai
Peninsula to uproot terrorism in Egypt.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1140gmt 19 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 19, 2015 Sunday 7:29 AM GMT

ISIS set up stronghold in the heart of Europe as terrorists secretly buy land
near an isolated village;
Security services think the area in Bosnia is used for ISIS training camps and
could be a base for devastating terror attacks on the West

BYLINE: By Patrick Hill

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 931 words


Islamic State have established a stronghold in mainland Europe, a Sunday Mirror
investigation reveals.

Terrorists are secretly buying land in an isolated village, surrounded by deep
woodland.

Security services think the area in Bosnia is used for ISIS training camps and
could be a base for devastating terror attacks on the West.

Crucially, the location gives IS a key strategic position due to its proximity
to the Mediterranean which is used by extremists from Syria, Iraq and North
Africa.

At least 12 ISIS fighters trained in the village of Osve have left for Syria in
recent months and five are reported to be dead.

Terror expert Dzevad Galijasevic said: "From this village a large number of
people went to Syria and are going constantly.

"The chosen location of some of the properties is on a hill, where there is no
possibility to approach without being seen. It is clear that the source of the
terrorist threat is right there. It is a major threat.

"There is no one there who isn't ready to respond to the summons to jihad."

We visited the hilltop village 60 miles from Sarajevo and six miles from the
town of Maglaj afternoon.

It is not mapped by GPS and is only accessible by steep and winding roads barely
wide enough for cars to pass.

A number of houses there appear to have been abandoned or only half built and it
is not overlooked by any other settlement.

A number of villagers wore Islamic-style clothing, including two women wearing
burkas.

Our guide - our driver and translator - said we were being watched and it was
too dangerous to photograph them.

Clearly worried, the dad-of-one said: "We should leave now - our presence here
is beginning to cause suspicion. This is a beautiful place but is incredibly
dangerous.

"You cannot underestimate the possible threat here. If they see the camera all
hell will break loose."

It is understood that notorious ISIS supporter Harun Mehicevic is among fanatics
who bought land in the area. He has purchased two hectares.

Mehicevic fled Bosnia during the 1990s Balkan wars and settled in Melbourne,
Australia, where he is considered one of the country's most dangerous men.

In one ranting sermon, he reportedly told an audience of potential recruits:
"Allah will help the mujahideen (holy warriors) establish an Islamic State where
Muslims can live with dignity and honour."

Other known terrorists believed to have bought land in the village include Jasin
Rizvic and Osman Kekic, who are both now fighting with ISIS in Syria.

Muslim leader Izet Hadzic - arrested by Bosnia' and Herzegovina's security
service Sipa in a raid - is also understood to have property in the village, as
have many others who have gone to fight in Syria and Iraq.

One villager told our investigators that locals fear the area is a "nest for
terrorists".

The man, who does not want to be named, said: "We regularly hear gunshots coming
from the woods up there for long periods at a time. It happens every week.

"I don't know what they are doing, whether it is target practice or something
like that, but it happens regularly.

Footage from 2014 purports to show Bosnian children training with ISIS in Syria

"It is really concerning to hear such notorious members of ISIS are buying land.
They keep themselves to themselves but it is better not to ask questions.

"It worries me that I am bringing up my children here. Now could be time to move
out but it is not so easy to sell."

Bosnia is an ideal position for jihadis travelling illegally from Syria to
Greece, via Turkey, and then through Macedonia and Serbia.

Guns and other weapons are easier to obtain in Bosnia than in other parts of
Europe due to illegal ownership following the conflicts of the 1990s.

Five months ago, anti-terror cops raided the village of Gornja Maoca in the
north of the country following reports of houses flying the ISIS flag.

The area is home to followers of the strict Sunni Islam Wahhabi movement. It has
been raided by police several times over the past decade due to suspected links
with radical groups.

A report on jihadism in Bosnia said: "Returning foreign fighters from Syria and
Iraq - battle-hardened, skilled in handling arms and explosives, and
ideologically radicalised - pose a direct threat not only to the security of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also of the region and beyond."

The report, The Lure of the Syrian War: The Foreign Fighters' Bosnian
Contingent, said that between 2013 and 2014, 156 Bosnian men and 36 women
travelled to Syria, taking 25 children with them.

It said 48 men and three women had officially returned by last January.

The authors, Sarajevo University associate political science professor Vlado
Azinovic and Islamic theologian Muhamed Jusic, also found that Bosnia was
ill-prepared to deal with the threat.

The report said: "There is a lack of co-ordination between local law-enforcement
agencies on (foreign fighter) issues."

Kristina Jozic of security service Sipa said: "The return of individuals
participating in the conflict in Syria, fighting with ISIS, is undoubtedly a
security challenge and a threat, the extent of which is hard to determine."

She said: "Sipa continuously performs checks of all allegations that can be
linked to terrorist activities in any way, whether that is financing, recruiting
or other activities related to terrorism."

She added that the village is under surveillance following a police raid in May.

Director of the Centre for Security Studies in the Bosnian capital Sarajevo,
Armin Krzalic, said: "Bosnians who went to fight for Islamic State will be
treated as a threat to security upon their return whether they have land here or
not."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

RAF joins battle to halt terrorist missile attacks on commercial aircraft

BYLINE: Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 406 words


RAF personnel are training foreign governments in how to prevent airliners being
shot down by shoulder-launched missiles, amid fears that stockpiles of the
weapons have fallen into the hands of www.terrorists.UK government officials
estimate that up to 10,000 portable, ground-to-air missile systems, known as
"manpads", went missing from Libyan arms bunkers after the 2011 revolution. The
proliferation of such weapons, which can hit aircraft flying below 20,000ft, has
also been fuelled by the Syrian civil war.

Ministers have been warned that it is "too late" to control the distribution of
the missiles, some of which are believed to have been seized by militant groups,
including Isis.

It has now emerged that teams of British experts have been helping to improve
security at foreign airports, with training courses on how to reduce the risk of
terrorists shooting down an aircraft about to land or take off.

The training, which last year centred on airports in Africa, has been provided
by troops from the RAF Regiment. Although the nature of the training has not
been disclosed, the regiment comprises ground troops who patrol UK military
airfields.

The "counter manpads team" is overseen by the Department for Transport (DfT) and
also includes experts from the Metropolitan police and British Airways. The
team's activities were disclosed last week by Clive Wright, head of
international strategy in DfT's aviation security division.

"We need to offer assurance to ministers that overseas we are mitigating risks
successfully so that UK carriers can continue to fly into those airports and
foreign carriers from those airports can continue to fly into the UK," Wright
told a conference held by the Royal United Services Institute, a defence think
tank. DfT-led teams have also trained foreign airport staff in how to use
explosive detection machines and body scanners as well as how to conduct "pat
down" searches of passengers.

About 75 security training courses have been provided in 30 countries to more
than 1,600 security staff in the past four years. As well as Africa, Gulf states
were the focus of training last year.

Last week, an Isis-affiliated militant group based in Egypt claimed it used a
"guided missile" to attack an Egyptian navy ship in the Mediterranean.

Weapons have been smuggled from Libya and Syria to terror hotspots across Africa
launched Shoulderlaunched missiles can shoot down airliners flying below
20,000ft

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                        July 20, 2015 Monday 4:33 PM GMT

EU Vows Greater Support For Tunisia In Wake Of Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 475 words


BRUSSELS (Alliance News) - The EU pledged Monday to step up its security and
economic assistance for Tunisia, as the country continues to reel from a pair of
deadly terrorist attack targetting tourists.

"Tunisia is the country that is taking a stand against the authoritarian and
radical tendencies in the region with strength, courage, perseverance," German
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said. "We all have an interest in the
Tunisian example not only surviving, but living and evolving."

"Tunisians are determined to defend their societal model," the country's prime
minister, Habib Essid, said during a visit to Brussels. "Thanks to this [EU]
support and this close collaboration, we will be able to get past this difficult
transition phase."

Tunisia is widely seen as the sole success story of the wave of popular
uprisings that swept across the Arab region in 2011.

The tourism industry is one of the key employers in the country, but it has been
severely affected by the killings last month of 38 tourists in Sousse, as well
as a March attack on the capital's Bardo museum, in which 21 tourists were
killed.

Both attacks were claimed by the Islamic State extremist group, which has taken
root in neighbouring Libya thanks to a conflict between rival governments.

One of the ideas the EU is looking at ways to help the country secure its
borders.

Better controls on the border between Libya and Tunisia are "crucial,"
Steinmeier said, noting that its more than 600 kilometres are "largely
uncontrolled."

EU foreign ministers on Monday tasked their bloc's foreign policy chief,
Federica Mogherini, with quickly submitting proposals on actions in Tunisia such
as supporting border protection, protecting the tourism sector and preventing
radicalization. Steinmeier spoke of the possibility of an advisory EU mission.

"We discussed today ways to go further and mobilize the expertise of all our
member states to benefit Tunisia," Mogherini said after a meeting between Essid
and the 28 EU foreign ministers.

Tunisia will also be granted faster access to 23 million euros (25 million
dollars) that had been earmarked for security sector reforms next year.

The two sides additionally discussed ways of helping to support the tourism
sector and shoring up the Tunisian economy as a whole.

Proposals have for instance been prepared that would allow Tunisia to
temporarily export more olive oil to the EU, Mogherini said. She also pointed to
the start of free trade negotiations between the two sides - foreseen for
October - as a "very positive signal."

"The EU is working up a substantial package of economic and political support
for Tunisia to show that we stand with the Tunisian people as they resist this
attempt by [the Islamic State] to undermine their new democracy and their
economy," British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

Bahrain condemns Iraqi terrorist attack

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Bahrain has strongly condemned the terrorist explosion which targeted a
traditional market in the province of Diyala in Iraq on Friday, leaving dozens
of innocent people dead and injured.

In a statement, the Foreign Ministry denounced the terrorist blast which flouts
all human and ethical values and contravenes religions that advocate the
protection of human lives.

The ministry extended deepest condolences to the victims' bereaved families,
wishing the injured quick recovery. It also stressed Bahrain's full solidarity
with the Government and people of Iraq, reiterating support to all efforts aimed
to achieve security and maintain stability in Iraq.

The ministry affirmed Bahrain's rejection of terrorism, regardless of its
motives or justifications, urging the intensification of international efforts
to eradicate terrorism and rid the world of this evil scourge.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 0650 gmt 20 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

Russian president offers condolences to Turkey over terror attack

LENGTH: 124 words


Text of report in English by Russian presidential website on 20 July

Condolences to President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan

July 20, 2015

Vladimir Putin offered his condolences to President of Turkey Recep Tayyip
Erdogan over the many dead and injured following a terrorist attack in southeast
Turkey.

In his message of condolences, the President of Russia firmly condemned this
barbaric crime and stressed that the fight against terrorism requires vigorous
concerted efforts by the entire international community.

Mr Putin passed on his words of sympathy and support to the victims' families
and wished a swift recovery to all who were injured in the attack.

Source: President of the Russian Federation website, Moscow, in English 1430 gmt
20 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        July 20, 2015 Monday 7:21 AM GMT

Lurgan Residents want terror attacks to stop

BYLINE: By Nevin Farrell

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 259 words


Residents in Lurgan say the vast majority of people in the town want an end to
dissident republican attacks on police and want their children to be able to
grow up in peace.

That was the reaction last night following a weekend bomb attack aimed at the
security forces in Victoria Street.

The attack happened at a stretch of waste ground where young people often gather
on the edge of the mainly republican Kilwilkee estate, where large letters spell
out 'IRA' and many parts of the streets are painted green, white and orange.

But further down Victoria Street and past a graveyard there are no markings on
the footpaths beside terraced houses. And at the opposite end of the road many
migrant workers have made it their home.

Resident Christopher McArdle (36) said: "It is bad - with kids running about
here, they could have been walking past that device, including my own children."

Another Victoria Street resident said he had to leave his home during the alert
and stayed with his mother. "Where this happened a lot of young ones hang about
in the wasteland because there are two derelict houses there," he said.

"The vast majority do not agree with it. I thought these days were behind us." A
man out for a walk with his grandson said that "95% of people do not agree with
this".

"We don't want to bring up children with trouble," he added.

Peter Miller (25) from Portadown was passing through the town and said such
violent incidents would not put him off coming to Lurgan.

"Everybody in my age group anyway are happy enough to go about their lives," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              July 20, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Residents want terror attacks to stop

BYLINE: NEVIN FARRELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words


RESIDENTS in Lurgan say the vast majority of people in the town want an end to
dissident republican attacks on police and want their children to be able to
grow up in peace.

That was the reaction last night following a weekend bomb attack aimed at the
security forces in Victoria Street.

The attack happened at a stretch of waste ground where young people often gather
on the edge of the mainly republican Kilwilkee estate, where large letters spell
out 'IRA' and many parts of the streets are painted green, white and orange.

But further down Victoria Street and past a graveyard there are no markings on
the footpaths beside terraced houses. And at the opposite end of the road many
migrant workers have made it their home.

Resident Christopher McArdle (36) said: "It is bad - with kids running about
here, they could have been walking past that device, including my own children."
Another Victoria Street resident said he had to leave his home during the alert
and stayed with his mother. "Where this happened a lot of young ones hang about
in the wasteland because there are two derelict houses there," he said.

"The vast majority do not agree with it. I thought these days were behind us." A
man out for a walk with his grandson said that "95% of people do not agree with
this".

"We don't want to bring up children with trouble," he added.

Peter Miller (25) from Portadown was passing through the town and said such
violent incidents would not put him off coming to Lurgan.

"Everybody in my age group anyway are happy enough to go about their lives," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

UN chief condemns terrorist attacks that killed 60 people in northeast Nigeria

LENGTH: 201 words


United Nations Secretary-General Bank Ki-moon today condemned the terrorist
attacks that killed over 60 people in the towns of Gombe and Damaturu, in
northeast Nigeria over the last two days.



"These heinous crimes came as the victims, along with Nigerians nationwide, were
conducting Eid prayers, a sacred time for families and communities to come
together. As such, the attacks constitute an assault on the beliefs of all
people," said the UN Spokesperson in a statement issued this afternoon.

Mr. Ban offered his condolences to the families and loved ones of the deceased,
wishing a speedy recovery to the injured.

"The Secretary-General reaffirms his solidarity with the people of Nigeria and
reiterates the UN's support for the Nigerian government in its fight against
terrorism, while upholding human rights," adds the statement.

According to the media, explosive devices were detonated today outside two sites
where Muslims worshippers were gathering for prayers in the town of Damaturu. At
least 12 people were killed in the blasts. Yesterday, two simultaneous bombings
hit a market in the city of Gombe, killing at least 48 people and injuring many
others.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        July 20, 2015 Monday 6:55 PM GMT

Mother of surfer who fought off shark describes her terror at watching attack;
Elizabeth Osborne watched in horror from her home in Australia as her son Mick
Fanning was shown on TV desperately trying to escape from shark

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 857 words


The mother of a surfer who fought off a shark has vividly described how her
terror turned to relief as she watched his escape on live television.

The footage of a giant fin, believed to be that of a great white, closing in on
Mick Fanning as he competed off the coast of South Africa has become an internet
sensation.

The three-time world champion punched the shark on its back and used his board
as a shield but was then hidden from view by a wave that left his mother,
Elizabeth Osborne, agonised in her living room thousands of miles away in
Australia.

"It was absolutely terrifying," she told the country's broadcaster ABC on
Monday. "I actually got up and walked across to the television because I just
couldn't believe what I was seeing and I thought we'd lost him. I went over to
the television almost as though I could pull him out of the television. I just
wanted to save him really, but there was nothing I could do."

I just wanted to save him really, but there was nothing I could do. It was just
terrible

Elizabeth Osborne

Osborne added: "I was so scared. I just thought when that wave came through that
he'd gone."

She said she was sure her late son, Sean, who died in a car crash about 17 years
ago, was looking out for his brother. "It's the worst thing I've ever seen
happen to any of my family because it was just there in front of me," Osborne
continued. "When Sean was killed in the car accident, I didn't see it. I saw
this just in front of me. It was just terrible."

Fanning, 34, was competing in Sunday's final of the J-Bay Open surf competition
in Jeffreys Bay in South Africa's Eastern Cape province. He was dragged from his
board as the shark severed his leg rope while he tried to paddle away.
Spectators screamed from the beach and TV commentators were stunned, but Fanning
re-emerged and was plucked to safety by rescue teams without injury.

Osborne said she was proud of her son: "We always say in our family, 'We never
give up and we never give in'. And he didn't. He's such a fighter. I'm just so
thankful and so proud of Mick and so grateful to the universe that he didn't
have a leg missing."

Osborne said her son - who admitted he was "tripping out" after the close
encounter and would be happy to "never compete again" - needs time to process
what had happened and it would be up to him to decide on his future.

She added that she would be always be grateful to fellow Australian Julian
Wilson, who paddled towards Fanning when he realised he was in trouble. "They
are just such great friends and Julian is such a beautiful boy. Everybody was
just so scared for Mick.

"I can't believe that that shark thought, oh no, no I'm not going to do anything
here, I'm going. I just thank the shark very much for just disappearing."

Wilson was tearful after the incident. He told the Australian Associated Press:
"It came up and he was wrestling it, and I saw he got knocked off his board. I
was like, 'I've got a board, if I can get there I can stab it or whatever, I've
got a weapon'."

The World Surf League cancelled the rest of the event, with Wilson and Fanning
both agreeing to take second place in the competition. The prize money for first
place was also split between the pair.

The incident triggered a cascade of internet spoofs including photoshopped
images of Fanning wrestling, boxing and surfing on top of the shark. Eleven-time
world champion surfer Kelly Slater expressed his relief on Instagram that
Fanning survived the ordeal. "Glad to know this guy and even happier that he
swam/walked away unscathed," he wrote. "The only mark on him is a tiny scratch
(probably from hitting the shark) on his left-hand knuckle.

"The scariest moment was when he turned around to face where the shark would be
coming from after swimming 20 meters towards shore. I can't even imagine the
vulnerability he must've felt."

Fanning began his journey home to Australia's Gold Coast and the World Surf
League commissioner, Kieren Perrow, said it was unclear whether he would compete
at the next tour event in Tahiti starting on 14 August.

"It's probably the last thing on his mind," he told the AAP. "He wants to get
back and spend time with his family and then they'll make a decision after that.

"Mick's a really strong guy and a great person and he'll probably be able, after
he's had some time to get through the emotion and the whole situation, he'll
re-evaluate and decide what to do."

Perrow said a decision on the future of the Jeffreys Bay event was a debate for
another time. It is not the only location on the tour with a reputation for
sharks.

"Being able to have a solution that not just works here but everywhere would be
pretty incredible," he added. "We'll spend some time doing that and then review
what it means for the future."

The Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, himself a surfer, said: "It's just
terrifying to think that such a large shark could be so close to a surfing
contest and I bet Mick Fanning is one hell of a relieved surfer. I think all of
us, we go out into the waves and we love to see dolphin fins but if there's any
doubt about what kind of a fin it is, it's pretty scary."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

Deaths abroad on rise as terror levels climb and violent attacks grow more
frequent

BYLINE: By Richard Wheeler, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 212 words


AN INCREASING number of Britons have been killed overseas, official figures
suggest, with more than 400 deaths since 2010.

The Tunisian terror attack, in which 30 British nationals died, means 2015 could
be the bloodiest in recent years, says the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
(FCO).

The department said it           has provided assistance in 67 cases recorded as
murder and manslaughter this year, which includes last month's gun attack in the
beach resort of Sousse resort.

Travel advice to Tunisia was changed after the atrocity, resulting in British
tourists being advised to return to the UK as a terrorist attack was judged to
be "highly likely".

The FCO said the deaths in 2015 have taken place in 22 countries, including
Afghanistan, Brazil, Denmark, South Sudan and the US.

In 2010, FCO officials were involved in 46 cases, 70 in 2011, 59 in 2012, 76 in
2013 and 89 in 2014.

The department established a new unit focused on murder and manslaughter cases
in January after a review into the support provided to bereaved families and
friends was conducted last year.

The data, which represents the number of killings that have come to the FCO's
attention rather than all overseas deaths, emerged in parliament after Labour MP
Alex Cunningham submitted a written question.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 20, 2015 Monday 11:01 AM GMT

Isis blamed for Gaza City bomb attacks;
Four car bombs were detonated on Sunday morning in the latest attack on Gaza by
the terrorist group

BYLINE: Caroline Mortimer

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 146 words


Isis has been linked to at least four bombings that ripped through Gaza City,
targeting cars belonging to key Hamas officials.

No one was killed in the attacks outside the homes of local officials in Gaza
City's Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood but an official from a nearby hospital said a
young woman and a man were slightly injured.

There was no claim of responsibility but witnesses reported seeing a freshly
painted Islamic State flag at the site of the explosions.

Isis has stepped up its attacks on the ruling faction Hamas in recent months
after it launched a fierce crackdown on alleged supporters of the terrorist
group.

Earlier this month, ISIS released a propaganda video where they threaten to
overthrow Hamas because they were preoccupied by nationalistic and secular
concerns and were not extreme enough.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                              July 20, 2015 Monday

RAF to train foreign governments to prevent terrorist missile attacks on
airliners

SECTION: AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE; Industry Updates

LENGTH: 274 words



HIGHLIGHT: The UK's Royal Air Force (RAF) personnel have been reportedly
training foreign governments to help prevent or reduce the risk of terrorist
missile attacks on airliners.


The UK's Royal Air Force (RAF) personnel have been reportedly training foreign
governments to help prevent or reduce the risk of terrorist missile attacks on
airliners.

The aerial warfare force has sent its experts to North Africa and the Middle
East to train to prevent terrorist strikes on airliners.

More than 1,600 security staff in 30 different countries have been trained in
the last four years. Foreign airport staff were also taught how to search
passengers in order to prevent them smuggling weapons and explosive materials.

The training also focused on the use of scanners and detectors as well as how to
frisk passengers.

It estimated that approximately 10,000 portable, surface-to-air missile systems
were missing from Libyan arms bunkers following the 2011 revolution. They are
capable of hitting aircraft flying beneath 20,000ft.

This development has come to light after an Isis-affiliated militant group
claimed a recent missile attack an Egyptian Navy ship in Egypt's Sinai region.

DfT aviation security division head of international strategy Clive Wright said:
"We need to offer assurance to ministers that overseas we are mitigating risks
successfully so that UK carriers can continue to fly into those airports and
foreign carriers from those airports can continue to fly into the UK."

A UK Government spokeswoman was quoted by the Telegraph as saying: "We have a
long-standing policy of advising other governments on security matters."

According to the Sunday Times, the UK Department for Transport (DfT), along with
specialists from Scotland Yard and British Airways currently oversees the
'counter Manpads team' regiment.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                        July 20, 2015 Monday 6:16 AM GMT

'Terrorist' bomb attack kills 30 in Turkey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words



HIGHLIGHT: 30 killed in Turkey bomb attack


At least 30 people, mostly young students, were killed in a Turkish town near
the Syrian border today in what authorities said was a "terrorist" bomb attack.

Officials said it appeared to be a suicide bomb attack mounted by self-styled
Islamic State militants.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said Turkey will increase security measures along
its border after the attack.

Television footage showed bodies lying beneath trees outside a cultural centre
in the mostly Kurdish town of Suruc in southeastern Turkey, around 10km from the
Syrian town of Kobani, where Kurdish fighters have been battling the IS.

The blast tore through a group of mostly university-aged students from an
activist group as they gathered to make a statement to the local press about a
trip they were planning to help rebuild Kobani.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 20, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tunisia terrorist attack victims may sue hotels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 121 words


Survivors of the terrorist attack in Tunisia last month are considering suing
tour operators and hotel owners at the resort where 30 Britons were murdered
(Zachary Spiro writes).

Lawyers from Irwin Mitchell representing nine victims of the attack have been
instructed to investigate the massacre. Seifeddine Rezgui, armed with a
Kalashnikov rifle, home-made bombs and grenades, killed 38 tourists. Neil
Murray, whose daughter, Kirsty Murray, 25, survived the attack, told The Sunday
Telegraph: "I feel there are unanswered questions about the security in and
around the area. That close to Libya and Algeria, I'd have thought security
would be much tighter." The Foreign Office advises against "all but essential
travel" to Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 20, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tunisia terrorist attack victims may sue hotels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 83 words


Survivors of last month's terrorist attack in Tunisia, in which 30 Britons were
murdered, are considering suing tour operators and hotel owners at the resort
(Zachary Spiro writes). Lawyers from Irwin Mitchell representing nine victims
have been instructed to investigate. Neil Murray, whose daughter, Kirsty Murray,
25, survived the massacre, told The Sunday Telegraph: "I feel there are
unanswered questions about the security." The Foreign Office advises against all
but essential travel to Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Romanian foreign ministry condemns Turkey terror attack

LENGTH: 249 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Foreign Ministry Condemns Terrorist Attack in Turkey"]

Bucharest, July 21 (Agerpres) - Romania's Ministry of Foreign Affairs firmly
condemns the terrorist attack that took place on Monday [20 July] at a cultural
centre in the Turkish district of Suruc and sends condolences to the families of
victims and their entire compassion for the persons injured in this tragic
event.

"We are solidary with Turkey, a strategic partner of Romania, and we support the
efforts of the Turkish authorities in their fight against terrorism," Foreign
Minister Bogdan Aurescu is quoted as saying in a press statement released to
AGERPRES.

As many as 28 persons were killed and nearly 100 injured in a powerful blast
that happened on Monday at a cultural centre in the Turkish district of Suruc,
near the border with Syria, yet the death toll may rise, said the Turkish
Ministry of Internal Affairs, as quoted by Reuters and Anadolu.

Suruc is a district in southeastern Turkey, 10 km away from the Syrian town of
Kobane.

The blast occurred as Kurdish and Turkish youths were gathered at the cultural
centre, from where they were to depart in a trip to Kobane, over the border with
Syria, where Syrian Kurdish forces have liberated the city from Islamic State
insurgents.

According to Turkish officials, the attack was perpetrated by Islamic State
militants.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0547 gmt 21 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

China condemns terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report published by Chinese news agency Xinhua

Beijing, 21 July: China on Tuesday [21 July] condemned a deadly terrorist attack
in Turkey which reportedly killed at least 31 people and injured more than 100.

A bomb targeted a meeting of mostly Kurdish activists in Suruc, a town in
Sanliurfa province in southeast Turkey.

"China strongly condemns any attack targeting innocent people, expresses
condolences to the victims, and sympathizes with the Turkish government,
families of the victims and the wounded," said Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu
Kang in a statement.

"China is resolutely opposed to terrorism in any form, and stands ready to work
with the international community including Turkey to respond to the threats of
terrorism," said the spokesperson.

So far no group has claimed responsibility for the attack. Turkish Prime
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said initial findings pointed to the IS group as the
main suspects.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0951gmt 21 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish paper reports US condemns "heinous terror attack" on Syria border

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 20 July

The United States has strongly condemned the "heinous terrorist attack" in
southern Turkish district of Suruc that claimed the lives of at least 30 people
and wounded 100, many of them youth activists.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest expressed condolences during a daily
press briefing on Monday to families of the victims, many of whom he said had
come to Suruc to assess the reconstruction efforts in Kobani, a key Syrian
border town that had become the symbol of Kurdish resistance against advancing
militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL).

Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said initial findings suggest that the
ISIL terrorists had undertaken the attack in the gathering in Suruc.

"We express our solidarity with the Turkish government and the Turkish people
and reaffirm our undeterred resolve to the fight against the shared threat of
terrorism," Earnest said.

The explosion in Suruc took place at a cultural centre as the Federation of
Socialist Youths was preparing a news conference on plans to rebuild the Syrian
city of Kobani.

"The way the incident took place is clearly an incident of terrorism and most
likely a suicide bombing, savagely (committed) and that we curse," Davutoglu
said, vowing to increase security measures on the border and finding the
perpetrators of the attack.

The attack in Suruc also came days after Turkey had stepped up crackdown on ISIL
militants inside Turkey.

Earnest spoke about "important progress" made against the ISIL in Kurdish
populated areas in the northern Syria, backed by US-led coalition air campaign,
including Kobani where Kurdish militants drove out ISIL militants in a
months-long campaign that received accolades from around the world. He said
Washington condemns this act of violence against individuals who are actually
seeking to go and engage humanitarian efforts on the other side of the Syrian
border.

He noted that the US continues to be mindful of the destabilizing impact of
extremist groups like ISIL in the region - a reason why President Barack Obama
is working with other coalition partners to fight against the group.

Earnest said they have started to see extremist activities in other countries in
the region and huge flow of refugees is one of the destabilizing factors. He
added that it is critical to mobilize other countries in the region in support
of the fight against ISIL and that the president is pleased to have support of
some Middle Eastern countries.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 20 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Bahrain condemns terror attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report by AOQ published in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama, 20 July (BNA): The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strongly condemned
the terrorist attack that occurred recently in Ain Defla in Algeria, and
resulted in a number of deaths and injuries to Algerian soldiers, stressing that
the heinous crime contravenes all human and moral values and all heavenly
religions.

"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs extends its sincere condolences and sympathy to
the families of the martyrs and wishes a speedy recovery to all the injured in
this cowardly terrorist act, stressing solidarity with Algeria in fighting
terrorism and support for all measures taken to ensure citizens' safety and to
boost stability nationwide," the ministry said in a statement.

The ministry added that it "calls for more regional and international efforts to
be exerted to root out all forms of terrorism."

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 1352 gmt 21 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Mideast Arabic press unsympathetic with Turkey after "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 598 words


Middle East Arabic press on 21 July highlights the explosion that targeted the
Turkish town of Suruc, near the Syrian border, and claimed 30 lives.

Several papers, particularly in Syria and Egypt, adopt a tone strongly critical
of the Turkish government, saying that Ankara is "paying the price of supporting
terrorism".

Turkish Premier Ahmet Davutoglu said initial findings suggested the attack was
the work of the Islamic State militant group.

"Share of terrorism"

Syrian government-owned Al-Thawrah says: "As a result of [Turkish President
Recep Tayyip] Erdogan's hosting of terrorist organizations and turning border
towns to sites for smuggling weapons to Da'ish [Arabic acronym for Islamic
State], at least 30 people were killed in a terrorist bombing."

In the same vein, Syrian Al-Ba'th, the mouthpiece of the ruling party, comments:
"Takfiri organizations affiliated to and funded by US-Zionist intelligence
apparatuses, are facing real existential threats. They are trying to... spread
terror in several countries, including those which fund and guide them."

Echoing the same sentiments, Egyptian private, pro-President Abd-al-Fattah
al-Sisi daily Al-Watan headlines: "Turkey swallows savour of terrorism."

In a report entitled "Fire of Da'ish burns Turkey", Egyptian state-run Al-Ahram
stresses that "voices and political forces had accused the government of turning
a blind eye to the presence of extremists affiliated to Da'ish organization on
Turkish soil".

For its part, Egyptian private pro-President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi daily Al-Yawm
al-Sabi quotes a leading figure of the Turkish Democratic Union Party Ibrahim
Ibrahim as accusing the Turkish government, and "particularly President Erdogan,
the Development and Justice Party and intelligence apparatuses of being behind
the terrorist incident".

"Turkey is paying the price of arming Da'ish," says a front-page headline of
Egyptian private Al-Misri al-Yawm.

The paper adopts a seemingly gloating tone, commenting: "Turkish officials said
Da'ish were behind the attack. Turkey is now gaining its share of the terrorism
that it had supported as it allowed foreign fighters to pass through the Turkish
soil and provided them with money and weapons."

Lebanese pan-Arab leftist Al-Safir seems unsympathetic with the Turkish
government. "We will see whether Turkish authorities would take the incident as
a pretext to further attack adjacent Syrian territories," the paper says.

Lebanese Al-Akhbar, the mouthpiece of the Communist Party argues that the
"bombing poses questions on whether Ankara would make security and political
benefits out of the incident", stressing that after the attack, "Ankara has
swiftly tightened its grip on border with Syria".

"Extraordinary violence"

Some papers lament the explosion, adopting a seemingly sympathetic tone.

"Twenty-eight people killed in a massacre in Turkish town," Lebanese private
Al-Anwar says in its headline. The paper describes the attack as the "worst
attack in Turkey since 2013".

On the same theme, Saudi pro-government Al-Madinah indicates that "this is the
first attack by the terrorist organization of Da'ish in Turkey," stressing the
bombing's "extraordinary violent nature".

Qatari pro-government Al-Arab highlights Qatar's "condemnation of the criminal
explosion" in Suruc and pledge to "stand by sisterly state of Turley while
combating terrorism".

Papers in North Africa handle the story factually, e.g. Tunisian private liberal
Alchourouk headlines: "Explosion in Turkey leaves some killed and injured".

Source: Middle East Arabic press review from BBC Monitoring in Arabic 21 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 3:00 PM GMT

Terror plot to attack RAF base thwarted, two men charged

BYLINE: Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 382 words


A MAN has been charged over an alleged plot to attack a US Independence Day
parade at a UK RAF base.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, has also been accused of attempting to join Islamic State
militants in Syria.

His 22-year-old uncle Shazib Ahmed Khan has also been charged with trying to
join the terror organisation.

The Independence Day event was supposed to take place on the weekend of July 4
at RAF Feltwell in Norfolk.

However it was abruptly cancelled two days beforehand after a raised security
threat level.

American nationals from across the country attend the event and the Red Arrows
were due to perform this year.

Deborah Walsh

Prosecutors said the men were charged with the intention of committing acts of
terrorism.

The two men from Luton were arrested last week in an operation involving
officers from the national counter-terrorism network.

Another man, in his 30s, was also detained but was released without charge on
Monday night.

A spokeswoman for RAF Feltwell said: "The cancellation was due to an increased
security threat level and at this point is in connection to the arrests.

"At this time, the arrests are being investigated so we cannot comment further."

Both Junead and Shazib will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court later on
Tuesday.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter-terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "We have concluded that there is sufficient evidence and it is in
the public interest to charge Junead Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention of
committing acts of terrorism.

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant .

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this."

The men have been charged with one offence contrary to the Terrorism Act 2006,
dating between August 1 2014 and May 10 2015.

The additional count Junead Khan faces was between May 10 and July 14 2015.

Related articles Tunisia beach attack widow coming out of coma 'Major threat' as
Islamic State sets up 'nest for terrorists' in EUROPE 'You'll be cannon fodder
if you join ISIS' Cameron warns Brit Muslims

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Mum's terror at watching shark attack

BYLINE: RHIAN LUBIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 117 words


THE mother of surfer Mick Fanning, who fought off a shark with his bare hands on
Sunday, said she was "terrified" of losing another son.

Elizabeth Osborne told of her horror as she watched the 34-year-old world
champion fend off the Great White in South Africa.

She said: "It was absolutely terrifying. I actually got up and walked across to
the television because I couldn't believe what I was seeing.

"I thought we'd lost him."

Ms Osborne, who lost another son in a car crash almost 17 years ago, added:
"When Sean was killed in the car accident, I didn't see it.

"I saw this just in front of me, it was terrible.

"I went to the television almost as though I could pull him out, I just wanted
to save him."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HERO Surfer Mick Fanning

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 4:26 PM GMT

Man arrested over 'terror attack on US military in Britain'

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 454 words


A 24-YEAR-OLD man has been charged over an alleged plot to carry out a terror
attack on American military personnel in Britain.

GETTY

Detectives swooped on the two men in Luton

Junead Ahmed Khan is also accused, along with his uncle, Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22,
of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic State .

Officers from the national counter terrorism network, led by the Met's Counter
Terrorism Command, led the swoop on the two men, both from Luton.

They will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London later today.

Scotland Yard said the arrests were part of an ongoing investigation into
alleged Islamist-related terrorism.

Detectives gave no further details about what the targets of the alleges attacks
might have been.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said the charges follow an investigation by Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command.

She said: "We have concluded that there is sufficient evidence and it is in the
public interest to charge Junead Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention of
committing acts of terrorism.

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant.

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this."

Both men are charged under section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006.

Related articles  WATCH: ISIS brides talk openly about shocking rape and torture
by...  Parents will be able to CANCEL childrens' passports over fears...

It states that "with the intention of committing acts of terrorism" they
"engaged in conduct in preparation for giving effect to that intention".

The plot is alleged to have taken place between August 1, 2014, and May 10,
2015.

The two men were arrested a week ago.

Another man, in his 30s, was also detained. He was released without charge last
night.

Searches were carried out at two addresses in the Luton area.

Around 700 Britons are thought to have travelled to join ISIS.

The arrests follow an announcement by the Prime Minister of a fresh crackdown on
home-grown extremism and radicalisation on the streets of Britain.

David Cameron said yesterday that moderate Muslims should speak out against
Islamist militants, saying it was wrong to deny any connection between their
religion and acts of violence.

He outlined a counter-extremism strategy designed to halt the spread in Britain
of the radical ideology promoted by ISIS in Syria and Iraq, calling it the
"struggle of our generation".

Mr Cameron also demanded that internet companies do more to help fight the
spread of radical ideologies.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Ban condemns deadly terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 141 words


United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today condemned the deadly
terrorist attack that took place in the Turkish town of Suruc, which has
reportedly claimed the lives of at least 28 people and injured more than a
hundred.



"The Secretary-General hopes the perpetrators of this act will be swiftly
identified and brought to justice," said a statement issued by a UN spokesperson
in New York, which added that "no cause or grievance ever justifies the
targeting of civilians."

Through the statement, Mr. Ban sent his deepest condolences to the victims and
their families, as well as to the Government and people of Turkey, and wished
those injured a speedy recovery.

According to the media, an apparent suicide bombing occurred at midday at the
Amara Cultural Park in Suruc, a town bordering Syria.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Statement by High Representative/Vice-President Federica Mogherini on the
terrorist attack...

LENGTH: 157 words


Today's terrorist attack in Turkish town of Suru? targeting young volunteers
from the Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF), who were gathered to
go and help with the reconstruction of Kobane, aimed to further destabilise the
region and communities living side by side. The attack adds to the pain and
suffering of Syrian people fleeing violence and destruction, and of the Turkish
people so generously engaged in helping them.



The EU stands by the people and government of Turkey at this very difficult
time. We are ready to provide practical support to Turkey. We extend our deepest
condolences to the bereaved and sympathies to those injured.

Terrorist groups will not prevail in their goal to undermine international
steadfast determination to defeat them. The EU, Turkey and all other regional
and international partners will work together even more closely to tackle this
threat.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Statement by High Representative/Vice-President Federica Mogherini on the
terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 157 words


Today's terrorist attack in Turkish town of Suru? targeting young volunteers
from the Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF), who were gathered to
go and help with the reconstruction of Kobane, aimed to further destabilise the
region and communities living side by side. The attack adds to the pain and
suffering of Syrian people fleeing violence and destruction, and of the Turkish
people so generously engaged in helping them.



The EU stands by the people and government of Turkey at this very difficult
time. We are ready to provide practical support to Turkey. We extend our deepest
condolences to the bereaved and sympathies to those injured.

Terrorist groups will not prevail in their goal to undermine international
steadfast determination to defeat them. The EU, Turkey and all other regional
and international partners will work together even more closely to tackle this
threat.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 6:52 PM GMT

Chattanooga shooting suspect sent text containing Islamic verse before attack;
Friend says text from Qur'an concerned 'declaration of war'Speculation rife over
terror links to attack which killed five servicemen

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1184 words


Hours before the Tennessee shooting on Thursday that killed five US servicemen,
the suspected gunman texted his close friend a link to a long Islamic verse that
included the line: "Whosoever shows enmity to a friend of Mine, then I have
declared war against him."

Related: Chattanooga gunman: foreign links of 'a new generation of terrorist'
investigated

His friend thought nothing of it at the time, but now wonders if it was a clue
to Thursday's rampage in Chattanooga, which has re-ignited concerns about the
radicalisation of young Muslim men.

"I didn't see it as a hint at the time, but it may have been his way of telling
me something," the friend told Reuters on Saturday. He requested anonymity for
fear of a backlash.

The suspect, Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez, a 24-year-old Kuwaiti-born naturalized
US citizen, was killed in a gunfight with police. The FBI is investigating the
attack as an act of terrorism, but has said it is premature to speculate on the
gunman's motive.

Michael McCaul, the Republican chair of the House homeland security committee,
was less circumspect, calling the shooting "an Isis-inspired attack", carried
out by "a new generation of terrorist".

Four marines died on Thursday. On Saturday the US navy said a sailor had died of
his wounds. The navy did not give the name of the sailor, but his
step-grandmother identified him as Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith,
26, of Paulding, Ohio, who left behind a wife and three young daughters.

"He was an awesome young man," Darlene Proxmire told Reuters. "He loved his wife
and children. He loved the navy."

While a firm connection between Abdulazeez and radical Islam has not been
established, the shooting follows a series of attacks or thwarted attacks in the
US and other countries by Muslims claiming to be inspired by Islamic State
(Isis) or other militant groups.

Abdulazeez's friends said he had returned from a trip to Jordan in 2014
concerned about conflicts in the Middle East and the reluctance of the US and
other countries to intervene. He later purchased three assault rifles on an
online marketplace and used them for target practice, the friends said.

"That trip was eye-opening for him. He learned a lot about the traditions and
culture of the Middle East," said the close friend who received the text
message.

Abdulazeez was upset about the 2014 Israeli bombing campaign in Gaza and the
civil war in Syria, he said.

"He felt Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia were not doing enough to help, and that
they were heavily influenced by the US."

Another friend said: "He had always talked about it, but I'd say his level of
understanding and awareness really rose after he came back."

US authorities said Abdulazeez sprayed gunfire at a joint military recruiting
center at a strip mall in Chattanooga, then drove to a naval reserve center
about six miles away, where he killed four marines before he himself was shot
dead.

Abdulazeez, an engineer, went to the Middle East in 2010 and visited several
countries, according to his close friend. He then went to Jordan in 2014 to work
for his uncle, and lived with his uncle and his grandparents there, he said.
After Abdulazeez returned, he seemed more mellow, less interested in partying.

"That is part of what drew us closer. He was a guy who wanted to settle down and
get his life going. That connected us," he said.

The night before the attack, just after 10pm, the close friend received a text
from Abdulazeez with a link to a Hadith, or Islamic teaching. The friend said he
had been asking Abdulazeez for job advice, and continued to text him that
evening and into Thursday but did not get a reply.

The friend said he was interviewed by the FBI, which declined to comment on
Saturday.

For jihadists and ultraconservative Salafist Sunni Muslims, the Hadith "is
usually understood within the context of al-wala wa-l-bara [or] love for Islam
and hatred for its enemies," said David Cook, an associate professor who
specializes in Islam in the department of religion at Rice University in Texas.

According to Abdulazeez's friends, he had purchased three guns on armslist.com
after returning from Jordan, including an AK-74, an AR-15 and a Saiga 12. They
said he also owned 9mm and a.22 caliber hand guns.

Armslist.com is an online listing site on which individuals can buy and sell
firearms through private transactions. Critics say it enables people to obtain
weapons without background checks, though the site has a disclaimer that it
requires users to agree to follow all state and federal firearms laws.

Emails seeking comment from Armlist.com and Armslist Legal Defense Fund, created
to defend Armslist against lawsuits, were not immediately answered. Abdulazeez
had occasionally smoked marijuana and drank alcohol, and struggled to reconcile
that with his faith in Islam, his friends said. At one point, in 2012 or 2013,
Abdulazeez received therapy for his drugs and alcohol use, they said.

"He used it to de-stress, when things were difficult at home, or whatever," the
close friend said, adding that tensions between Abdulazeez and his Palestinian
parents had upset him. His parents nearly got divorced in 2009, according to
court records.

In April, Abdulazeez was arrested and charged with driving under the influence.
He was facing a July 30 court date for his DUI charge.

Abdulazeez also had problems with local youths that sometimes took on a
religious and racial tone, his friend said.

"There were rednecks, ignorant people, who sometimes would cause problems. Mo
never fought, but he used to get worked up and yell and stuff," he said.
"Afterwards he would calm down, and just say it doesn't matter."

Over the past few months, Abdulazeez and his friends practiced shooting in the
Prentice Cooper state forest near Chattanooga, sometimes two or three times a
week.

"He was always interested in guns, since he was young. He started with a BB gun
and paintball, and went on from there. We would go out shooting quite often,"
said the close friend.

Related: Chattanooga shooting: death toll hits five as navy says injured sailor
dies

Abdulazeez also liked driving fast in the hills surrounding Chattanooga. Two
nights before the attack, he and some friends went joyriding in Abdulazeez's
rented gray convertible Ford Mustang, passing through the towns of Whitwell,
Dayton and Jasper.

"Fast car on a rainy night. We were flying, doing tight turns and drifting,"
said the friend, adding that they returned home at about 3 o'clock in the
morning.

"He seemed totally normal. We made plans to hang out on the weekend," he said.

The friend said Abdulazeez had a good paying job and many plans for his life,
including possibly starting a computer sales business in Chattanooga.

"He wanted to buy a car. He wanted a video console, to make a man cave - every
guy's dream."

He said it was difficult to understand how his friend became the suspect in the
rampage.

"The signs just weren't there," he said. "The only thing I can think of is that
it was a combination of things - what is happening overseas, his family
problems, maybe some of the issues with the less educated people here. I don't
know."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 8:42 PM GMT

British man charged over alleged plan to launch terror attack against US
military personnel in UK;
Junead Ahmed Khan allegedly planned to run over a member of the US military with
a car

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 510 words


A 24-year-old British Muslim has appeared in court charged with plotting to run
over a US serviceman with his car and then hack his victim to death with a
knife.

Junead Khan is also charged with planning to join Isis in Syria along with his
uncle, 22-year-old Shazib Khan, who allegedly sought to be a suicide bomber.

The men appeared at Westminster magistrates' court in London. A 30-year-old man
who was originally arrested with them has been released without charge.

Junead Khan, of Luton, is charged with two counts of preparing acts of terrorism
between 1 August 2014 and 10 May this year, and between 10 May and 14 July this
year.

Shazib Khan, also of Luton, is charged with one count of preparing acts of
terrorism between 1 August and 10 May this year.

Mark Dawson, prosecuting, said the men were accused of planning to travel to
Syria. He told the court: "In relation to Shazib Khan, an offence pursuant to
Section 5 of the Terrorism Act... relates to preparing to travel to Syria to
join Islamic State [Isis} - potentially for martyrdom purposes.

"In relation to Junead Khan, the first charge is the same, but potentially not
for martyrdom purposes. The second Section 5 offence relates to planning an act
of terrorism in the UK."

Mr Dawson said that Junead Khan was accused of "planning to stage a traffic
accident, planning to run over a serviceman and use a knife to kill the
serviceman". During the alleged attack, Junead Khan "certainly had in mind the
wearing of a suicide vest", Mr Dawson continued.

Read more: Briton arrested over Isis terror plotTackling extremism: What the UK
can learn from DenmarkMuslim leaders give their views on the PM's plansRobert
Fisk: Churchillian posturing over Syria is misguided

The arrests are said to be connected to the cancellation of an air show to
celebrate the US Independence Day on 4th July at RAF Feltwell in Norfolk.

The two-day event, with the Red Arrows taking part, was due to be hosted by
members of the United States Air Force based at RAF Lakenheath and RAF
Mildenhall in Suffolk.

A statement posted on the RAF Lakenheath website at the time of the cancellation
read: "The decision was made due to the most current local threat assessments.
The base continually surveys the security environment alongside host nation
counterparts and must take appropriate measures based on those assessments."

Apologising for the cancellation, USAF Colonel David Eaglin added: "We have to
put public safety first and foremost".

The two men were arrested at midday on 14 July at their homes in Luton,
Bedfordshire.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter-terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning
on travelling to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in
Levant [Isis].

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this."

Judge Howard Riddle ordered the two men to appear at the Old Bailey on 18
August.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 2:57 PM GMT

Briton arrested over Isis terror plot to attack US troops on UK soil;
Two others have been arrested, with one released without charge

BYLINE: Michael Segalov

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words


A man has been charged over an alleged plot to carry out a terror attack on US
military personnel in the UK.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, and his uncle, Shazib Ahmed, 22, have also been charged
with attempting to join Isis in Syria, the Crown Prosecution Service have
reported.

The men, both in their early 20s, were arrested a week ago in an operation
involving officers from the national counter-terrorism network.

They will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court later today. They have each
been charged with an offence under the Terrorism Act 2006. The charges, which
date between 1 August 2014 and 10 May 2015, allege that both men had the
"intention of committing acts of terrorism," according to the Crown Prosecution
Service (CPS).

READ MORE: TACKLING EXTREMISM: WHAT THE UK CAN LEARN FROM DENMARK

The CPS statement added that Khan will also be prosecuted for a further offence
under the same legislation, for "planning a terrorist attack on US military
personnel in the UK."

According to the Metropolitan Police another man, also from Luton and in his
thirties, was arrested in the same investigation, but was released without
charge on Monday evening in his thirties.

This news comes just one day after David Cameron promised in a "five year plan"
when it comes to fighting extremism. Speaking in Birmingham, the PM remarked
that "Great British resolve faced down Hitler; it defeated Communism; it saw off
the IRA's assaults on our way of life. Time and again we have stood up to
aggression and tyranny."

The Metropolitan Police have said that "officers from the UK's national counter
terrorism network, led by the Met's Counter Terrorism Command (SO15) and
supported by colleagues from Bedfordshire Police and Eastern Counter Terrorism
Intelligence Unit, carried out the operation."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Students killed in suspected Isis suicide bombing at rally in Turkey;
Suruc attack marks dramatic escalation of terror group's campaign over the
Syrian border

BYLINE: ISABEL HUNTER AND SEYHMUS CAKAN IN SURUC

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 662 words


A suspected Isis suicide bombing at a gathering of young students planning the
reconstruction of the Syrian town of Kobani killed at least 30 across the border
in Turkey yesterday.

In a dramatic escalation of Isis' terror campaign inside Turkey, the blast tore
through a group of university students from an activist group as they gathered
to make a statement to the local press about a trip they were planning to help
rebuild Kobani.

The blast was in Suruc, Turkey, just six miles from the town of Kobani where
Kurdish fighters have been battling Isis in Syria. Reports suggested the
attacker was an 18-year- old woman, although that was later disputed. At least
30 people were killed with dozens more seriously wounded.

"We were planning to go to Kobani to make a park for children and build a
hospital and school," said Turgut, 22, an economics student from Istanbul. He
was on the other side of the Amara Cultural Centre when he heard the explosion,
and at first dismissed it as not serious. Then he heard the screams. "We heard
the noise, the bomb??? then we heard their voices and we went to find them -
there was blood and people were injured and people were dead. We just had to
leave," he told The Independent. Bodies were seen lying beneath trees outside
the cultural centre in the mostly Kurdish town.

The 300-strong group from the Federation of Socialist Youth Associations were
mostly students. Fears of a second Suruc attack soon spread, which has a large
refugee population from Kobani as well as long historical links to both the
outlawed Kurdish groups, the PKK and its Syrian branch, the YPG.

"Everyone is staying in doors and are scared of a second attack - people aren't
walking in the streets and especially not gathering in large groups," local
writer and activist Omer Baran said. The 26-year-old had a lucky escape as he
was due to attend the meeting, but was delayed. "People were panicked and I
didn't understand what was happening when I arrived - everyone was crying and
screaming," he said.

"Our initial evidence shows that this was a suicide attack by Islamic State
[Isis]," one senior official in Ankara told Reuters. A second official also said
Isis appeared to have been responsible and that the attack was a "retaliation
for the Turkish government's efforts to fight terrorism".

The blast came after a series of attacks on the Kurdish HDP party in the run-up
to elections on 7 June, including two small bombings at a political rally in the
city of Diyarbakir, which the party blamed on Isis sympathisers. "What concerns
gives us about this attack is that while the others were haphazard... the size
of this explosion suggests something more sophisticated," said Aaron Stein, an
Atlantic Council fellow who specialises in Turkey and Syria.

Sevda Celik Ozbingol, co-chair of the pro-Kurdish HDP branch for Sanliurfa
region, which includes Suruc, told The Independent that police have arrested a
man who was reportedly wearing a suicide vest to perform a second attack in the
hospital, immediately after the bombing at the cultural centre.

Bodies of the dead were taken to neighbouring cities of Gaziantep and Sanliurfa
for formal identification. The student group had travelled from Istanbul to
Suruc and the vast majority were not Kurdish, but were simply there to give the
Kurds in Kobani "a hand", said Turgut, the student from Istanbul. As dusk fell
last night, protestors in Suruc began to clash with the Turkish police as youths
blamed the Turkish Government, and especially President Tayyip Erdogan, for
failing to defeat Isis.

Turkey's Nato allies have been seeking tighter controls on a porous border with
Syria that serves as a frontline in the battle against the jihadsits. But
monitoring is difficult with 1.8 million Syrian refugees now settled on the
Turkish side. Turkey's leaders have said they do not plan any unilateral
military incursion into Syria but have also said they will do whatever is
necessary to defend the country's borders.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Luton Today

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Terror accused plotted attack on US military'

LENGTH: 295  words


A Luton man who has been charged with terror offences was allegedly planning to
attack US military based in the UK, it has emerged.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24 and his uncle Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22, were both remanded
into custody when they appeared at Westminster Magistrates Court yesterday- a
week after the pair were arrested at their Marlow Avenue home.

Both are suspected to have  been plotting to travel to Syria to join Islamic
State, while Junead Ahmed Khan is also accused of planning a terror attack.

Possible targets include RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk, which hosts more than 5,000
US Air Force personnel.

An Independence Day celebration at the base was cancelled on July 4 over
heightened security fears.

A RAF Lakenheath spokesperson said: "We can confirm this is why the event was
cancelled.

"However we cannot discuss details while the investigation is ongoing.

"Authorities from the UK and US, both military and civilian, will work together
continually when addressing security concerns."

Junead Ahmed Khan and Shazib Ahmed will appear before the Old Bailey on August
10.

Another Luton man, who was arrested at his home on Vestry Close on July 14, has
been released without charge.

Deborah Walsh from the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "We have concluded that
there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest to charge Junead
Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention of committing acts of terrorism.

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant (ISIL)."

Ms Walsh added: "It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist
attack on US military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an
additional terrorism offence to reflect this."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBLN


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 2:16 PM GMT

Iranian asylum seeker stole floral tributes to Tunisia terrorist attack victims
to 'brighten up his room'

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words



     ·    Flowers placed at Fulham Coroner's Court in memory of London couple
     ·    Asylum seeker seen by policeman grabbing some before walking off
     ·    When arrested, the Iranian man said he took them brighten up his room
     ·    Thief became angry in court today as he was fined and told to pay
          costs


An Iranian asylum seeker stole floral tributes to a couple gunned down in the
Tunisia terrorist attack because he wanted to 'brighten up his room,' a court
heard today.

Homeless Shayan Moradisohi, 31, took the flowers from under a police cordon
outside Fulham Coroner's Court on 6 July.

Today Moradisohi admitted one count of theft of the flowers that were addressed
to John, 74, and Janet Stocker, 63, who died during the beach attack in Sousse
last month.

A police officer noticed Moradisohi leave with the flowers and when questioned
said he was depressed and wanted to 'brighten up his room'.

Moradisohi appeared at Hammersmith Magistrates' Court today, wearing shorts, a
black shirt and a blue Arsenal woolly hat.

Married couple John and Janet were among the 30 Britons massacred by jihadi
terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui.

Rezgui, 23, went on the rampage on 26 June in Sousse armed with a Kalashnikov
rifle, killing 38 tourists in total.

Entering the dock, Moradisohi tripped over his undone shoelaces.

Kevin Christie, prosecuting, said: 'On 6 July police were on duty at a cordon at
Fulham Mortuary on aid of the victims involved in the Tunisian massacre.

'PC William Hunt saw the gentleman before you today reach over the police
cordon, crossing a police line, and take a bunch of flowers that were part of
the memorial to the victims.

'PC Hunt had recognised the victim before you today from the distinctive
clothing he was wearing, and observed he didn't have any flowers, but left
having lent over the cordon taking the flowers.

'He followed the gentleman for several metres before stopping him. The defendant
stated they were his.

'However PC Hunt arrested the gentleman, telling him he had seen him taking the
flowers. On arrest he said he taken the flowers and put them in his room.

'He was interviewed and provided a prepared statement, fully admitting the act,
and saying he was sorry for what he did and didn't realise where he was or what
they were for.'

Grandparents Mr and Mrs Stocker were from Morden, south London. Mr Stocker was a
retired stock broker and father of five born in Peckham.

Declan Adams, defending, said: 'There is an aggravated feature here, given the
tragedy that happened in Tunisia.

'From what I know of the defendant he is a 31-year-old who came to the UK as an
asylum seeker from Iran.

'It appears he suffers from trauma and depression, and presents himself as a man
who has possible trouble in that area. He says he lives in a hostel.

'He certainly was not aware of what a coroner's court was, and in that respect
didn't realise the sensitivity of the situation.

'He said he felt depressed and wanted the flowers to brighten up his room. He
wants to extend his apologies to those victims and express his sympathy.

'He is not familar with current affairs and had he been aware he would not have
taken the flowers.'

Magistrate Julie Baldwin fined Moradisohi £20 and ordered him to pay prosecution
costs of £85, court costs of £180, and a victim surcharge of £20.

But Moradisohi stood and shouted when ordered to pay the fine, saying: 'Why
should I pay? I am sick. I have a mental problem. How can I pay? They give me
poison and make me disabled.'

Moradisohi, of no fixed abode, admitted one count of theft.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 12:40 PM GMT

Turkey steps up security on Syrian border in fear of more ISIS terror attacks
spilling over into popular tourist hotspots after suicide bomb blast kills 32

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1135 words



     ·    Turkish PM says security must be increased following yesterday's
          attack
     ·    Female ISIS extremist killed 32 people and injured 100 others in Suruc
     ·    Most of the victims were Kurdish students  rallying in support of
          residents of Kobane, who were displaced from the Syrian city by ISIS
     ·    There are fears the terror group may be plotting further attacks in
          Turkey


Turkey has stepped up security on its southern Syrian border amid fears that the
Islamic State militants said to be behind yesterday's suicide bombing in Suruc
may be plotting more attacks.

A female extremist killed 32 people and injured more than 100 others, when she
blew herself up outside a cultural centre in the southern Turkish town yesterday
afternoon.

Most of the victims were Kurdish students with the Federation of Socialist
Youths, who were rallying in support of the displaced residents of Kobane - just
six miles away over the border in Syria.

Now Turkey has vowed to step up security along the border amid fears that the
ISIS fanatics could begin targeting popular tourist hotspots in the country, in
response to the Ankara government taking its first serious steps towards
combating the terror group with a string of arrests in recent weeks.

Yesterday's attack in Suruc was one of the deadliest in Turkey in recent years
and the first time the government has directly accused ISIS of carrying out an
act of terror on Turkish soil.

Graphic images of the attack in Suruc shocked the country, with the press
publishing front page photos of the mutilated corpses of pro-Kurdish activists
lying on the ground covered in pages from broadsheet newspapers.

'Security on our borders will continue to be increased,' Prime Minister Ahmet
Davutoglu said late Monday, adding that preliminary information pointed to an
attack by ISIS jihadis.

'This attack targets us all,' he said, urging all political parties to
demonstrate unity and vowing to bring the perpetrators to justice.

The blast ripped through a cultural centre in Suruc hosting about 300 socialist
youth activists and most of the 32 dead and about 100 wounded were university
students.

The activists had arrived in the mainly Kurdish town earlier in the day to take
part in a rebuilding mission for the flashpoint Syrian town of Kobane just six
miles over the border, which Kurdish forces retook from ISIS militants earlier
this year.

Hundreds of pro-Kurdish activists took to the streets of Turkish cities last
night to protest both the attacks and government policy on Syria, with police in
Istanbul using water cannon on the crowds.

Dozens of people were killed in October in nationwide protests across Turkey
against the government's perceived lack of support for Kurds battling ISIS
jihadis.

ISIS, which has claimed swathes of territory in Syria and Iraq right up to the
Turkish border has so far not claimed the attack - an unexpected development for
a group usually more than willing to accept responsibility for any atrocity it
commits.

Turkey has long been accused by its Western partners of not doing enough to halt
the rise of ISIS and even colluding with the group, allegations it vehemently
denies.

But Ankara has in the last weeks appeared to take a harder line against the
group, rounding up dozens of suspected members in Istanbul and other cities.

'Turkey has always taken measures against Daesh and similar kind of
organisations,' said Davutoglu, using a pejorative Arabic acronym for ISIS.

'Daesh threatens not only Syrian people but also Turkey,' he added.

ISIS BANS PRIVATE INTERNET ACCESS IN RAQQA IN A CRACKDOWN ON SPIES AND ACTIVISTS
REVEALING THE TERROR GROUP'S DAILY ATROCITIES

Militants fighting for the Islamic State in Syria have banned private internet
access in its de facto capital Raqqa in a crackdown on spies and activists
revealing the terror group's daily atrocities.

The move means everybody living in the terror stronghold must now use internet
cafes operated and monitored by ISIS officials if they want to communicate
online.

The ban will affect not only affect brave activist groups like Raqqa is Being
Slaughtered Silently, which documents ISIS abuses in the north Syrian city, but
also potential defectors trying to arrange for their safe departure out of
territory held by the terror group.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and activist group Raqqa is Being
Slaughtered Silently both reported the new restrictions on internet access.

The latter posted online a picture of a leaflet being distributed in the city
warning internet providers they had four days to cut private wifi connections.

'The following is obligatory on all internet providers: the removal of wifi
connections distributed outside of internet cafes and private connections,
including for Islamic State soldiers.'

The document says providers have four days from Sunday to comply with the order.

RIBSS said the ban was intended to ensure 'access through internet cafes only in
order to monitor access.'

NATO member Turkey's main aim in the Syria conflict has been the ousting of
President Bashar al-Assad and containment of pro-Kurdish groups and, so far, is
yet to play a full role in the coalition against ISIS.

Nihat Ali Ozcan, security expert at Ankara-based TEPAV think tank, told AFP that
the attack showed the confrontation between IS and Kurdish groups within Syria
was 'spilling over to Turkish soil.'

'The attack could trigger ideological, ethnic and political faultlines in
Turkey,' he told AFP.

Deputy Prime Minister Nurman Kurtulmus confirmed that the toll stood at 32, with
29 people were still being treated for their injuries, mostly in hospitals in
the regional centre of Sanliurfa.

In televised comments, Kurtulmus said five corpses of the victims had already
been handed over the their families.

'We must show a common stand against terror,' Kurtulmus said.

Kurtulmus said there were 'big suspicions' over the identity of the bomber but
said full information would only be given once the identity was certain.

Davutoglu would travel to Sanliurfa later Tuesday, a government source told AFP,
but it was not clear if he would head to the scene of the attack itself in
Suruc.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned the attack, saying Monday: 'I curse and
condemn the perpetrators of this brutality.'

The activists from the Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF),
several of whom were in their teens, had travelled to Suruc from all over
Turkey, according to Alp Altinors from the pro-Kurdish HDP party.

Just before the attack, they had been pictured seated at tables enjoying
breakfast and tea.

White House spokesman Josh Earnest condemned the 'heinous' attack, as did
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who labelled it a 'barbaric act' and called
for greater international cooperation in fighting terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 6:04 PM GMT

Man, 24, charged with planning 'terror attack' on US soldiers in Britain;
Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, is also accused, along with his uncle, Shazib Ahmed Khan,
22, of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic State

BYLINE: By Hayden Smith

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 287 words


A 24-year-old man has been charged over an alleged plan to carry out a terror
attack on American military personnel in Britain.

Junead Ahmed Khan is also accused, along with his uncle, Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22,
of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic State (IS).

The men, both from Luton, appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London
today.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said the charges follow an investigation by Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command.

She said: "We have concluded that there is sufficient evidence and it is in the
public interest to charge Junead Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention of
committing acts of terrorism.

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant.

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this."

Both men are charged under section 5(1)(a) of the Terrorism Act 2006.

It states that "with the intention of committing acts of terrorism" they
"engaged in conduct in preparation for giving effect to that intention".

The count relating to both men covers a period between August 1 2014, and May 10
2015.

Junead Ahmed Khan faces an additional charge dating between May 10 2015 and July
14 2015.  The two men were arrested a week ago.

Another man, in his 30s, was also detained. He was released without charge last
night.

Searches were carried out at two addresses in the Luton area. Scotland Yard said
the activity was part of an ongoing investigation into alleged Islamist-related
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Bikers to ride together in memory of Blackwood Tunisia terror attack victim
Trudy Jones

BYLINE: Francesca Gillett

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


BIKERS will ride together in memory of Tunisia terror attack victim Trudy Jones
next month in one of two fundraising events being held by her family.

The 51-year-old grandmother from Blackwood was among the 38 people tragically
killed when a gunman opened fire on tourists in a resort in Sousse on Friday,
June 26.

Today Trudy's niece, Cerys Mayne, revealed the family are organising a charity
motorbike ride and fun day in August as well as a fundraising entertainment
evening next week on Tuesday, July 28.

She said the family are hoping "a couple of thousand people" will come to the
family fun day and bike ride, which was chosen as several of Trudy's family are
bikers.

All the money raised will go to the Trudy Jones Trust Fund which has already
seen around £300 of donations in less than two weeks.

Ms Mayne will also be selling hundreds of specially-made charity ribbon badges
for £1. The ribbons will be cerise pink with diamantes and the letter T for
Trudy.

She said the money from the fund will go to Trudy's family although they are yet
to decide what it will be spent on.

If there is a large amount of money, donations will also be made to charities
Macmillan Cancer Support and Velindre Cancer Centre which are close to the heart
of Trudy's 84-year-old mother, Ruth Birchard.

Ms Mayne told the Argus: "We have been overwhelmed by the support. Local artists
have come forward saying they want to do the singing. It's been brilliant."

On Tuesday, July 21 a fundraising evening will be held at the Woodbine Club in
Blackwood and will feature live music, a raffle and bingo. Entry costs £2.

Then on Saturday, August 29 there will be a sponsored motorbike ride from
Blackwood ambulance station to Newbridge Rugby Club. The ride will be followed
by a family fun day at the club including music, entertainment and a bouncy
castle.

For more information, to donate or buy a ribbon, please email
Cerysldavies89@hotmail.co.uk or visit the fundraising website
www.gofundme.com/yw5d9gg. Donations can also be made at any Santander branch to
the trust fund.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 1:31 PM GMT

Terror suspect charged over Isil-inspired plot to attack US troops in the UK;
Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, is suspected of planning the terror attack between May
and July this year

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


A man has been charged with allegedly plotting to attack US troops in the UK in
an Isil-inspired plot.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, of Luton, is suspected of planning the terror attack
between May and July this year.

Khan and his uncle, Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22, also of Luton, have also been charged
under terror laws with allegedly planning to travel to Syria to join Isil, also
known as Islamic State .

The pair was among three men arrested in Luton and Letchworth last week, one of
them at gunpoint.

The third man was released without charge on Monday evening.

· Hazel Blears: Cameron has at last woken up to Isil's poisoning of our young
people's minds

The two Khans are due to appear before Westminster Magistrates' Court later on
Tuesday.

They have been charged under the Terrorism Act 2006 and the Syria related
charges cover the period from August last year to May this year.

Junead Ahmed Khan has been further charged with an additional count in
connection with the alleged plot to attack the US military.

Deborah Walsh, Deputy Head of Counter Terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "Following an investigation by the Metropolitan Police Service's
SO15, we have concluded that there is sufficient evidence and it is in the
public interest to charge Junead Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention of
committing acts of terrorism.

· It is Muslims who must reach out to Britain

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant (ISIL).

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this.

"The decision to prosecute was taken in accordance with the Code for Crown
Prosecutors."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 8:43 AM GMT

Eurostar reports highest ever number of passengers but sales revenues drop after
Paris terror attacks;
More than 2.8m customers travelled between the UK and the continent on Eurostar
trains in the second quarter of 2015

BYLINE: By Rupert Denholm-Hall

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 212 words


Eurostar, the high-speed passenger rail service between the UK and mainland
Europe, today reported the highest ever number of passengers transported in one
quarter with more than 2.8m customers travelling between the UK and the
continent in the second quarter of 2015.

This represents a year-on-year increase of 3% in passengers compared with the
same period last year (2.8m 2015: 2.7m 2014).

As reported earlier this year, sales revenues in the first quarter of the year
were impacted by terrorist attacks in Paris and the closure of Eurotunnel
following a lorry fire.

READ MORE: Calais crisis: Eurostar returning to normal, but lorries still packed
up in Kent

As a result, overall sales revenues for hl 2015 were down 2% year-on-year. Over
the first six months of the year passenger numbers rose by 2% (5.1m hl 2015:
5.0m hl 2014).

Nicolas Petrovic, Chief Executive, Eurostar, said: "Over the last three months
we have carried more passengers than in any other quarter. With demand for our
services at an all-time high we are looking forward to the arrival of our new
trains.

"The combination of state-of-the-art design, unrivalled comfort and 20% extra
seats means that we are well placed to meet the growing demand as passengers
increasingly opt for high speed rail over plane."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 10:59 AM GMT

CHARLIZE THERON'S TERROR AT SHARK ATTACK BEACH

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 189 words


Actress CHARLIZE THERON has recalled her childhood terror fleeing from sharks at
a beach where surfer MICK FANNING was attacked by one of the deadly predators on
Sunday (19Jul15).

Australian sporting legend Fanning hit headlines around the world when he
bravely fought off the beast on live TV as it targeted him during the final of a
world tour event at Jeffreys Bay, South Africa.

Now Theron, who often took trips to the beauty spot with her family as a young
girl, has recalled how the waters of Jeffreys Bay are packed with sharks, and
bathers are often ordered onto the beach by lifeguards to avoid an attack.

The South African actress tells USA Today, "It's a place I used to go as a kid
on summer vacations. We had a house (nearby). As a kid we would swim in the
ocean and you would hear... the lifeguards blowing on their whistles and all the
kids would just run out of the water.

"We would just stand there and we would watch the shark - this was so sick
(good) - as the wave would come up, we would watch the shark swim all the way
(out of the bay) and then the whistle would go off again. And we would just run
back into the water!"

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Iran condemns Algeria "terror" attack

LENGTH: 119 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has strongly condemned the
recent "terrorist" attack which claimed the lived of 11 soldiers in Algeria's
Ain Defla, the Islamic Students News Agency (ISNA) reported on 22 July.

Afkham extended Iran's sympathy to the Algerian nation, government as well as to
the victims' families.

She said that the "ominous phenomenon of terrorism was created by enemies of the
Islamic nation in order to spread instability in the region and achieve their
inhumane goals."

Afkham further urged for close cooperation among Islamic countries to confront
"terrorism" and prevent the spread of the activities of extremist groups.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1036 gmt 22 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Bury Free Press

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Alleged terror plot to attack US soldier'

LENGTH: 399  words


A terror suspect accused of planning to attack an American soldier at RAF
Mildenhall, Lakenheath or Feltwell has been remanded in custody.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, of Marlow Avenue, Luton, is accused of planning an attack
on an American soldier by staging a car accident and using a knife to kill the
serviceman'.

He is also accused of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic State,
alongside his uncle Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22, of Vestry Close, Luton.

Prosecuting at Westminster Magistrates' Court on Tuesday, Mark Dawson said:
"Shazib Khan is charged under section 75 of the Terrorism Act - preparing for
travel to Syria to join Islamic State, possibly for martyrdom purposes.

"In relation to Junead Khan the charge is the same, potentially not for
martyrdom purposes.

"The two men had been in communication with IS fighters and had expressed a
desire to travel."

Junead also allegedly planned to attack an American soldier by staging a traffic
accident' at either RAF Mildenhall, RAF Lakenheath or RAF Feltwell, the court
heard.

"He intended to run over a serviceman and use a knife to kill the serviceman,
and to do so, certainly had in mind the wearing of a suicide vest," Mr Dawson
told the court.

Officers from the UK's national counter terrorism network arrested the pair at
their home addresses on July 14.

They both appeared in court in grey prison tracksuits, with Junead also wearing
a black skullcap.

He faces two charges of preparing acts of terrorism, while his uncle faces only
one.

They were not asked to enter pleas on Tuesday, but Mr Dawson said not guilty
pleas had been indicated.

Judge Howard Riddle remanded the pair in custody until their preliminary hearing
at London's Old Bailey on August 18.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of Counter Terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said in a statement: "Following an investigation by the Metropolitan
Police Service's SO15, we have concluded there is sufficient evidence and it is
in the public interest to charge Junead Khan and Shazib Khan with the intention
of committing acts of terrorism.

"It is alleged that Junead Khan and Shazib Khan had been planning on travelling
to Syria to join the proscribed organisation Islamic State in Levant (ISIL).

"It is further alleged that Junead Khan was planning a terrorist attack on US
military personnel in the UK and he has been charged with an additional
terrorism offence to reflect this."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBFP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Lee Rigby-style plot to kill a U.S. soldier in Britain;
Court told terror suspect planned attack at air base

BYLINE: TOM PETTIFOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 277 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist plotted to behead an American soldier at a UK base, a
court heard yesterday.

Junead Khan, 24, is accused of planning the Lee Rigby-style attack in the two
months before his arrest on Tuesday last week.

The delivery driver has also been charged - along with his uncle Shazib Ahmed
Khan, 22 - with planning to travel to join Islamic State in Syria.

Prosecutor Mark Dawson said the men, from Luton, Beds, had been in communication
with IS fighters and had expressed a desire to join them.

Junead Khan wanted to attack an American soldier by "staging a traffic
accident", it is said.

Mr Dawson told Westminster magistrates court: "He intended to run over a
serviceman and use a knife to kill the serviceman."

Fusilier Lee Rigby was murdered by Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale in a
similar way outside his barracks in Woolwich, South East London, in May, 2013.

Junead allegedly planned to carry out an attack at RAF Mildenhall, RAF
Lakenheath or RAF Feltwell, all in Suffolk.

Both defendants spoke only to confirm their names when they appeared for the
15-minute hearing in grey prison uniforms.

Mr Dawson said Shazib Khan was charged with "preparing for travel to Syria to
join Islamic State - potentially for martyrdom purposes." He added: "In relation
to Junead, the first charge is the same, but potentially not for martyrdom
purposes."

Neither man made any bail application, and district judge Howard Riddle remanded
them in custody to appear at the Old Bailey next month.

Officers from the UK's national counter terrorism network, along with armed
police, arrested the pair in co-ordinated raids at their homes last week.

tom.pettifor@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON GUARD American servicemen were target

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Man charged with plotting terror attack on US military personnel in Britain

BYLINE: By Nina Massey, Press Association

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 236 words


A MAN has appeared in court charged with planning a terrorist attack on American
military personnel in Britain.

Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, is accused of intending to commit terrorist acts.

He appeared in court alongside his uncle Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22, with whom he is
jointly charged with an offence of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic
State (IS), also known as Isil.

It is alleged that between August 1, 2014, and May 10, 2015, with the "intention
of committing acts of terrorism, they engaged in conduct in preparation for
giving effect to that intention".

Westminster Magistrates' Court heard that in preparation for alleged travel to
Syria, the men looked into buying combat wear.

Junead Ahmed Khan faces an additional count contrary to section 5 of the
Terrorism Act 2006 dating between May 10, 2015, and July 14, 2015.

It is alleged that he planned to stage a car accident and run over a serviceman.

The nephew and uncle were remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on
August 10.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter-terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said the charges follow an investigation by Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command.

Both bearded men were arrested a week ago in an operation involving officers
from the national counter-terrorism network. Another man, in his 30s, was also
detained. He was released without charge on Monday.

Searches were carried out at two addresses in Luton.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      July 22, 2015 Wednesday 4:38 PM GMT

Peshawar school attack: Imran Khan visits families of those killed in Pakistan
shooting to say Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at the end of Ramadan;
Former cricketer-turned politician tells media Pakistan must negotiate with
terror group who carried out the attack

BYLINE: Aftab Ali

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 490 words


Imran Khan has been leading tributes in the city of Peshawar in Pakistan today
as families face their first Eid-ul-Fitr without their children following last
year's brutal Taliban attack on a school.

The former cricketer-turned-politician was joined by his wife, former BBC
presenter, Reham Khan, to meet and pray with the parents of the pupils who were
killed in the shock terrorist attack which claimed 145 lives.

Announcing that an official one-minute silence will take place on every
anniversary of the shooting, the politician later spoke with the media about the
importance of holding negotiations with the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) -
the group behind the attack.

He told them: "If America can negotiate with the Afghan Taliban, Pakistan and
Afghanistan should also negotiate with them."

In Peshawar for dua with parents of APS students and then, weather permitting,
will be going to Chitral in the afternoon.; Imran Khan (@ImranKhanPTI) July 22,
2015#DuaForAPSMartyrsRemembering friends & comrades.#NeverForget.Dua for those
gone but never forgotten.pic.twitter.com/FYwR5On5BK; MasterShake (@Moeedi) July
22, 2015#DuaForAPSMartyrs Our Bhabhi @RehamKhan1 is also accompanying Khan Sahb
& meeting families in Peshawar pic.twitter.com/ekVmRYDUCi; Farhan Khan Virk
(@FarhanKVirk) July 22, 2015Saluting the little heroes of Pakistan!!Yes only one
person is here to do
that.#DuaForAPSMartyrs#NeverForgetpic.twitter.com/2fZqDPbJZI; Maham خان
(@MahamK97) July 22, 2015#DuaForAPSMartyrs Every year on 16 December, a minute's
silence to be observed in remembrance of APS martyrs, IK.
pic.twitter.com/IAY2OW0IFh; Danish Khan (@KhanDanish_) July 22, 2015

As #DuaForAPSMartyrs (#PrayForAPSMartyrs) began to trend on Twitter throughout
the country, Pakistan remembered 'the Pakistani Taliban's deadliest attack to
date' when, last December, gunmen walked from class to class shooting students
in the city's Army Public School (APS).

132 children were among those killed which prompted a national outcry in the
country. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif declared three days of mourning
and said: "I have decided to proceed to Peshawar and I will supervise the
operation myself. These are my children and it is my loss."

World leaders and royal figures from across the globe also shared Mr Sharif's
sentiments with Prime Minister David Cameron, Prince Charles and the Queen all
condemning the attack and offering the country their sympathies.

After claiming responsibility for the attack, the TTP described it as 'an act of
revenge' for Operation Zarb-e-Azb - a military offensive against terror groups,
including the TTP.

However, this year's Eid - which is usually a jubilant festival to celebrate the
Holy Month of Ramadan - has been marred for the hundreds of families who are
still struggling to cope without their loved-ones.

As well as celebrating the end of Ramadan, Eid-ul-Fitr is a religious festival
which also sees Muslims honour the dead.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man on terror attack charge;
BRITAIN TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 90 words


A 24-YEAR-OLD man has been charged over an alleged plan to carry out a terror
attack on American military personnel in Britain.

Junead Ahmed Khan is also accused, along with his uncle, Shazib Ahmed Khan, 22,
of planning to travel to Syria to join Islamic State (IS) - also known as Isil.

The men, both from Luton, will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court in
London later. Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown
Prosecution Service, said the charges follow an investigation by Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Neighbour dispute over £5 drinking debt ended in 10-inch knife terror attack

BYLINE: PETE MAGILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


A NEIGHBOUR dispute over just a £5 drinking debt in Burnley ended with a
57-year-old lunging at his victim with a 10-inch knife, a court heard.

Lee Hibbert was convinced that Tony Copeman was trying to kill him when he
turned up on his doorstep and demanded the return of the fiver, the town's crown
court was told.

MORE TOP STORIES:

But Mr Hibbert managed to deflect the knife's thrusts, suffering up to 10 small
defence cuts to his hands as Copeman continued trying to attack him.

The victim tried to slap the drunken Copeman in the face and he eventually
stumbled away, but not before insisting Mr Hibbert was a 'dead man'.

Copeman, formerly of Deerstone Avenue, admitted assaulting Mr Hibbert and was
given 12 months imprisonment, suspended for two years, including a 60-day
rehabilitation activity requirement to address his alcohol problems.

Hanifa Patel, prosecuting, said Mr Hibbert and Copeman had been drinking,
together with a third friend, at the defendant's flat and at one point he had
given them his cash card to buy more alcohol.

"They went to the post office to try to withdraw cash but there were no funds in
the account so they returned to the flat and gave the card to him," said Miss
Patel.

The court heard Mr Hibbert went back to his flat upstairs but was disturbed two
hours later by a loud banging on his front door.

Miss Patel said Copeman began shouting about the £5.13 in his bank account,
which he was convinced his neighbour had stolen.

He produced a knife and made repeated attempts to stab Mr Hibbert before he
managed to grab the weapon and the incident eventually calmed down.

Copeman, who has previous convictions for involvement in stabbings, was arrested
later but told police he was so drunk he did not recall what had happened but
wanted to apologise to Mr Hibbert for his behaviour.

Keith Harrison, defending, said Copeman had stayed out of trouble for 10 years
and had brought his drinking under control before the day in question.

"He is 57 and too old to be coming before the courts for these kind of
offences," said Mr Harrison.

Passing sentence, Judge Andrew Woolman said he was 'amazed' the defendant had
not been charged with a more serious offence, as a knife had been used.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 22, 2015 Wednesday 7:13 PM GMT

Wish you weren't here! British tourists pack out Benidorm beaches as record
numbers head for Spain in wake of Tunisia terror attacks

BYLINE: JULIAN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words



     ·    Pictures show thousands of holidaymakers packing out Levante Beach at
          Benidorm, on the east coast of Spain
     ·    It comes as families continue to seek value-for-money holidays in the
          wake of the Tunisia terror attacks last month
     ·    Spain set a new record for visitors in the six months to June this
          year with 29.2 million descending on the country


These pictures show how huge crowds of British tourists are packing out the
beaches in Spain in the wake of the Tunisia terror attacks.

Thousands are flocking to the seaside resort of Benidorm, on Spain's east coast,
as families seek value-for-money holidays after the mass shooting in June.

Sunbathers have been pictured cramming on to the Levante and Poniente beaches on
what is the first week of the British summer holidays.

It comes as it was revealed Spain has set a new record for visitors, with 29.2
million descending on the country in the six months to June - 4.2 per cent more
than the same period in 2014.

Earlier this month, the Daily Mail revealed how 300,000 Britons who had been
planning to visit Tunisia have been left to look for alternatives, after the
Government advised against travelling there following the recent terror attack.

It also reported that last minute bookings to Greece were down because of the
country's debt crisis. Spain's renewed popularity has come despite the Foreign
Office raising the country's terrorism threat level to 'high' earlier this
month.

Some 15million Britons visited Spain and its islands last year, up from
11million in 2010. Spain's popularity peaked in the 1970s when 17million Britons
visited each year - but it has since faced competition from more exotic
destinations.

Benidorm - which inspired an ITV sitcom of the same name - saw its reputation
plummet after the high-rise hotel boom of the 1970s and the influx of Club 18-30
British tourists.

But the city has now applied to the UN to be declared a World Heritage Site,
alongside the Grand Canyon and the Great Wall of China.

And officials on the holiday island of Magaluf have brought in bans on drinking
in the street and public nudity, hoping to rid the resort of its reputation for
drunkenness and debauchery.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 22, 2015 Wednesday 9:08 PM GMT

Benidorm beaches jam-packed as British holidaymakers flock to Spain in wake of
Tunisia terror attacks;
Barely an inch of sand is unclaimed as tourists swarm across the Spanish
resort's beaches

BYLINE: By Anna Dubuis

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 159 words


Brits are back in Benidorm

It would be a hard task trying to locate your spot on the beach amid this
carnage in Benidorm.

These photos illustrate how thousands of holiday makers have flocked to the
Spanish seaside resort.

Spain's renewed popularity comes after many families looked for alternative
value-for-money holidays in the wake of the Tunisia terror attacks.

The Foreign Office raised Tunisia's terrorism threat level to 'high' earlier
this month.

Meanwhile last minute bookings to Greece have decreased due to the country's
debt crisis.

In the first week of the British summer holidays, the beaches of Levante and
Poniente have been absolutely crammed full of holiday makers.

Thousands of sun umbrellas were propped up in the sand as temperatures on the
coast soared to a sizzling 32C.

Spain recently set a new record for visitors, receiving 29.2million people in
the first six months of 2015 - which was 4.2 per cent more than in the same
period last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 22, 2015 Wednesday 11:48 AM GMT

Only Muslim 7/7 bomb survivor Sajda Mughal reveals mums are oblivious to
extremism in Islam;
The former City professional revealed on Lorraine that she now works with
charity The Jan Trust to combat online radicalisation in a bid to try and
prevent further terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Nicola Agius

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


The only Muslim survivor of the devastating 7/7 London bombings revealed that
mothers in the Islamic community are often completely oblivious to extremism,
during an appearance on Lorraine earlier today.

Sajda Mughal explained to host Fiona Phillips that she now dedicates her life to
combating radicalisation and often finds that Muslim mothers are completely
unaware of groups like ISIS.

"I work with these women on a daily basis because they are the centre of Muslim
families," she said. "But most of them have never heard of the Islamic State.
It's actually quite shocking!

"Quite recently, I gave a talk at a hall packed with Muslim mothers and
honestly, only about 4% of them knew about Islamic extremism. They are just not
aware - I think it's because there is a lack of education.

"They tell us they don't keep up with current affairs. They are very
disconnected. That's why it's so important that we work with these women because
I believe we can prevent another 7/7 from happening."

After surviving the London bombings, Sajda gave up her life in the City to work
full-time with charity The Jan Trust, which empowers and provides leadership for
women.

She works on a programme called Web Guardians with the organisation, which
specifically teaches women about online extremism and how they can help tackle
it.

"I expose Muslim mothers to online radicalisation and show them how they can
counteract it," she added. "I remember 7/7 like it was yesterday; the tears, the
screaming, the thick black smoke smoke, the crying, people banging on doors
trying to escape. I still have flashbacks and nightmares.

"I couldn't digest the news when it was reported that Muslim men did this in the
name of Islam. That is not Islam. Islam teaches that if you take one man's life,
you are killing the whole of humanity.

"That experience left me with so many questions - particularly, how can we stop
this from ever happening again. And that's why I'm a part of this programme."
7/7 survivor who was just 14 when the bombs exploded gives emotional account of
the day

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

Peshmerga repels Islamic State attack northern Iraq, Kills nine "terrorists"

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report by Baghdad-based Iraqi Kurdish Shafaq News website

Shafaq News: A Kurdish security source in Nineveh [province, north of Baghdad]
revealed on Thursday [23 July] that Peshmerga forces repelled an attack by
Islamic State (IS, also known as ISIS/ISIL) terrorist organization on Thursday
night against a neighbourhood in Sinjar town, adding that nine terrorists were
killed, others injured and some technicals and equipment were damaged.

The source said in an interview with [Kurdish privately-owned website] Shafaq
News that IS terrorists launched an attack from Al-Nasir neighbourhood in Sinjar
against Peshmerga locations, adding that the attack was repelled and clashes
continued for more than an hour, in which Peshmerga forces were able to defeat
the terrorists and inflict heavy losses upon IS.

The source added that the international US-led coalition warplanes launched four
raids on IS sites in the mentioned neighbourhood and directed painful strikes to
IS.

The source added that as a result of aerial bombardment of the coalition, an IS
vehicle was destroyed, noting that nine terrorists were killed while a number of
them were wounded but he was not so sure because the clashes took place at
night.

He noted that Peshmerga forces did not have any losses in these clashes.

Source: Shafaq News website, Baghdad, in English 0845gmt 23 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

Turkmen president offers condolences over terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report by state-owned Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel on 22 July

The president of Turkmenistan, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow, has sent a message of
condolence to the president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, over a terrorist
attack in the town of Suruc in Turkey's Sanliurfa province that resulted in
numerous human deaths and casualties.

Turkmenistan, resolutely condemning any form of terrorism and extremism, wholly
supports efforts made by the international community in combating and
eradicating this evil, the message says.

The president of Turkmenistan conveyed words of sympathy and support to the kith
and kin of the killed and wished soonest recovery to the  injured.

Source: Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel, Ashgabat, in Turkmen 1600 gmt 22 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 1:17 PM GMT

British youth admits inciting IS-style terror attack at Anzac Day parade

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 866 words


A 15-year-old British boy has admitted encouraging an Islamic State-inspired
terror attack targeting police officers at an Anzac Day parade in Australia.

Over a 10-day period, the youngster from Lancashire sent thousands of instant
messages to 18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic
terror group, the Old Bailey heard.

Police examined his mobile phone and uncovered the exchanges after he was
arrested on April 2 in the Blackburn area.

In one message on March 18, the boy, who was 14 at the time, said: "Suggest you
break into someone's house and get your first taste of beheading."

Besim replied that it seemed "a little risky".

The smartly-dressed, bespectacled British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting
terrorism, via videolink from Manchester Crown Court.

The charge states that between March 15 and March 26 2015 he "incited a person
to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder
of police officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in
Australia".

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

Outlining the case, prosecutor Paul Greaney QC said: "The defendant has now
pleaded guilty to what was count one on the indictment.

"This charge represents his conduct over 10 days in March 2015 in inciting an
Australia-based man named Sevdet Besim to commit an act of terrorism abroad,
namely the murder of police officers during an attack upon a parade to
commemorate Anzac Day in Melbourne.

"The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone.

"Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation which may be summarised as support for Isis and their
enthusiasm for the attack.

"The messages also set out the plotters' preparations for the attack. On the
18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent Sevdet Besim
a message that read, 'suggest you break into someone's house and get your first
taste of beheading'.

"Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed 'a little risky' and that aspect
of the preparations appears then to have drifted away."

This exchange was the subject of count two on the indictment but Mr Greaney said
it had been deleted because the prosecution was happy to deal with it as "part
and parcel" of the offence in count one.

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports to find out if there was any
"indoctrination" as he adjourned the case for sentencing at Manchester Crown
Court on September 3.

He said: "I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

"Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get."

The boy, who wore a grey shirt and tie, is being held in an unidentified youth
detention centre in the North West of England.

Transcripts of Besim's alleged exchanges with the boy have emerged in Australian
media reports.

According to the reports, the alleged plot was uncovered by secret surveillance
of Besim - a friend of another teenager, Numan Haider, who was shot dead after
being suspected of threatening Australian prime minister Tony Abbott.

Communications allegedly revealed Besim was planning to target police and
intelligence officers with firearms and "a massive machete".

The boy urged him on and suggested videotaping the attack and sending it to an
IS recruiter.

He wrote: "You are a lone wolf, a wolf that begs Allah for forgiveness a wolf
that doesn't fear blame of the blamers. I'm (sic) I right?"

Besim allegedly replied: "Pretty much."

The boy also instructed Besim to "start dressing like a Kuffar", and asked if he
was "willing for a bullet to go through you".

During another conversation days later, the British boy told Besim not to
underestimate the "difficulty of beheading a person" and advised him: "U gotta
be a lion especially that ur doing it in public."

The case comes in the wake of other foiled plots to carry out Lee Rigby-style
killings.

Fusilier Rigby, a drummer and machine gunner with the 2nd Battalion Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers, was killed outside his barracks in Woolwich, south-east
London, in May 2013 by two Islamic extremists who were jailed for life last year
at the Old Bailey.

Michael Adebolajo was given a whole-life sentence while his co-accused Michael
Adebowale was jailed for life with a minimum term of 45 years.

In May this year, 19-year-old Kazi Islam was jailed for eight years for grooming
a young man with learning difficulties to buy the ingredients for a pipe bomb
and to attack one or more soldiers with a kitchen knife or meat cleaver on his
command.

In March, Brusthom Ziamani, 19, was jailed for 22 years for hatching a plot to
behead a British soldier also inspired by the murder of the 25-year-old soldier.

He was arrested in an east London street carrying a 12-inch knife and a hammer
in a rucksack, having earlier researched the location of Army cadet bases in the
south east of the capital.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      July 23, 2015 Thursday 11:09 AM GMT

Gateshead family pay tribute to Lisa Burbidge at funeral for Tunisia terror
victim;
Whickham grandmother Lisa Burbidge died in the Tunisia terror attack on June 26,
and was on Tuesday laid to rest at St Mary's church

BYLINE: By Michael Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 840 words


The family of Tunisia terror attack victim Lisa Burbidge say they will take
solace that their "mam in a million" has been reunited with the "love of her
life."

Scores of mourners queued out of the churchyard to pay their respects to the
Gateshead grandmother-of-four as she was laid to rest at St Mary's church in
Whickham.

And as the tears flowed, those assembled heard how the much-loved 66-year-old
always put her family first - and to her dying day spoke of her pride in her
grandchildren, who said they had lost their "best friend."

"Lisa was a beautiful person, inside and out," Reverend Barry Abbott said. "She
was caring, a loving mother, a doting grandmother and a devoted wife."

Mary Lisa Burbidge was born 14 weeks prematurely, weighing just 2.5lbs, in
Benwell in 1949. Swaddled in cotton wool, doctors at Newcastle General Hospital
gave her little chance of surviving - especially after she dropped to just 2lbs
in weight.

Yet proving them all wrong, she went on to enjoy a life without notable illness,
attending St Joseph's School until she was 15, then going to work in the cash
office of city centre department store Bainbridge's.

Her life changed forever on a night out in 1968 when, on a night out, she
spotted the lead singer of the New Blues Review, Bill Burbidge, performing on
stage.

"She danced in front of him, hoping to catch his eye," Rev Abbott said, "and
with her fondness for false eyelashes and short skirts, coupled to her
reputation as having the 'best legs in Benwell,' it worked. So started one of
the great love stories.

"They were inseparable and within a few months they were engaged."

Gateshead family pay tribute to Lisa Burbidge at funeral for Tunisia terror
victim

Family and friends heard that such was her beauty Lisa was offered modelling
work, but Bill was unsure and told her she must choose between that and
marriage.

"It was an easy choice," Rev Abbot said. "Bill was her world."

The couple married at St Mary's Cathedral in Newcastle when she was 21, with the
pair taking two or three jobs each in order to save for their first family home,
on Axewell Terrace in Swalwell.

They then moved to Rothbury Gardens in Lobley Hill, where through "hard work,
honesty and dedication" they provided a life for daughters Melanie and Louise.

In 1977 the family moved to Whickham, where friends recalled how Lisa and Bill
"still held hands like newlyweds."

"It was no act," said Rev Abbott. "What you saw was how it was - they were kind,
caring and full of love."

"It's very rare to find a couple who spent so much time together, but Lisa and
Bill were joined at the hip," he added. "And they ran their newsagents business
side by side.

"When Bill was diagnosed with cancer in 2004 the pair retired to spend even more
time with one another, and when he passed away in 2005 she was devastated."

Yet she remained a rock for her family, with grandchildren Chloe, Abbie and Anna
all describing Lisa as their "best friend."

"Words can't describe what we have lost," said Chloe, 17. "She was an amazing
woman.

"She was the most giving person and always put family first. And she never had a
bad word for anyone - she'd say no one is perfect, but I believe my grandmother
was perfect in every way and the memories we shared will stay with me forever.

"Though we will no longer see her she will have a special place in our hearts.
God only takes the best, but sadly he's taken my best friend."

Lisa was "a woman of dignity and style with a heart of gold whose role was to
nurture and care for those around her, always putting others before herself,"
Rev Abbott added.

"She loved her mum Betty, Melanie and Louise her wonderful girls, and her
grandchildren with all her heart - a love that will never end."

During the service daughters Melanie and Louise joined Rev Abbott for a poem
titled "Mam in a million" while some of her favourite music - including Tina
Turner's Simply The Best, James Blunt's You're Beautiful and Simply Red's
Holding Back The Years - was played as mourners entered and exited the 900 year
old church.

And the congregation heard the family are taking comfort in the knowledge that
the mum-of-two will be reunited with husband Bill, who died of cancer 10 years
to the day before she lost her life.

Lisa was among 30 British holidaymakers killed in the attack in Sousse on June
26, and Rev Abbott said the pain and tragedy of her death, and that of all who
died or were injured in Tunisia, has "stunned the world."

"Our cities, towns and communities have felt the shock waves of this crime," he
said. "Here, and the surrounding area has seen a great outpouring of support.

"A wave of compassion has grown from this shared pain.

"When one of us is hurt we all hurt. Our community, along with all of Gateshead
have come together to support Lisa's family and the society we cherish."

Loudspeakers relayed the service to people stood on the green outside the packed
church, where scores of floral tributes had been left by local well-wishers.

A private burial was held following the service, with close family in
attendance.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      July 23, 2015 Thursday 10:02 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack hero who acted as 'human shield' to protect fiancee from
gunman is invited back to resort to get MARRIED;
MATHEW James was shot three times as he protected fiancee Saera Wilson from
maniac Seifeddine Rezgui - and he has revealed how locals in Sousse have invited
them back.

BYLINE: By Adam Aspinall

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 824 words


A HERO who acted as a human shield to protect his fiancee during the Tunisia
terror attack has been invited back to the scene of the atrocity - to get
married.

Mathew James is back home recovering after he was shot three times by gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui in last month's attack which killed 38.

The 30-year-old protected fiancee Saera Wilson from the murderous rampage of
maniac Rezgui.

Now back at home in Pontypridd, south Wales, he revealed locals in the resort
town of Sousse have invited the couple back to the murder scene - so they can
get wed, reports our sister paper The Mirror .

But the traumatised couple have politely declined the offer.

Mathew said: "They want us to go back and get married over there. They said they
would pay for us to have our wedding in the same hotel.

"I said 'No!' Can you imagine that? They'd advertise it as the hero coming back
and even if they had armed guards the whole way around the hotel I still
wouldn't be able to do it."

Speaking from the home he shares with bride-to-be Saera in the Welsh valleys it
is hard to believe Mathew was fighting for his life just over a month ago.

The humble gas engineer has made huge progress after bullets pierced his leg,
stomach, arm and chest.

He even suffered a heart attack while being rushed to hospital following the
attack at the beach resort on June 26.

The sickening attack claimed the lives of 30 Britons and eight others who were
mercilessly killed by an Isis terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui in the North African
resort of Sousse.

Medics have since removed two bullets from Mathew's body - one which had broken
into a number of small pieces, the other still intact.

"I wanted to keep it but they wouldn't let me have it," Mathew joked.

More news from across the UK

But he admitted the couple never really felt safe until they had returned to the
UK.

Accompanied by air medics, the couple were flown back to Cardiff by private jet
- paid for by their bank's holiday insurance scheme - within 36 hours of the
shooting.

Saera said: "When we got up in the air in the jet I kept asking where we were.
As soon as they said we were flying over British soil that was when I thought
'Oh my God, we're home'.

"When we landed and got off Mathew's mum and sister and my dad were there.

"They opened the door and I ran across the runway and threw myself on my dad."

Mathew subsequently spent more than two weeks being treated at the University
Hospital of Wales, Heath, Cardiff.

Mathew said: "The doctors are quite shocked. They said I had done really well -
I was up and walking after two or three days of being in the Heath."

Despite his good physical recovery he and Saera suffer from flashbacks following
their horrifying ordeal.

"It is a bit strange going out into busy places.

"It feels weird at the moment - I feel a bit on edge," Mathew said.

"I don't sleep very well and I've had nightmares. I also had a parcel come a
couple of days after I got home.

"It had been here all day and I wouldn't open it because it was only small but
really heavy."

In fact the parcel contained a hard-drive loaded with films sent by a friend for
Mathew to watch during his recovery - rather than the bomb he feared it might
have been.

He added: "The psychologist said I was coping and dealing with it really well.
We don't see a normal psychologist, we see the Army one.

"They thought it would be better because obviously they deal with people who
have been shot and seen their friends get shot."

And the ex-rugby player, who still uses a crutch when walking longer distances,
has been left counting his blessings.

"It was literally split-seconds and millimetres - not even millimetres - which
saved my life," he said.

"If he had walked an inch further down the beach, I'm dead. If he had turned his
barrel another millimetre over, I'm dead.

"If I had reacted a split-second slower, I'm dead, or Saera's dead. It was
millimetres away from hitting my internal organs and if it had hit anything in
there I would have died.

"I was lucky. I am the luckiest man in the world."

Yet despite his ordeal plucky Mathew said he was counting his blessings.

He said: "There's no one luckier than me. There are not many people who can say
they've gone through trauma like that and come out as well as I have.

"I have full function in my body, everything works - I just can't feel my leg,
which is a pretty good sacrifice, really. I'm the luckiest unlucky person on the
planet.

"I don't think you could have been put in a worse situation and come off as well
as I have. You couldn't write it.

"I have got constant pain in my groin - it's like an electric shock going off
the whole time. It never goes away. It feels like someone's stabbing you
constantly with a knife.

"Where the gunshot has gone through they think there might be a few hernias so I
am waiting for a specialist surgeon to have a look. I think that's why I am in
pain.

"But even if I have to put up with that for the rest of my life it's better than
being in a body bag."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

Security Council strongly condemns deadly terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 193 words


The United Nations Security Council has condemned in the strongest terms the
recent terrorist attack in Suruc, Turkey, which killed at least 31 and injuring
over 100 people.



In a statement issued today in New York, the Council underlined the need to
bring perpetrators of "these reprehensible acts of terrorism" to justice. The
attack took place on 20 July.

The 15-member body also extended its condolences to the families of the victims
and their sympathy to all those injured in this heinous attack, as well as to
the people and the Government of Turkey who lost its citizens in this attack.
The Council wished a speedy recovery to those injured.

Further to the statement, the members of the Council reaffirmed the need to
combat by all means, in accordance with the UN Charter, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts, and that any acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever
and by whomsoever committed.

According to the media, an apparent suicide bombing occurred at the Amara
Cultural Park in Suruc, a town bordering Syria.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

US working to detect, block terrorist drone attacks

LENGTH: 527 words


ALEXANDRIA, Virginia (ICIS)--Top US homeland security officials said on
Wednesday they are working with American military forces in Iraq to learn how to
detect and hopefully block terrorist drone attacks on US chemical facilities.

Caitlin Durkovich, assistant secretary at the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), said that her department is working with the Department of Defense (DOD)
to learn how US military forces operating in Iraq detect and block terrorist
attacks by drones, also known as unmanned aerial systems (UAS).

Speaking on the sidelines of the ninth annual Chemical Sector Security Summit
(CSSS), Durkovich said the department is working with DOD "on best practices and
lessons learned in Iraq in dealing with the UAS threat and how to bring those
into the commercial area here".

US refiners, petrochemicals producers and other key infrastructure industry
interests recently raised concerns with the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) over the [1]possible use of drones by terrorists to attack major
refineries or chemical facilities.

French security officials reported earlier on Wednesday [2]that drones may have
been involved in fires set recently at a refinery near Marseille in southern
France.

Durkovich said that the prospect of a drone attack against a US chemical plant
or some other critical infrastructure facility "is a serious threat".

"There are tools available to at least detect a UAS," Durkovich said, "and we
are testing those tools in certain environments."

"We're also looking at ways to intercept these systems," she said, referring to
her department's work with DOD.

"This is a threat that cuts across multiple sectors," she said. "It is not only
a concern for the chemicals sector but for the energy industry and other
commercial areas."

James Dunlap, chief of terrorism tactics and targets in the DHS office of
intelligence and analysis, said that modern drones are inexpensive and easy to
use, unlike earlier UAS that often posed a steep price and learning curve for
operators.

New off-the-shelf drones can be pre-programed for a flight path and essentially
fly by themselves.

"I expect to see more of UAS in this area," Dunlap said, referring to the
potential use of drones by terrorists. "It is only a matter of time before one
is used for something nefarious."

He said that the rapid emergence of low-cost and highly capable drones has
caught federal officials without adequate authority to deal with their wrongful
or terrorist use.

Dunlap said that while some local authorities have use restrictions for drones -
such as around airports, sports stadiums and the like - "there is no
over-arching federal statute to manage the use of drones".

Cosponsored by the DHS and the Chemical Sector Coordinating Council, the summit
runs through Thursday.

Paul Hodges studies key influences shaping the chemical industry in [3]Chemicals
and the Economy

References

1.
https://www.icis.com/subscriber/news/2015/06/25/9897885/insight-us-chemical-make
rs-refiners-warn-of-drone-wars/ 2.
https://www.icis.com/subscriber/news/2015/07/22/9905755/drones-over-french-chemi
cal-site-raise-concerns/ 3. http://www.icis.com/blogs/chemicals-and-the-economy/

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 8:36 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack hero has been invited to return to the resort for his
WEDDING;
Brave Mathew James, 30, was shot three times as he acted as a human shield to
save his beloved fiancee Saera Wilson from the murderous rampage of madman
Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: By Adam Aspinall

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 824 words


A hero of the Tunisia terror attack has revealed he he has been invited back to
the resort - to get MARRIED.

Brave Mathew James, 30, was shot three times as he acted as a human shield to
save his beloved fiancee Saera Wilson from the murderous rampage of madman
Seifeddine Rezgui.

Now back at home and recovering from his injuries in Pontypridd, south Wales, he
revealed locals in the resort town of Sousse have invited the couple back to the
murder scene - so they can get wed.

But the traumatised couple have politely declined the offer.

Mathew said: "They want us to go back and get married over there. They said they
would pay for us to have our wedding in the same hotel.

"I said 'No!' Can you imagine that? They'd advertise it as the hero coming back
and even if they had armed guards the whole way around the hotel I still
wouldn't be able to do it."

Speaking from the home he shares with bride-to-be Saera in the Welsh valleys it
is hard to believe Mathew was fighting for his life just over a month ago.

The humble gas engineer has made huge progress after bullets pierced his leg,
stomach, arm and chest.

He even suffered a heart attack while being rushed to hospital following the
attack at the beach resort on June 26.

The sickening attack claimed the lives of 30 Britons and eight others who were
mercilessly killed by an Isis terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui in the North African
resort of Sousse.

Medics have since removed two bullets from Mathew's body - one which had broken
into a number of small pieces, the other still intact.

"I wanted to keep it but they wouldn't let me have it," Mathew joked.

But he admitted the couple never really felt safe until they had returned to the
UK.

Accompanied by air medics, the couple were flown back to Cardiff by private jet
- paid for by their bank's holiday insurance scheme - within 36 hours of the
shooting.

Saera said: "When we got up in the air in the jet I kept asking where we were.
As soon as they said we were flying over British soil that was when I thought
'Oh my God, we're home'.

"When we landed and got off Mathew's mum and sister and my dad were there.

"They opened the door and I ran across the runway and threw myself on my dad."

Mathew subsequently spent more than two weeks being treated at the University
Hospital of Wales, Heath, Cardiff.

Mathew said: "The doctors are quite shocked. They said I had done really well -
I was up and walking after two or three days of being in the Heath."

Despite his good physical recovery he and Saera suffer from flashbacks following
their horrifying ordeal.

"It is a bit strange going out into busy places.

"It feels weird at the moment - I feel a bit on edge," Mathew said.

"I don't sleep very well and I've had nightmares. I also had a parcel come a
couple of days after I got home.

"It had been here all day and I wouldn't open it because it was only small but
really heavy."

In fact the parcel contained a hard-drive loaded with films sent by a friend for
Mathew to watch during his recovery - rather than the bomb he feared it might
have been.

He added: "The psychologist said I was coping and dealing with it really well.
We don't see a normal psychologist, we see the Army one.

"They thought it would be better because obviously they deal with people who
have been shot and seen their friends get shot."

And the ex-rugby player, who still uses a crutch when walking longer distances,
has been left counting his blessings.

"It was literally split-seconds and millimetres - not even millimetres - which
saved my life," he said.

"If he had walked an inch further down the beach, I'm dead. If he had turned his
barrel another millimetre over, I'm dead.

Doctor who treated hero that shielded his fiancee from Tunisia gunman's bullets

"If I had reacted a split-second slower, I'm dead, or Saera's dead. It was
millimetres away from hitting my internal organs and if it had hit anything in
there I would have died.

"I was lucky. I am the luckiest man in the world."

Yet despite his ordeal plucky Mathew said he was counting his blessings.

He said: "There's no one luckier than me. There are not many people who can say
they've gone through trauma like that and come out as well as I have.

"I have full function in my body, everything works - I just can't feel my leg,
which is a pretty good sacrifice, really. I'm the luckiest unlucky person on the
planet.

"I don't think you could have been put in a worse situation and come off as well
as I have. You couldn't write it.

"I have got constant pain in my groin - it's like an electric shock going off
the whole time. It never goes away. It feels like someone's stabbing you
constantly with a knife.

"Where the gunshot has gone through they think there might be a few hernias so I
am waiting for a specialist surgeon to have a look. I think that's why I am in
pain.

"But even if I have to put up with that for the rest of my life it's better than
being in a body bag."

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 1:07 PM BST

BRITISH YOUTH ADMITS INCITING IS-STYLE TERROR ATTACK AT ANZAC DAY PARADE

BYLINE: Emily Pennink, Press Association Old Bailey Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1621 words


A 15-year-old British boy has admitted encouraging an Islamic State-inspired
terror attack targeting police officers at an Anzac Day parade in Australia.

Over a 10-day period, the youngster from Lancashire sent thousands of instant
messages to 18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic
terror group, the Old Bailey heard.

Police examined his mobile phone and uncovered the exchanges after he was
arrested on April 2 in the Blackburn area.

In one message on March 18, the boy, who was 14 at the time, said: ``Suggest you
break into someone's house and get your first taste of beheading.''

Besim replied that it seemed ``a little risky''.

The smartly-dressed, bespectacled British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting
terrorism, via videolink from Manchester Crown Court.

The charge states that between March 15 and March 26 2015 he ``incited a person
to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder
of police officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in
Australia''.

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

Outlining the case, prosecutor Paul Greaney QC said: ``The defendant has now
pleaded guilty to what was count one on the indictment.

``This charge represents his conduct over 10 days in March 2015 in inciting an
Australia-based man named Sevdet Besim to commit an act of terrorism abroad,
namely the murder of police officers during an attack upon a parade to
commemorate Anzac Day in Melbourne.

``The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone.

``Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation which may be summarised as support for Isis and their
enthusiasm for the attack.

``The messages also set out the plotters' preparations for the attack. On the
18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent Sevdet Besim
a message that read, 'suggest you break into someone's house and get your first
taste of beheading'.

``Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed 'a little risky' and that
aspect of the preparations appears then to have drifted away.''

This exchange was the subject of count two on the indictment but Mr Greaney said
it had been deleted because the prosecution was happy to deal with it as ``part
and parcel'' of the offence in count one.

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports to find out if there was any
``indoctrination'' as he adjourned the case for sentencing at Manchester Crown
Court on September 3.

He said: ``I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

``Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get.''

The boy, who wore a grey shirt and tie, is being held in an unidentified youth
detention centre in the North West of England.

Transcripts of Besim's alleged exchanges with the boy have emerged in Australian
media reports.

According to the reports, the alleged plot was uncovered by secret surveillance
of Besim - a friend of another teenager, Numan Haider, who was shot dead after
being suspected of threatening Australian prime minister Tony Abbott.

Communications allegedly revealed Besim was planning to target police and
intelligence officers with firearms and ``a massive machete''.

The boy urged him on and suggested videotaping the attack and sending it to an
IS recruiter.

He wrote: ``You are a lone wolf, a wolf that begs Allah for forgiveness a wolf
that doesn't fear blame of the blamers. I'm (sic) I right?''

Besim allegedly replied: ``Pretty much.''

The boy also instructed Besim to ``start dressing like a Kuffar'', and asked if
he was ``willing for a bullet to go through you''.

During another conversation days later, the British boy told Besim not to
underestimate the ``difficulty of beheading a person'' and advised him: ``U
gotta be a lion especially that ur doing it in public.''

The case comes in the wake of other foiled plots to carry out Lee Rigby-style
killings.

Fusilier Rigby, a drummer and machine gunner with the 2nd Battalion Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers, was killed outside his barracks in Woolwich, south-east
London, in May 2013 by two Islamic extremists who were jailed for life last year
at the Old Bailey.

Michael Adebolajo was given a whole-life sentence while his co-accused Michael
Adebowale was jailed for life with a minimum term of 45 years.

In May this year, 19-year-old Kazi Islam was jailed for eight years for grooming
a young man with learning difficulties to buy the ingredients for a pipe bomb
and to attack one or more soldiers with a kitchen knife or meat cleaver on his
command.

In March, Brusthom Ziamani, 19, was jailed for 22 years for hatching a plot to
behead a British soldier also inspired by the murder of the 25-year-old soldier.

He was arrested in an east London street carrying a 12-inch knife and a hammer
in a rucksack, having earlier researched the location of Army cadet bases in the
south east of the capital.

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

They court was told the two teenagers had a shared intention through their
support for IS.

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports in particular to find out if
there was any ``indoctrination''.

He said: ``I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

``Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get.''

The boy, who wore a grey shirt and tie, is being held in an unidentified youth
detention centre in the North West of England.

Sentencing was adjourned to September 3 at Manchester Crown Court.

The boy was arrested on April 2 in Blackburn in connection with an alleged plan
to stage an attack at events in Melbourne to mark the centenary of the First
World War Anzac landings.

He was detained again after officers examined ``devices'' and uncovered
communications with a man in Australia.

Outlining the case, Mr Greaney told the court: ``The defendant has now pleaded
guilty to what was count one on the indictment.

``This charge represents his conduct over 10 days in March 2015 in inciting an
Australia-based man named Sevdet Besim to commit an act of terrorism abroad,
namely the murder of police officers during an attack upon a parade to
commemorate Anzac Day in Melbourne.

``The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone.

``Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation which may be summarised as support for Isis and their
enthusiasm for the attack.

``The messages also set out the plotters' preparations for the attack. On the
18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent Sevdet Besim
a message that read, 'suggest you break into someone's house and get your first
taste of beheading'.

``Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed 'a little risky' and that
aspect of the preparations appears then to have drifted away.''

This exchange was the subject of court two on the indictment but Mr Greaney said
it had been deleted because the prosecution was happy to deal with it as ``part
and parcel'' of the offence in court one.

Transcripts of Besim's alleged exchanges with the boy have emerged in Australian
media reports.

According to the reports, the alleged plot was uncovered by secret surveillance
of Besim - a friend of another teenager Numan Haider, who was suspected of
threatening Australian prime minister Tony Abbott before he was shot dead.

Communications allegedly revealed Besim was planning to target police and
intelligence officers with firearms and ``a massive machete''.

The boy urged him on and suggested video taping the attack and sending it to an
IS recruiter.

He wrote: ``You are a lone wolf, a wolf that begs Allah for forgiveness a wolf
that doesn't fear blame of the blamers. I'm (sic) I right?''

Besim allegedly replied: ``Pretty much.''

The boy also instructed Besim to ``start dressing like a Kuffar'', and asked if
he was ``willing for a bullet to go through you''.

During another conversation days later, the British boy told Besim not to
underestimate the ``difficulty of beheading a person'' and advised him: ``U
gotta be a lion especially that ur doing it in public.''

The case comes in the wake of other foiled plots to carry out Lee Rigby-style
killings.

Fusilier Rigby, a drummer and machine gunner with the 2nd Battalion Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers was killed outside his barracks in Woolwich, south-east
London, in May 2013 by two Islamic extremists who were jailed for life last year
at the Old Bailey.

Michael Adebolajo was given a whole-life sentence while his co-accused Michael
Adebowale was jailed for life with a minimum term of 45 years.

In May this year, 19-year-old Kazi Islam was jailed for eight years for grooming
a young man with learning difficulties to buy the ingredients for a pipe bomb
and to attack one or more soldiers with a kitchen knife or meat cleaver on his
command.

In March, Brusthom Ziamani, 19, was jailed for 22 years for hatching a plot to
behead a British soldier also inspired by the murder of the 25-year-old soldier.

He was arrested in an east London street carrying a 12-inch knife and a hammer
in a rucksack, having earlier researched the location of Army cadet bases in the
south east of the capital.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                      Regional Press Releases: North West

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 1:16 PM BST

BRITISH YOUTH ADMITS INCITING IS-STYLE TERROR ATTACK AT ANZAC DAY PARADE

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 646 words


A 15-year-old British boy from Lancashire has admitted encouraging an Islamic
State-inspired terror attack targeting police officers at an Anzac Day parade in
Australia.

Over a 10-day period, the youngster sent thousands of instant messages to
18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic terror
group, the Old Bailey heard.

Police examined his mobile phone and uncovered the exchanges after he was
arrested on April 2 in the Blackburn area.

In one message on March 18, the boy, who was 14 at the time, said: ``Suggest you
break into someone's house and get your first taste of beheading.''

Besim replied that it seemed ``a little risky''.

The smartly-dressed, bespectacled British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting
terrorism, via videolink from Manchester Crown Court.

The charge states that between March 15 and March 26 2015 he ``incited a person
to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder
of police officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in
Australia''.

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

Outlining the case, prosecutor Paul Greaney QC said: ``The defendant has now
pleaded guilty to what was count one on the indictment.

``This charge represents his conduct over 10 days in March 2015 in inciting an
Australia-based man named Sevdet Besim to commit an act of terrorism abroad,
namely the murder of police officers during an attack upon a parade to
commemorate Anzac Day in Melbourne.

``The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone.

``Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation which may be summarised as support for Isis and their
enthusiasm for the attack.

``The messages also set out the plotters' preparations for the attack. On the
18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent Sevdet Besim
a message that read, 'suggest you break into someone's house and get your first
taste of beheading'.

``Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed 'a little risky' and that
aspect of the preparations appears then to have drifted away.''

This exchange was the subject of count two on the indictment but Mr Greaney said
it had been deleted because the prosecution was happy to deal with it as ``part
and parcel'' of the offence in count one.

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports to find out if there was any
``indoctrination'' as he adjourned the case for sentencing at Manchester Crown
Court on September 3.

The boy, who wore a grey shirt and tie, is being held in an unidentified youth
detention centre in the North West of England.

Transcripts of Besim's alleged exchanges with the boy have emerged in Australian
media reports.

According to the reports, the alleged plot was uncovered by secret surveillance
of Besim - a friend of another teenager, Numan Haider, who was shot dead after
being suspected of threatening Australian prime minister Tony Abbott.

Communications allegedly revealed Besim was planning to target police and
intelligence officers with firearms and ``a massive machete''.

The boy urged him on and suggested videotaping the attack and sending it to an
IS recruiter.

He wrote: ``You are a lone wolf, a wolf that begs Allah for forgiveness a wolf
that doesn't fear blame of the blamers. I'm (sic) I right?''

Besim allegedly replied: ``Pretty much.''

The boy also instructed Besim to ``start dressing like a Kuffar'', and asked if
he was ``willing for a bullet to go through you''.

During another conversation days later, the British boy told Besim not to
underestimate the ``difficulty of beheading a person'' and advised him: ``U
gotta be a lion especially that ur doing it in public.'' end

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Surrey Mirror

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

Woman's terror as masked duo attack her in own kitchen

BYLINE: Jenny Seymour jenny.seymour@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 359  words


A woman was thrown to the floor of her  Reigate kitchen late at night by masked
men who  ripped jewellery from her body.

Her  ordeal came just  three days after a delivery man was held up at knifepoint
and tied up by three hooded men just half a mile away. Detectives have appealed
for witnesses to help trace the robbers.

Inspector Angie Austin sought to reassure the community. "The fact we have had a
couple of incidents involving violence within a short space of time may concern
some people," she said. "However, it is important to note they are being
investigated as two separate offences. Both are isolated  and quite rare for
Reigate."

The  aggravated burglary happened at 11.50pm last Tuesday as the victim, in her
50s, was   alone in her kitchen in Blackborough Close.

Two men, wearing masks and hoods, burst in  and demanded cash and their victim's
phone.

They threw her to the floor, ripped a diamond-encrusted Tag Heuer watch from her
wrist and tried to pull off her earrings. They also took  £40  from her purse
before fleeing in a dark vehicle.

Detective Constable Kirsty Webb said: "This was a traumatic experience for the
woman, who was taken  unaware in her own home by two masked men who were not
afraid to use violence to get what they wanted.

"We are appealing for anyone  who saw anyone suspicious in the area or around
the time of the robbery to come forward." Both attackers wore dark clothing and
one was slim with blue eyes.

Three days earlier, at 10.30pm on  July 11, a kebab delivery driver had just
dropped off an order in St Mary's Road when he was set   upon by three hooded
men, who threatened him with a knife. They stole his wallet and delivery money
before tying him up. The victim was uninjured but  shaken.

His attackers were black and in their late teens. One was   6ft, of slim build,
with a beard and short  dark hair wearing a dark-red hooded top,  blue jeans and
white trainers. The second was  stockier,  shaven and wearing a black Nike
hooded top and tracksuit bottoms. The third  had a scar on his right cheek and
wore a dark hooded top and dark tracksuit bottoms.

If you can help the police investigation,  call  101.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAUMATIC: A violent robbery took place in Blackborough Close, Reigate
TRAUMATIC: A violent robbery took place in Blackborough Close, Reigate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 7:27 PM GMT

How did these terror attacks during the last 20 years change the world?;
Big Question long read: The London 7/7 attack raised fears of terrorists among
home-grown citizens but other atrocities have also changed how we perceive
terrorism. Academics from King's College London explain how

BYLINE: By King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2973 words


It has been nearly a month since the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia, during
which a gunman shot dead 38 people including 30 Britons .

It was the biggest Islamic State -linked attack on British citizens and was the
latest terror incident in which Westerners were targeted.

And on Wednesday it was the fourth anniversary of the attack by far-Right
fanatic Anders Behring Breivik, a reminder of the threat of terrorism from the
far-Right as well as Islamist extremists remains.

The Telegraph asked experts and academics at King's College London what the
impact of these attacks were on the world from the US embassy bombings in Kenya
and Tanzania in 1998 to the Tunisia attack in June this year.

US Embassy bombings in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi, August 1998

On August 7, al-Qaeda came to the attention of the US public after their twin
attack on US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya. More than 220 people were killed
and thousands injured. But what was the impact of this attack?

Pascal Carlucci, PhD researcher, department of defence studies

They were the first complex attack on the United States - a global superpower -
by a transnational terrorist network called al-Qaeda. These attacks were the
first chapter of what was later called the 'War on Terror'. Striking
simultaneously two US embassies in two different African countries (Kenya and
Tanzania) gave geopolitical depth to the strategy Osama bin Laden had in mind:
lure the US into a protracted conflict that will ultimately reduce its power in
the region.

The US responded with missile strikes in Sudan and Afghanistan, and public
opinion was introduced for the first time to global terrorism.

<em class="bold">Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, lecturer/research fellow,
International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR) <em class="italic"
/>

The 1998 al-Qaeda attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania should have
changed the world, but they didn't. Instead, the group was practically ignored,
with then US President Bill Clinton's response amounting to the launch of a
series of half-hearted and unsuccessful air strikes on what were thought to be
al-Qaeda bases in Afghanistan and Sudan.

Unfortunately, it took the devastation of 9/11 to wake us all up to this threat.
Had al-Qaeda been taken more seriously at the time, it might have been crushed
before it was able to better establish itself in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

September 11 attacks, 2001

Nearly 3,000 people were killed and thousands more injured after al-Qaeda
co-ordinated four attacks on the US on one day . The impact of such atrocities
is still felt today in the US and the Middle East.

Jill S. Russell, department of war studies

Despite its shock and destruction, 9/11's importance must be reckoned for its
formative political effect. The policies and conflicts that followed were not
the necessary responses to the threat but rather the expression of a particular
sense of the American place in history, of the neo-conservative faith in the
exceptionalism of American power to remake the world in its image or at least
its preference.

Despite its apparent loss of favour recently, the unyielding shape of perception
and action that flowed from this geopolitical ideology continues to influence
world events. There is little doubt that al-Qaeda and the associated new
generation of fundamentalist political violence it spearheaded is a significant
problem in today's international system, but that world of threat is as much now
shaped by the American response to 9/11 as by the action of these movements.

2002 Dubrovka theatre crisis and 2004 Beslan school siege, Russia

In October 2002, 40 Chechen militants took 912 hostages at the Dubrovka Theatre
in Moscow . The siege lasted for three days until sleeping gas was pumped into
the hall by Russian security services. All the attackers were killed as the
services stormed the theatre but 130 hostages died. According to the BBC, some
apparently died because of the effects of the gas.

Two years later in September 2004, 1,200 children and adults were held hostage
at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia, Russia, by Chechen gunman. The siege also
ended after three days with more than 330 killed including 186 children and more
than 700 injured.

But what was the impact of these attacks?

Giorgio Bertolin, PhD candidate, department of defence studies

Both the attackers and the countering forces overcame boundaries related to the
involvement of civilians. At the Dubrovka theatre, Spetsnaz units stormed the
building after having dispersed an incapacitating chemical agent. All of the
terrorists were neutralised, and 130 hostages lost their lives.

In Beslan, terrorists deliberately targeted a primary school. The standoff
between Chechen separatists and federal authorities ended up with 385 civilian
casualties, including 186 children. Despite tight restrictions on media
coverage, these attacks deeply unsettled Russian society. Both crises paved the
way for a subsequent authoritarian tilt in Russian politics.

Beheading of Daniel Pearl in Karachi, Pakistan, 2002

The South Asia bureau chief at the Wall Street Journal was beheaded in Pakistan
after he was kidnapped in Karachi .

Zoha Waseem, PhD candidate, department of war studies

Years before Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) terrorised the world
through recordings of abducted foreigners being decapitated, the video of an
infamous beheading in Pakistan exposed the country's internal vulnerabilities.
It unveiled the footprints of al-Qaeda in Pakistan's financial hub Karachi, and
become the first major attack in a series against foreigners that continue.

Daniel Pearl was kidnapped in Karachi in January 2002 and decapitated nine days
later. His remains were found in May, long after the video had gone viral
online. The mastermind of the attack was a British-born Pakistani, Omar Saeed
Shaikh who had studied at the London School of Economics. This attack changed
the world in that it recognised sprawling metropolises as the new, and far more
complex, battlefields in the war on terror. Further, it corrected the
misunderstanding that all terrorists are uneducated, poor, or pathological.

Bali attacks, 2002 and 2005

In October 2002 in the tourist district of Kuta on the Indonesian island of Bali
202 people were killed and a similar number injured in an attack by Jemaah
Islamiyah, an extremist Islamist group.

Three years later, there were further suicide and car bomb attacks in Bali
during which 20 people were killed and 100 wounded committed by the same group.

Frederic Ischebeck-Baum, an intelligence and security researcher at KCL and a
fellow of the Cambridge Security Initiative.

The 2002 and 2005 Bali attacks are prime examples of successful terror campaigns
conducted by the known group Jemaah Islamiyah, and in the case of 2002 with the
explicit backing of al-Qaeda figure Osama bin Laden. Just as the recent attack
in Tunisia, these events touched the population in a much deeper place than
conventional threats usually do. As for the latter, the public don't necessarily
see themselves as targets: the state is.But in the terrorism we see today, the
public are the target whereas the state is an indirect one.

The attacks were meant to teach us that there is no place to hide, no place to
rest, not even during Ramadan or behind the gates of a remote holiday resort far
away from the big cities. One of the main intentions of terrorism along with
spreading fear and panic is to initiate political change. It is indeed a very
sophisticated concept to address the only authority that can make this change
happen in a democratic society: the public themselves.

The West will need the help of the Islamic society in order to tackle this
problem successfully. This is not only a struggle for physical security; it is
first of all a struggle for ideology. In other words, to play the devil's
advocate, we are in the midst of a propaganda war.

Madrid train bombings, 2004

Nearly 200 people were killed and 1,800 injured after al-Qaeda militants<em
class="bold" />bombed four trains in co-ordinated attacks.

Charles Kirchofer, PhD candidate, King's College London

The 2004 bombing attack on Madrid commuter trains killed over 190 people and
injured 1,400 or more in what the New York Times declared was 'the deadliest
terrorist attack on a European target since the Second World War'. It was also a
new al-Qaeda tactic: pick off the US's less committed allies rather than hitting
the US itself. Timed right before Spanish elections, it worked: the Popular
Party had backed the Iraq War and was expected to win the election. It lost.

London public transport July 7, 2005

Fifty-two people were killed after Islamist extremists set off three explosions
on London Underground trains and one later on a London bus. The four suicide
bombers died but their actions left many dead and 700 people injured.

Maryyum Mehmood, PhD researcher, department of war studies

The 7/7 attacks 10 years ago had a tremendous effect on the world and how we
perceive security threats. Although the international community was already in
the midst of fighting global terror post-9/11, the atrocities of 7/7 altered
this dynamic. Unlike 9/11, the attacks of 7/7 were carried out by native British
citizens. The aftermath of 7/7 signalled a more robust role played by Britain in
the war on terror.

Specifically, it meant tighter security measures to tackle extremism at home,
which to some degree has unfortunately resulted in exacerbating intercommunity
hostility unlike ever before.

Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, lecturer/research fellow, International Centre for
the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR)

While it may be hyperbolic to suggest that the July 2005 attacks in London
changed the world, they certainly represent a watershed moment for Britain and
Europe's perception of the threat from global jihadism. When Mohammed Siddique
Khan and his fellow plotters detonated their suicide vests on the London
transport system, we were all in shock. This is not only because we had just
witnessed one of the worst terrorist attacks in British history, but because it
was carried out by one of our own; seemingly well-integrated British-born men of
Pakistani origin.

Mumbai November, 2008

Ten Pakistani Militants associated with the terror group Lashkar-e-Tayyiba
killed 164 people after storming several buildings in the Indian city . Nine
were killed and then tenth was later executed for his crimes.

<em class="bold">Tim Willasey-Wilsey,<em class="bold" />visiting senior research
fellow, King's College London and former Foreign Office director

In the "marauding attack" in Mumbai, 10 terrorists killed 164 victims at various
locations across the city . Although they came from Pakistan heavily armed with
assault rifles and grenades and carried out a well-prepared plan, the
"marauding" element has provided the inspiration for several subsequent, less
well-resourced, terrorist events; at the 2013 Westgate Mall in Nairobi, the 2014
Kunming attack in China and even the Tunisian beach attack of June 2015.

By instantly running amok and attacking members of the public, the terrorists
negated the tactics which police and security services had developed for
terrorist incidents since the 1970s. The aim had always been to take the heat
out of an incident, cordon the area and begin tactical negotiations. Now
counter-terrorist specialists are unlikely to reach the scene until after the
damage has been done

Anders Behring Breivik, Norway 2011

The Right-wing extremist killed 77 people in the worst peacetime atrocity in
Norway, claiming he was fighting against multiculturalism and a "Muslim
invasion".

Joana Cook, PhD candidate, department of war studies

The Norway attack provided a sober reminder that it is flawed and dangerous to
focus predominantly on groups who purport to be Islamic. Breivik was inspired by
Right-wing ideology and fears of multiculturalism and Islamification - themes
currently permeating many Right-wing extremist groups and individuals across the
West. Breivik's case also emphasises the threat that lone wolves can play, and
the challenges in identifying them.

Responsible for 77 casualties, he carried out the most lethal attack by an
individual actor in modern European history. Breivik had previous contact with,
though no formal membership of, an extremist group in 2011.

Kunming massacre in China, March 2014

Five Muslim separatists ran amok with knives at Kunming railway station in
south-west China, killing 31 and wounding 141 members of the public.

Tim Willasey-Wilsey, visiting senior research fellow

A disconcerting new dimension to terrorism emerged in March 2014 after the
attack at Kunming railway station. The attack showed clearly how terrorists
adapt methods they have seen on TV or online to their own local circumstances.

This attack owed much to the "marauding" method used to such brutal effect in
Mumbai in November 2008 but with the lowest technology of weapons. Procurement
of weapons is a dangerous moment for any terrorist plot but no security or
police service can effectively monitor the possession and use of knives.

The army public school attack in Peshawar, Pakistan December 2014

Taliban gunmen stormed a military-run school in the north-western Pakistani city
of Peshawar on Tuesday, killing at least 141 people, almost all of them
children, in Pakistan's bloodiest ever terror attack.

Zoha Waseem, PhD candidate

Upon the formation of the terrorist network Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan in 2007,
Pakistan carried out multiple military operations against terrorists within the
country. The current Operation Zarb-e-Azb suffered a huge blowback from the
attack on Peshawar's Army Public School that claimed 146 lives, including 132
children.

The attack drew widespread condemnation from across the international community,
escalated Pakistan's military operations countrywide, and became a stark
reminder that terrorists can penetrate even the most secure military
infrastructures in urban areas through careful co-ordination. It has also
increased international focus on the growing trend of terrorist attacks on
schools in countries including Nigeria, Iraq and Afghanistan.

Charlie Hebdo attack, January 2015

Seventeen people were killed in Paris during the three-day siege by Islamist
extremists who stormed the French satirical magazine's offices, killing 12. The
day after, an accomplice to the Hebdo attackers killed a policeman and two days
after the Hebdo attack, Amedy Coulibaly took people hostage in a kosher
supermarket which ended with four people killed .

Pablo de Orellana, teaching fellow, department of war studies

The attack on Charlie Hebdo, a (hilarious) defender of French republican
secularism, by French-born Chérif and Saïd Kouachi revealed how Isil exploits
immigrant grievances, not only luring them to Syria, but in Europe.

France's policies of assimilation and secularism require immigrants to reject
previous cultural identities and become French, to which graffiti I saw in
Saint-Denis responded 'and now what, do we become white?'

Considered in relation to frequent riots by second-generation immigrants in
Paris, the Charlie Hebdo attacks suggest a dangerous link between Islamic
militancy and the assimilation policies, anti-immigration sentiment and
xenophobia that stigmatise immigrants and their children.

Nick Kaderbhai, MA student and research fellow at the ICSR

'I do not condone the murder of cartoonists, but...' This adage became a
nauseating cliché in the days following the attacks. While excusing Islamist
terrorism is a continued trend, 'Charlie Hebdo' remains unique. Unable to draw
the usual causal connection back to a Western government, and refusing to
acknowledge the autonomy of the attackers, a clique of commentators focused the
blame on the cartoonists, thus implicating them in their own murder. This
betrayal may not have changed the world, but it has compromised the world's
ability to create a united voice against an indiscriminate threat.

Charleston church shooting, June 2015

A mass shooting took place at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in
Charleston, South Carolina during which nine African-Americans were killed by a
white supremacist. Dylann Roof, the suspected gunman, now faces hate crime
charges as well as nine charges of murder and three of attempted murder.

Anne Miles, PhD candidate and teaching associate

The racially and politically motivated murders of nine men and women in
Charleston's historic Emanuel AME Church exposed the post-9/11 Western tendency
to define terrorism along racial and religious lines. Americans were reminded
that domestic anti-terrorism activities traditionally focused on attacks carried
out by white men, including the Oklahoma City and Olympic Park bombings, and
that white supremacist groups are among America's oldest continuing terrorist
threats.

America's inadequate initial response to this attack should serve as an example
to the United Kingdom, France, and others whose national discourses often
conflate the strategy of terrorism with the ideology of Islamic extremism.

Sousse attack, June 2015

Francesco Milan, PhD, department of war studies

Two main observations can be drawn from the recent terrorist attack that killed
38 tourists on the beaches of Sousse, Tunisia. First and foremost, it seems
Seifeddine Rezgui, the 23-year old university student who carried out the
attack, was very much closer to what Raffaello Pantucci defines a "suburban
terrorist" than he was to a "traditional" one.

"This once again confirms that radicalisation now appeals to a much wider
audience (by age and social background) than before. The attack also raises
broader questions about regional security in north Africa, especially as Tunisia
finds itself squeezed between domestic issues and growing instability in
neighbouring Libya."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 4:02 PM GMT

How did these terror attacks during the last 20 years change the world?;
Big Question long read: The London 7/7 attack raised fears of terrorists among
home-grown citizens but other atrocities have also changed how we perceive
terrorism. Academics from King's College London explain how

BYLINE: By King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2680 words


It has been nearly a month since the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia, during
which a gunman shot dead 38 people including 30 Britons .

It was the biggest Islamic State -linked attack on British citizens and was the
latest terror incident in which Westerners were targeted.

And on Wednesday it was the fourth anniversary of the attack by far-Right
fanatic Anders Behring Breivik, a reminder of the threat of terrorism from the
far-Right as well as Islamist extremists remains.

The Telegraph asked experts and academics at King's College London what the
impact of these attacks were on the world from the US embassy bombings in Kenya
and Tanzania in 1998 to the Tunisia attack in June this year.

US Embassy bombings in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi, August 1998

On August 7, al-Qaeda came to the attention of the US public after their twin
attack on US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya. More than 220 people were killed
and thousands injured. But what was the impact of this attack?

Pascal Carlucci, PhD researcher, department of defence studies

They were the first complex attack to the United States - a global superpower -
by a transnational terrorist network called al-Qaeda. These attacks were the
first chapter of what was later called the 'War on Terror'. Striking
simultaneously two US embassies in two different African countries (Kenya and
Tanzania) gave geopolitical depth to the strategy Osama bin Laden had in mind:
lure the US into a protracted conflict that will ultimately reduce its power in
the region.

The US responded with missile strikes in Sudan and Afghanistan, and public
opinion was introduced for the first time to global terrorism.

<em class="bold">Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, lecturer/research fellow,
International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR) <em class="italic"
/>

The 1998 al-Qaeda attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania should have
changed the world, but they didn't. Instead, the group was practically ignored,
with then US President Bill Clinton's response amounting to the launch of a
series of half-hearted and unsuccessful air strikes on what were thought to be
al-Qaeda bases in Afghanistan and Sudan.

Unfortunately, it took the devastation of 9/11 to wake us all up to this threat.
Had al-Qaeda been taken more seriously at the time, it might have been crushed
before it was able to better establish itself in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

September 11 attacks, 2001

Nearly 3,000 people were killed and thousands more injured after al-Qaeda
co-ordinated four attacks on the US on one day . The impact of such atrocities
is still felt today in the US and the Middle East.

Jill S. Russell, department of war studies

Despite its shock and destruction, 9/11's importance must be reckoned for its
formative political effect. The policies and conflicts that followed were not
the necessary responses to the threat but rather the expression of a particular
sense of the American place in history, of the neo-conservative faith in the
exceptionalism of American power to remake the world in its image or at least
its preference.

Despite its apparent loss of favour recently, the unyielding shape of perception
and action that flowed from this geopolitical ideology continues to influence
world events. There is little doubt that al-Qaeda and the associated new
generation of fundamentalist political violence it spearheaded is a significant
problem in today's international system, but that world of threat is as much now
shaped by the American response to 9/11 as by the action of these movements.

2002 Dubrovka theatre crisis and 2004 Beslan school siege, Russia

In October 2002, 40 Chechen militants took 912 hostages at the Dubrovka Theatre
in Moscow . The siege lasted for three days until sleeping gas was pumped into
the hall by Russian security services. All the attackers were killed as the
services stormed the theatre but 130 hostages died. According to the BBC, some
apparently died because of the effects of the gas.

Two years later in September 2004, 1,200 children and adults were held hostage
at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia, Russia, by Chechen gunman. The siege also
ended after three days with more than 330 killed including 186 children and more
than 700 injured.

But what was the impact of these attacks?

Giorgio Bertolin, PhD candidate, department of defence studies

Both the attackers and the countering forces overcame boundaries related to the
involvement of civilians. At the Dubrovka theatre, Spetsnaz units stormed the
building after having dispersed an incapacitating chemical agent. All of the
terrorists were neutralised, and 130 hostages lost their lives.

In Beslan, terrorists deliberately targeted a primary school. The standoff
between Chechen separatists and federal authorities ended up with 385 civilian
casualties, including 186 children. Despite tight restrictions on media
coverage, these attacks deeply unsettled Russian society. Both crises paved the
way for a subsequent authoritarian tilt in Russian politics.

Beheading of Daniel Pearl in Karachi, Pakistan, 2002

The South Asia bureau chief at the Wall Street Journal was beheaded in Pakistan
after he was kidnapped in Karachi .

Zoha Waseem, PhD candidate, department of war studies

Years before Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) terrorised the world
through recordings of abducted foreigners being decapitated, the video of an
infamous beheading in Pakistan exposed the country's internal vulnerabilities.
It unveiled the footprints of al-Qaeda in Pakistan's financial hub Karachi, and
become the first major attack in a series against foreigners that continue.

Daniel Pearl was kidnapped in Karachi in January 2002 and decapitated nine days
later. His remains were found in May, long after the video had gone viral
online. The mastermind of the attack was a British-born Pakistani, Omar Saeed
Shaikh who had studied at the London School of Economics. This attack changed
the world in that it recognised sprawling metropolises as the new, and far more
complex, battlefields in the war on terror. Further, it corrected the
misunderstanding that all terrorists are uneducated, poor, or pathological.

Madrid train bombings, 2004

Nearly 200 people were killed and 1,800 injured after al-Qaeda militants<em
class="bold" />bombed four trains in co-ordinated attacks.

Charles Kirchofer, PhD candidate, King's College London

The 2004 bombing attack on Madrid commuter trains killed over 190 people and
injured 1,400 or more in what the New York Times declared was 'the deadliest
terrorist attack on a European target since the Second World War'. It was also a
new al-Qaeda tactic: pick off the US's less committed allies rather than hitting
the US itself. Timed right before Spanish elections, it worked: the Popular
Party had backed the Iraq War and was expected to win the election. It lost.

London public transport July 7, 2005

Fifty-two people were killed after Islamist extremists set off three explosions
on London Underground trains and one later on a London bus. The four suicide
bombers died but their actions left many dead and 700 people injured.

Maryyum Mehmood, PhD researcher, department of war studies

The 7/7 attacks 10 years ago had a tremendous effect on the world and how we
perceive security threats. Although the international community was already in
the midst of fighting global terror post-9/11, the atrocities of 7/7 altered
this dynamic. Unlike 9/11, the attacks of 7/7 were carried out by native British
citizens. The aftermath of 7/7 signalled a more robust role played by Britain in
the war on terror.

Specifically, it meant tighter security measures to tackle extremism at home,
which to some degree has unfortunately resulted in exacerbating intercommunity
hostility unlike ever before.

Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, lecturer/research fellow, International Centre for
the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR)

While it may be hyperbolic to suggest that the July 2005 attacks in London
changed the world, they certainly represent a watershed moment for Britain and
Europe's perception of the threat from global jihadism. When Mohammed Siddique
Khan and his fellow plotters detonated their suicide vests on the London
transport system, we were all in shock. This is not only because we had just
witnessed one of the worst terrorist attacks in British history, but because it
was carried out by one of our own; seemingly well-integrated British-born men of
Pakistani origin.

Mumbai November, 2008

Ten Pakistani Militants associated with the terror group Lashkar-e-Tayyiba
killed 164 people after storming several buildings in the Indian city . Nine
were killed and then tenth was later executed for his crimes.

<em class="bold">Tim Willasey-Wilsey,<em class="bold" />visiting senior research
fellow, King's College London and former Foreign Office director

In the "marauding attack" in Mumbai, 10 terrorists killed 164 victims at various
locations across the city . Although they came from Pakistan heavily armed with
assault rifles and grenades and carried out a well-prepared plan, the
"marauding" element has provided the inspiration for several subsequent, less
well-resourced, terrorist events; at the 2013 Westgate Mall in Nairobi, the 2014
Kunming attack in China and even the Tunisian beach attack of June 2015.

By instantly running amok and attacking members of the public, the terrorists
negated the tactics which police and security services had developed for
terrorist incidents since the 1970s. The aim had always been to take the heat
out of an incident, cordon the area and begin tactical negotiations. Now
counter-terrorist specialists are unlikely to reach the scene until after the
damage has been done

Anders Behring Breivik, Norway 2011

The Right-wing extremist killed 77 people in the worst peacetime atrocity in
Norway, claiming he was fighting against multiculturalism and a "Muslim
invasion".

Joana Cook, PhD candidate, department of war studies

The Norway attack provided a sober reminder that it is flawed and dangerous to
focus predominantly on groups who purport to be Islamic. Breivik was inspired by
Right-wing ideology and fears of multiculturalism and Islamification - themes
currently permeating many Right-wing extremist groups and individuals across the
West. Breivik's case also emphasises the threat that lone wolves can play, and
the challenges in identifying them.

Responsible for 77 casualties, he carried out the most lethal attack by an
individual actor in modern European history. Breivik had previous contact with,
though no formal membership of, an extremist group in 2011.

Kunming massacre in China, March 2014

Five Muslim separatists ran amok with knives at Kunming railway station in
south-west China, killing 31 and wounding 141 members of the public.

Tim Willasey-Wilsey, visiting senior research fellow

A disconcerting new dimension to terrorism emerged in March 2014 after the
attack at Kunming railway station. The attack showed clearly how terrorists
adapt methods they have seen on TV or online to their own local circumstances.

This attack owed much to the "marauding" method used to such brutal effect in
Mumbai in November 2008 but with the lowest technology of weapons. Procurement
of weapons is a dangerous moment for any terrorist plot but no security or
police service can effectively monitor the possession and use of knives.

The army public school attack in Peshawar, Pakistan December 2014

Taliban gunmen stormed a military-run school in the north-western Pakistani city
of Peshawar on Tuesday, killing at least 141 people, almost all of them
children, in Pakistan's bloodiest ever terror attack.

Zoha Waseem, PhD candidate

Upon the formation of the terrorist network Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan in 2007,
Pakistan carried out multiple military operations against terrorists within the
country. The current Operation Zarb-e-Azb suffered a huge blowback from the
attack on Peshawar's Army Public School that claimed 146 lives, including 132
children.

The attack drew widespread condemnation from across the international community,
escalated Pakistan's military operations countrywide, and became a stark
reminder that terrorists can penetrate even the most secure military
infrastructures in urban areas through careful co-ordination. It has also
increased international focus on the growing trend of terrorist attacks on
schools in countries including Nigeria, Iraq and Afghanistan.

Charlie Hebdo attack, January 2015

Seventeen people were killed in Paris during the three-day siege by Islamist
extremists who stormed the French satirical magazine's offices, killing 12. The
day after, an accomplice to the Hebdo attackers killed a policeman and two days
after the Hebdo attack, Amedy Coulibaly took people hostage in a kosher
supermarket which ended with four people killed .

Pablo de Orellana, teaching fellow, department of war studies

The attack on Charlie Hebdo, a (hilarious) defender of French republican
secularism, by French-born Chérif and Saïd Kouachi revealed how Isil exploits
immigrant grievances, not only luring them to Syria, but in Europe.

France's policies of assimilation and secularism require immigrants to reject
previous cultural identities and become French, to which graffiti I saw in
Saint-Denis responded 'and now what, do we become white?'

Considered in relation to frequent riots by second-generation immigrants in
Paris, the Charlie Hebdo attacks suggest a dangerous link between Islamic
militancy and the assimilation policies, anti-immigration sentiment and
xenophobia that stigmatise immigrants and their children.

Nick Kaderbhai, MA student and research fellow at the ICSR

'I do not condone the murder of cartoonists, but...' This adage became a
nauseating cliché in the days following the attacks. While excusing Islamist
terrorism is a continued trend, 'Charlie Hebdo' remains unique. Unable to draw
the usual causal connection back to a Western government, and refusing to
acknowledge the autonomy of the attackers, a clique of commentators focused the
blame on the cartoonists, thus implicating them in their own murder. This
betrayal may not have changed the world, but it has compromised the world's
ability to create a united voice against an indiscriminate threat.

Charleston church shooting, June 2015

A mass shooting took place at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in
Charleston, South Carolina during which nine African-Americans were killed by a
white supremacist. Dylann Roof, the suspected gunman, now faces hate crime
charges as well as nine charges of murder and three of attempted murder.

Anne Miles, PhD candidate and teaching associate

The racially and politically motivated murders of nine men and women in
Charleston's historic Emanuel AME Church exposed the post-9/11 Western tendency
to define terrorism along racial and religious lines. Americans were reminded
that domestic anti-terrorism activities traditionally focused on attacks carried
out by white men, including the Oklahoma City and Olympic Park bombings, and
that white supremacist groups are among America's oldest continuing terrorist
threats.

America's inadequate initial response to this attack should serve as an example
to the United Kingdom, France, and others whose national discourses often
conflate the strategy of terrorism with the ideology of Islamic extremism.

Sousse attack, June 2015

Francesco Milan, PhD, department of war studies

Two main observations can be drawn from the recent terrorist attack that killed
38 tourists on the beaches of Sousse, Tunisia. First and foremost, it seems
Seifeddine Rezgui, the 23-year old university student who carried out the
attack, was very much closer to what Raffaello Pantucci defines a "suburban
terrorist" than he was to a "traditional" one.

"This once again confirms that radicalisation now appeals to a much wider
audience (by age and social background) than before. The attack also raises
broader questions about regional security in north Africa, especially as Tunisia
finds itself squeezed between domestic issues and growing instability in
neighbouring Libya."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 23, 2015 Thursday 4:00 PM GMT

Boy, 15, admits inciting Anzac Day terror attack in Australia;
The boy, from the North West, pleads guilty to inciting an act of terror in
Australia during an Anzac Day parade

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor, and Martin Evans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 587 words


A 15-year-old boy from the North West has become Britain's youngest terrorist
after pleaded guilty to directing a Lee Rigby style terror plot on the other
side of the world.

The schoolboy, who was just 14 at the time, has admitted inciting an 18-year-old
Australian jihadist to behead and kill police officers attending an Anzac Day
parade in Melbourne, Australia, earlier this year.

The teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to one count
of inciting terrorism overseas, when he appeared at the Old Bailey via videolink
from Manchester Crown Court.

· Anzac Day 'plot': British boy, 14, accused of directing terror plot and
encouraging a beheading

Looking younger than his age, the boy, who was wearing spectacles, a grey shirt
and striped tie, was accompanied to court by his father and listened intently
throughout the 20 minute hearing.

Asked how he pleaded to the charge of inciting a terror attack overseas, the boy
answered "guilty" in a clear voice.

The court heard how the plot had been hatched and planned during thousands of
messages that were exchanged between the schoolboy and 18-year-old Sevdet Besim,
who was arrested before he could act and is now awaiting trial in his native
Australia.

In the messages the teenager encouraged Besim to launch a terrorist outrage
against police officers at an Anzac Day parade in Melbourne.

Setting out the basic details of the case, Paul Greaney QC, prosecuting said:
"The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone.

"Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation (which may be summarised as support for ISIS) and their
enthusiasm for the attack. The messages also set out the plotters' preparations
for the attack.

"On the 18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent
Sevdet Besim a message that read, "suggest you break into someone's house and
get your first taste of beheading".

"Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed 'a little risky' and that aspect
of the preparations appears then to have drifted away."

In another message the boy warned Besim, who he described as "lone wolf", not to
underestimate the difficulty of beheading someone, telling him: "U gotta be a
lion especially that ur doin it in public."

The boy is understood to have plotted the outrage from the bedroom of his smart
home, without the knowledge of his parents.

Mr Greaney explained that the defendant had originally faced two charges of
incitement, including the allegation that he had encouraged Besim to behead
someone.

However he said the prosecution were now content to regard that allegation as
"part and parcel" of the overall plot.

But he added: "The Court will, however, be able to reflect all of the facts and
circumstances of the case, including the incitement to behead, in the sentence
it passes."

The judge in the case, Mr Justice Saunders, ordered pre-sentence reports in
particular to find out if there was any "indoctrination".

He said: "I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

"Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get."

The boy is currently being held at a youth detention centre in the north west of
England and is due to be sentenced at Manchester Crown Court on September 3.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 23, 2015 Thursday 11:37 AM GMT

Boy, 15, admits inciting Anzac Day terror attack in Australia;
The boy, from the North West, pleads guilty to inciting an act of terror in
Australia during an Anzac Day parade

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor, and Martin Evans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


A 15-year-old boy from the North West has pleaded guilty to inciting an act of
terror in Australia during an Anzac Day parade.

Appearing at the Old Bailey via a video link from Manchester Crown Court, the
teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to inciting an
Australian jihadist to kill police officers at a parade in Melbourne.

· Anzac Day 'plot': British boy, 14, accused of directing terror plot and
encouraging a beheading

The court heard that the schoolboy, who was just 14 at the time, exchanged
thousands of messages with 18-year-old Australian, Sevdet Besim, encouraging him
to carry out a terrorist outrage at an Anzac Day parade.

The boy, who was wearing spectacles, a grey shirt and striped tie, sat alongside
his father and listened intently during the hearing.

The court heard how the plot was hatched during a ten day period in March this
year.

Paul Greaney QC, prosecuting said: "The evidence of this plot derives from
literally thousands of instant messages between the defendant and Sevdet Besim
recovered from the defendant's mobile telephone.

"Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation (which may be summarised as support for ISIS) and their
enthusiasm for the attack. The messages also set out the plotters' preparations
for the attack.

"On the 18th March 2015, as part of those preparations, the defendant sent
Sevdet Besim a message that read, "suggest you break into someone's house and
get your first taste of beheading".

"Sevdet Besim responded to say that this seemed "a little risky" and that aspect
of the preparations appears then to have drifted away."

Mr Greaney explained that the defendant had originally faced two charges of
incitement, including the allegation that he had incited Besim to behead
someone.

However he said the prosecution were now content to regard that allegation as
"part and parcel" of the overall plot.

But he addedL "The Court will, however, be able to reflect all of the facts and
circumstances of the case, including the incitement to behead, in the sentence
it passes."

The judge in the case, Mr Justice Saunders, ordered pre-sentence reports in
particular to find out if there was any "indoctrination".

He said: "I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

"Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get."

The boy is currently being held in an unidentified youth detention centre in the
north west of England.

He is due to be sentenced at Manchester Crown Court on September 3.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 23, 2015 Thursday 10:15 AM GMT

Boy, 15, admits inciting Anzac Day terror attack in Australia;
The boy, from the North West, pleads guilty to inciting an act of terror in
Australia during an Anzac Day parade

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor, and Martin Evans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


A 15-year-old boy from the North West has pleaded guilty to inciting an act of
terror in Australia during an Anzac Day parade.

Appearing at the Old Bailey via a videolink from Manchester Crown Court, the
teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to inciting an
Australian jihadist to kill police officers at a parade in Melbourne.

· Anzac Day 'plot': British boy, 14, accused of directing terror plot and
encouraging a beheading

The court heard that the schoolboy, who was just 14 at the time, exchanged
thousands of messages with 18-year-old Australian, Sevdet Besim, encouraging him
to carry out a terrorist outrage at an Anzac Day parade.

The boy, who was wearing spectacles, a grey shirt and striped tie, sat alongside
his father and listened intently during the hearing.

The court heard how the boy was 14 at the time he was communicating with
18-year-old Sevdet Besim in Australia via thousands of instant messages.

They had a shared intention through their support for IS, the court was told.

On March 18, the boy sent a message saying "suggest you break into someone's
house and get your first taste of beheading".

The response was that "seemed a little risky".

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports in particular to find out if
there was any "indoctrination".

He said: "I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process.

"Dealing with someone of this age is an extremely difficult sentencing process
and I will need all the help I can get."

The boy is currently being held in an unidentified youth detention centre in the
north west of England.

The teenager is due to be sentenced at Manchester Crown Court on September 3.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Tajikistan foils terror attacks on police stations

LENGTH: 285 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Tajik Avesta website on 24 July

The Tajik Interior Ministry has reported that it has thwarted a series of
terrorists attacks, which were supposed to be carried out by suspected
terrorists in the last 10 days of the holy month of Ramadan [around 8-17 July].

The ministry's press service said that officers of the department for combatting
organized crime had detained two people - traders in the capital's Korvon market
- on suspicion of plotting a number of terrorist attacks across the country.

Specifically, they detained the main would-be perpetrator of the attacks,
Bobojon Rajabov, who was born in Kulob town in 1990 and who currently lives in
Dushanbe city, along with his accomplice, Sadriddin Jabborob, who is a resident
of Rudaki District.

The report emphasized that the arrested men were planning to blow off a total of
10-12 police stations in Kulob, Dushanbe, Fayzobod and Rasht in the last 10 days
of Ramadan.

For this purpose, the suspects prepared oxygen cylinders and other "devices" to
carry out the terrorist attacks. And to make them more "effective", they were
going to stuff their explosives with metal objects.

According to Bobojon Rajabov, he got in touch via [the Russian social networking
website] Odnoklasniki.ru with a certain Abu Said - a Tajik citizen fighting in
Syria.

He told Abu Said that he was planning to go to Syria to take part in jihad. In
response, Abu Said, who ended up being called by Bobojon Rajabov a teacher, told
the young man that he could carry out jihad in Tajikistan too.

[Passage omitted: Abu Said is said to have given instructions on how to carry
out the attacks]

Source: Avesta website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0340 gmt 24 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Ukrainian police say attack on Kiev bank office terrorist act

LENGTH: 132 words


Excerpt from report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 24 July

[Presenter] The police have qualified a shooting incident at a Kiev branch of
Ukrinbank as a terrorist attack [see "Bank office in Ukrainian capital attacked
with arms - TV",  5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0500 gmt 24 Jul 15].

[Iryna Levchenko, captioned as press secretary of the Interior Ministry's chief
directorate in Kiev] Having analysed all the pieces of evidence collected and
received during a pre-trial investigation and having agreed this with a
prosecutor's office, the criminal proceeding has been re-qualified from
hooliganism to Part 1 Article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a terrorist
attack. Further investigative actions are under way.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1500 gmt 24 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Authorities Dismantle Terrorist Cell Allegedly Planning Attacks

LENGTH: 106  words



HIGHLIGHT: Morocco's interior ministry has announced that the Central Bureau for
Judiciary Investigations has dismantled an eight-member terrorist cell that had
pledged allegiance to the Islamic State (IS) group and was allegedly planning
attacks inside the country.


News: Morocco's interior ministry has announced that the Central Bureau for
Judiciary Investigations has dismantled an eight-member terrorist cell that had
pledged allegiance to the Islamic State (IS) group and was allegedly planning
attacks inside the country. Moroccan authorities stated that the suspects were
arrested in the cities of Tangier and Khouribga as well as in the towns of
Taounate and Bouznika, and were in touch with IS. The ministry statement claimed
the cell planned to host IS fighters travelling to Morocco so that they could
attack security personnel and other targets to destabilise the country (Morocco
World News).

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Six Terrorist Attacks Foiled Since September 2014

LENGTH: 108  words



HIGHLIGHT: Australian security agencies foiled six terrorist attacks since the
national terrorism alert level was raised in September 2014.


News: Australian security agencies foiled six terrorist attacks since the
national terrorism alert level was raised in September 2014, according to Prime
Minister Tony Abbott. 'There have been two attacks in Australia, and security
and law enforcement agencies have disrupted a further six attacks. Twenty three
people have been charged as a result of eight counter-terrorism operations,'
said Abbott (Business Insider Australia). The prime minister also announced
plans to introduce a new five-tier clearer terror alert system later in 2015,
noting that the state and territory government leaders have agreed on the
national counter-terrorism strategy.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 24, 2015 Friday 8:50 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack hero dad invited back to Sousse to get married

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 444 words


A HERO dad who acted as a human shield to save his fiancee's life in the Tunisia
beach terror massacre has been invited to return to the resort to get married.

WALES NEWS

HERO: Tunisis terror victim Matthew James risked his life to save his partner
Saera Wilson

Mathew James took a bullet for Saera Wilson as terrorist gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui opened fire on a tourist packed beach in Sousse.

He almost died trying to protect his fiancee - and now locals have asked if the
couple if they want to return to the scene of the atrocity to tie the knot.

Gas engineer Mathew was shot in the chest, shoulder and hip as he stood in front
of Saera, 26, to protect her from maniac Rezgui's hail of bullets.

The 30-year-old is now back home in Pontypridd, south Wales, recovering from
last month's attack which killed 38 people - mostly Brits.

WALES NEWS

RECOVERY: Mathew James and Saera Wilson are back home recovering from the
Tunisia attack

He revealed people in Sousse have asked the couple if they would like to return
to the holiday resort to say their vows.

"They want us to go back and get married over there. They said they would pay
for us to have our wedding in the same hotel.

"I said 'No'. Can you imagine that? They'd advertise it as the hero coming back.

"Even if they had armed guards the whole way around the hotel I still wouldn't
be able to do it," he said.

Mathew's bravery in the midst of the terror atrocity on June 26 hit headlines
and even gained a mention by Prime Minister David Cameron.

As well as getting shot, Mathew suffered a heart attack as he was rushed to
hospital.

GETTY

ATROCITY: Terrorist gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed 38 tourists in Sousse,
Tunisia

The couple said they never really felt safe until they had touched back down in
the UK.

"As soon as they said we were flying over British soil that was when I thought
'Oh my God, we're home'," Saera said.

A total of 38 tourists were killed when ISIS gunman Rezgui opened fire with a
Kalashnikov assault rifle at the five-star Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The terrorist killed 30 Brits and three Irish as well as visitors from Germany,
Belgium, Russia and Portugal.

Related articles Tunisia terror: Dad who used body as human shield to save
fiancé up for bravery award EXCLUSIVE: 'I'm not scared of ISIS' Brit Muslim
speaks out about anti-terror video Tears at funerals of Tunisia victims: ISIS
scum will never wipe out our love

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Boy, 15, admits inciting Australia terror attack

BYLINE: Catriona Stewart

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 373 words


A 15-YEAR-OLD British boy has admitted encouraging an Islamic State-inspired
terror attack targeting police officers at an Anzac Day parade in Australia.

Over 10 days, the youngster from Lancashire sent thousands of instant messages
to 18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic terror
group, the Old Bailey heard.

Police examined his mobile phone and uncovered the ­exchanges after he was
arrested on April 2 in the Blackburn  area.

In one message on March 18, the boy, who was 14 at the time, said: "Suggest you
break into someone's house and get your first taste of beheading."

Besim replied that it seemed "a little risky".

The smartly-dressed, bespectacled British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting
terrorism, via videolink from Manchester Crown Court.

The charge states that between March 15 and March 26,  he ­"incited a person to
commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder of
police officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in
Australia".

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

Prosecutor Paul Greaney QC said: "The defendant has now pleaded guilty to what
was count one on the indictment.

"This charge represents his conduct over 10 days in March 2015 in inciting an
Australia-based man named Sevdet Besim to commit an act of terrorism abroad,
namely the murder of police officers ­during an attack upon a parade to
commemorate Anzac Day in Melbourne.

"The evidence of this plot ­derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the ­defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant's mobile
telephone."

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports to find out if there was any
"indoctrination" as he adjourned the case for sentencing at Manchester Crown
Court on September 3.

He said: "I want some assessment of how and why it occurred and what measures
could be taken in order to reverse that process. Dealing with someone of this
age is an extremely difficult sentencing process and I will need all the help I
can get."

The boy, who wore a grey shirt and tie, is being held in an unidentified youth
detention centre in the North West of England.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 24, 2015 Friday 4:40 PM GMT

Is ISIS moving into Europe? Turkish border attack raises fears over spread of
terror

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 792 words


FEARS Islamic State militants are gaining more control have been heightened
after a Turkish soldier was killed and two others wounded in a firefight from
across the Syrian border.

EPA

Relatives in Suruc are mourning those killed in a suicide bombing - and the US
will start airstrikes

Turkish forces returned fire on the terrorists in Syria with tank shells today
in retaliation, just two days after a suspected suicide bombing by the Islamist
radical group in a Turkish border town killed 32 people, many of them students
and some Kurds.

Turkey's NATO allies have long expressed concern about control of the 900km
border with Syria, which ISIS controls, with many world leaders believing Turkey
has long-ignored ISIS militants using Turkish territory to cross into Syria.

Today's violence and Monday's suicide bombing in the southeastern town of Suruc
emphasised fears the Syrian conflict will spill into Europe through Turkey.

Earlier today it emerged a prominent Turkish journalist was fired from his
newspaper over a tweet which suggested President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was
responsible for Monday's suicide bombing.

Kadri Gursel had tweeted it was "shameful" that world leaders were offering
condolences to the "number one cause of IS terrorism".

Speaking about today's firefight, a Turkish official said: "Turkish soldiers
returned fire after shots came from the Syrian side of the border, from the
region where Islamic State militants are."

He added that, in line with rules of engagement, four tanks returned fire after
militants fired on them.

Related articles  Islamic State threat: Isis plotting to use drones to bomb
crowds...  Britons flock to 'safe haven' Spain unaware country is on red...

The army said one sergeant had been killed and two others wounded. One ISIS
militant had been killed, and Turkish forces had later retrieved his body and
rifle.

Another Turkish official said fighter jets had been scrambled to the Syrian
border, although Turkish jets regularly patrol the frontier with Syria.

Rami Abdulrahman, founder of the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
which tracks the conflict in Syria through a network of sources on the ground,
gave a different account.

He said the clashes erupted when two Syrian civilians tried to cross into Turkey
and the army opened fire, killing one of them, an elderly man.

ISIS then returned fire and two of their militants were killed, he said.

The Turkish army was not immediately available to comment.

Getty

Relatives have been mourning loved ones killed in Monday's suicide attack

Local media said the fighting was close to the village of Elbeyli, east of
Kilis, and an area where the armed forces have sent reinforcements in recent
weeks.

The skirmish came a day after US President Barack Obama and President Erdogan
agreed to work together to stem the flow of foreign fighters and secure the
border.

This evening White House officials confirmed Ankara has agreed to allow the US
military to launch air strikes against Islamic State for the first time from its
Incirlik base near Adana in the south of Turkey.

Turkey has repeatedly said it does not want to mount a unilateral incursion into
Syria, but will do what is necessary to protect its border. Around half of the
armoured vehicles that patrol Turkey's borders are now along the Syrian
frontier.

The clashes were the latest in a wave of violence, with Monday's Suruc bombing
enraging Turkey's Kurdish minority, many of whom suspect the government of
tacitly backing ISIS in Syria against Kurdish forces, something Ankara strongly
denies.

EPA

A government security meeting in Ankara

On Wednesday two police officers were killed in a town on the Syrian border and
militants from the Kurdistan Workers Party claimed responsibility.

Turkey has been negotiating an end to the PKK's 30-year-old campaign for
autonomy for Turkey's estimated 14million Kurds and is worried about its growing
influence in war-torn Syria as it fears emergence of an independent Kurdish
state embracing parts of Iraq, Syria and Turkey.

Violence has also spread beyond the Kurdish southeast.

In Istanbul, the PKK's youth wing claimed responsibility for the murder of a
shopkeeper who the militants said belonged to ISIS, the Hurriyet newspaper said.

The Turkish military reported a series of other attacks by the PKK on Wednesday,
though no casualties were reported.

In the eastern province of Tunceli rebels opened fire on a military base,
triggering a brief clash. In Van, near the Iranian border, militants set fire to
trucks and opened fire on troops, the military said in a statement.

Related articles Kobani: ISIS defeated and 60 jihadists killed by Kurdish
fighters protecting Syrian town Fury as the US blocks plans to fight ISIS in
Syria and Iraq  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 24, 2015 Friday 10:18 AM GMT

British hero wounded in Tunisia terror attack is invited back to Sousse...to get
MARRIED

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 666 words


A HERO who saved his bride-to-be by throwing himself in front of a bullet during
the Tunisia beach terror attack says the couple have been asked to get MARRIED
at the scene of the atrocity.

FACEBOOK

The couple were asked to return to Tunisia to get married

Matthew James, whose tale of love and self-sacrifice inspired the nation,
revealed that locals in the beach resort of Sousse want him to marry his fiancee
on the same beach where a berserk Islamic State gunman murdered 30 Britons.

The 30-year-old used himself as a human shield to protect Saera Wilson from
cocaine-fuelled student Seifeddine Rezgui, who rampaged amongst the deck chairs
with a Kalashnikov rifle firing indiscriminately.

He was shot three times by the Islamist gunman as he protected his love, and is
now back home in south Wales recovering from his wounds.

However, the heroic fiancee was stunned when he was contacted by locals in the
Tunisian resort asking him to come back and get married there.

Some even offered to cover the cost of the ceremony, so that the couple could
stay in the same hotel where the bloody atrocity unfolded.

The traumatised couple have politely declined their offer.

FACEBOOK

Mr James was badly wounded when he leaped in front of a bullet to save his
fiancee

Mr James said: "They want us to go back and get married over there. They said
they would pay for us to have our wedding in the same hotel.

"I said 'No!' Can you imagine that? They'd advertise it as the hero coming back
and even if they had armed guards the whole way around the hotel I still
wouldn't be able to do it."

The humble gas engineer was shot in the leg, stomach, arm and chest during the
horrendous massacre and even suffered a heart attack while being rushed to
hospital.

He spent more than two weeks in hospital but has made a remarkable recovery
after surgeons had to remove two bullets from his body.

The couple said they did not feel safe in Tunisia even after Rezgui had been
killed by police, and they only really relaxed once they had returned to
Britain.

Accompanied by air medics, the couple were flown back to Cardiff by private jet
- paid for by their bank's holiday insurance scheme - within 36 hours of the
shooting.

Miss Wilson told The Mirror: "When we got up in the air in the jet I kept asking
where we were. As soon as they said we were flying over British soil that was
when I thought 'Oh my God, we're home'.

"When we landed and got off Mathew's mum and sister and my dad were there.

"They opened the door and I ran across the runway and threw myself on my dad."

EPA

Student Seifeddine Rezgui gunned down 30 Britons on a beach in Tunisia

REUTERS

The Tunisia terror attack left 38 dead, including 30 Britons

But despite his physical wounds healing, the couple both suffer from flashbacks
to the horrifying ordeal.

Mr James said: "It is a bit strange going out into busy places. It feels weird
at the moment - I feel a bit on edge."

"I don't sleep very well and I've had nightmares"

However the ex-rugby player, who still uses a crutch when walking longer
distances, admitted he feels extremely fortunate to be alive.

He said: "It was literally split-seconds and millimetres - not even millimetres
- which saved my life.

"If he had walked an inch further down the beach, I'm dead. If he had turned his
barrel another millimetre over, I'm dead.

"If I had reacted a split-second slower, I'm dead, or Saera's dead. It was
millimetres away from hitting my internal organs and if it had hit anything in
there I would have died.

"I was lucky. I am the luckiest man in the world."

Related articles How safe is your holiday destination? Map of tourist hotspots
with terror threat levels Tunisia attack: Hundreds pay tribute to 'best parents
in the world' and a 'family rock' Tunisia terror attack: Hundreds line streets
for funeral of ex-Birmingham City footballer ISIS make chilling call to
supporters to attack Britain after Tunisia massacre Britons flock to 'safe
haven' Spain unaware country is on red alert over Isis terror plots

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 24, 2015 Friday 12:38 PM GMT

Kenya kicks off biggest ever security operation for Barack Obama welcome;
Nairobi all too aware of recent terrorist attacks as US security personnel
arrive in hundreds and airspace to close for president's arrival

BYLINE: David Smith in Nairobi

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1196 words


The biggest security operation in Kenya's history is under way as the vulnerable
east African nation prepares to welcome its "son", Barack Obama, for the first
time since he reached the White House.

The US president was due to touch down on Air Force One on Friday evening for a
weekend programme in the capital, Nairobi, that includes an international
business summit, dinner with his Kenyan counterpart, Uhuru Kenyatta, and a major
public address.

Kenya is treating the visit as a chance to shine, akin to an Olympics or a
football World Cup, and is all too aware how catastrophic another terrorist
attack would be for its image. Three months ago Islamist militants murdered 148
people at a university in Garissa, while an attack on Nairobi's Westgate
shopping mall left at least 67 people dead less than two years ago.

Hundreds of US security personnel have arrived in Kenya in recent weeks and
three hotels have been examined by the secret service, according to local media.

Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft, usually stationed at the US military base in
Djibouti, flew over Nairobi this week alongside a White Hawk helicopter with
presidential insignia, Agence France-Presse reported. Other military helicopters
have been flown in reportedly from a US special forces facility at Kenya's Manda
Bay base, from which raids on al-Shabaab militants in Somalia are launched.

"Nairobi is seen as the second most important US embassy in the world after
Moscow because of both Somalia and its proximity to the Middle East," an
American source said. "There are so many missions going on that we don't even
hear about."

Related: Obama faces political minefield during Kenyan 'homecoming'

Kenya's civil aviation authority announced that national airspace would be
closed for 50 minutes on arrival and 40 minutes on departure, inadvertently
revealing the schedule of the president, who will travel without his family.

Obama will then be chauffeured in his bomb-proof limousine, dubbed "the Beast".
The $1.5m (£970,000) car has 20cm-thick steel plates, 13cm-thick bulletproof
glass, kevlar-reinforced tyres and a presidential blood bank in the boot.

Around 10,000 police officers - roughly a quarter of the national force - were
being deployed in the capital and several major roads would be closed to all but
emergency and security vehicles. The move prompted many people to stay at home
and numerous banks and schools to shut early on Friday.

Evans Kidero, the governor of Nairobi county, said: "Security is both visible
and invisible. It's something we've been working on even before Obama is
coming."

Kidero's belated attempt to beautify the city by planting grass has been mocked
on social media, with Twitter users adopting the hashtag #KideroGrass. "In
African culture when you're receiving an important visitor, when your in-laws
are coming, the house must be spruced," he explained. "Actually we plant grass
every year but our people are so indisciplined they walk on them, they kill
them. I'm just appealing that they should keep off my grass."

But security concerns are thought to have played a part in the decision for
Obama not to travel to his father's grave and meet family members in the village
of Kogelo. One relative, Said Obama, said: "I would have wished that he visit
here but to me the most important fact is he's coming to Kenya. He's wearing
several hats: he's a family member and he's the president of the United States.
I know if he doesn't come to Kogelo, his spirit will be there with us."

The 49-year-old half-brother of the president's father, said Barack Obama senior
and junior shared a similar intelligence and deep baritone voice. "I'm feeling
proud of Barack," he said. "He has never failed us. He has put our name on the
map."

Obama himself talked recently about the heavy security restrictions compared
with previous trips to his ancestral home, most recently as a senator in 2006.
"I will be honest with you, visiting Kenya as a private citizen is probably more
meaningful to me than visiting as president, because I can actually get outside
of the hotel room or a conference centre," he said.

The 53-year-old president, who once shot down conspiracy theories that he had
actually been born in Kenya by publicly producing his birth certificate from
Hawaii, is expected to spend time with family members who will travel to
Nairobi, according to White House officials.

Securing the tour is unchartered territory since no sitting US president has
previously visited Kenya or Ethiopia, to which Obama flies on Sunday. Both
countries are seen as vital allies in the African theatre of the "war on
terror".

At a press conference at Nairobi's state house, where the Kenyan and US flags
currently fly alongside bunting, Kenyatta highlighted the threat. "Our country
has endured the attacks of depraved, ideological criminals," he said. "We have
fought them unrelentingly, and they know, as well as we do, that they will
lose."

Related: #SomeonetellCNN that Kenya is gripped by Obama-mania

Kenyatta said there was "very close cooperation" with the US and "the fight
against terror will be central" to his scheduled meeting with Obama, who is
expected to visit the site of al-Qaida's 1998 bombing of the US embassy.

But Joseph Nkaissery, the Kenyan interior minister, called on the US-based news
channel CNN to apologise for describing east Africa as a "hotbed of terror"
during its coverage of the visit. The hashtag #SomeoneTellCNN was trending
worldwide as Kenyans condemned the broadcaster.

People have expressed frustration at the zealous security measures but also
excitement at the imminent arrival of the world's most powerful man. Thursday's
Daily Nation newspaper carried the front-page headline, "Son of Kenyan student
who changed the world", and contained a 32-page supplement entitled "Karibu
[Welcome] Obama". Street vendors were hawking American flags, glasses that
paired the US flag with Kenya's and other merchandise.

In a BBC interview on Thursday, Obama justified his visit to Kenya and Ethiopia
despite human rights concerns, citing Burma as an example of engagement
producing results. Asked about the opposition to gay rights of Kenya's deputy
president, William Ruto, Obama said: "Yeah, well, I disagree with him on that,
don't I?

"Everybody deserves equal treatment in the eyes of the law and the state. And
that includes gays, lesbians, transgender persons."

Obama said he had been blunt with African leaders about gay rights in the past
and planned to make it part of his agenda. Kenyatta has described it as a
"non-issue" in this weekend's talks.

Kerry Kennedy, president ofthe Robert F Kennedy Human Rights, said: "It is
imperative for President Obama to show solidarity with the brave human rights
activists, those who have literally put their lives on the line for the benefit
of their countries, during his upcoming visit.

"At a time when the human rights situations in both Kenya and Ethiopia are
worsening, the United States government must demonstrate that it stands on the
side of the good and the just, signalling that respect for basic human dignity
remains at the core of its foreign policy with all nations."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 24, 2015
                                 First Edition

Blackburn Boy aged 15 pleads guilty to encouraging attack;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Emily Pennink

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 209 words


A 15-year-old British boy has admitted to encouraging an Islamic Stateinspired
terror attack on police at an Anzac Day parade in Australia.

Over a 10-day period, the youngster from Lancashire sent thousands of messages
to 18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic terror
group, the Old Bailey heard.

Police examined his mobile phone and uncovered the exchanges after he was
arrested on April 2 in the Blackburn area.

In one message the boy, who was 14 at the time, said: "Suggest you break into
someone's house and get your first taste of beheading."

Besim replied that it seemed "a little risky".

The smartly dressed, bespectacled British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting
terrorism, via videolink from Manchester Crown Court.

The charge states that between 15 March and 26 March 2015 he "incited a person
to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder
of police officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in
Australia."

A second charge of inciting terrorism overseas in relation to beheading a person
in Australia was dropped by the prosecution.

Outlining the case, prosecutor Paul Greaney QC, said: "The defendant has now
pleaded guilty to what was count one on the indictment."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

British teen admits inciting terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 224 words


Over a 10-day period, the youngster from Lancashire sent thousands of instant
messages to 18-year-old Sevdet Besim, who shared his admiration for the Islamic
terror group, the Old Bailey heard. Police examined his mobile phone and
uncovered the exchanges after he was arrested on April 2.

In one message on March 18, the boy, who was 14 at the time, said:  Suggest you
break into someone s house and get your first taste of beheading.  Besim replied
that it seemed  a little risky .

The British youngster pleaded guilty to inciting terrorism. The charge states
that between March 15 and March 26, 2015 he  incited a person to commit an act
of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK, namely the murder of police
officers during an attack on a parade to commemorate Anzac Day in Australia .

Prosecutor Paul Greaney QC said:

The evidence of this plot derives from literally thousands of instant messages
between the defendant and Sevdet Besim recovered from the defendant s mobile
telephone.

Those messages reveal the intentions of the plotters and their targets, along
with their motivation which may be summarised as support for Isis and their
enthusiasm for the attack.

Mr Justice Saunders ordered pre-sentence reports to find out if there was any
indoctrination  as he adjourned the case for sentencing at Manchester Crown
Court on September 3.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERROR KID ON RADAR;
He ordered attack

BYLINE: TOM MORGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 75 words


A BRITISH boy aged 14 ordered the beheading of an Australian cop despite being
on MI5's radar for two years.

The lad, now 15, messaged fanatic Sevdet Besim, 18, right, telling him to "get
your first taste of beheading" before April's Anzac Day parade in Melbourne.

Yesterday, the boy admitted a terrorism charge at the Old Bailey and was
remanded until September. Authorities had taken him out of school in 2013 and
sent him on a "de-radicalisation" course.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday

Obama visits scene of 1998 terrorist attack on US embassy in Kenya

LENGTH: 638 words


Text of report by Alphonce Shiundu entitled "Obama lays wreath at Memorial Park,
four years after killing Al-Qa'idah's Usamah" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 25 July

US President Barack Obama Saturday [25 July] afternoon visited the 7 August
Memorial Park in Nairobi's Central Business District where he laid a wreath.

The park is a symbol of devastation that Usamah bin-Ladin left in the country 17
years ago when he bombed the US embassy in Nairobi, killing 218 people and
injuring at least 5,000 others.

For Obama, who last visited the memorial park in 2006 with his wife Michelle and
their two daughters, Saturday's visit will be akin to telling those who died
that he fulfilled his promise to promote peace across the world with the killing
of Usamah four years ago.

Following Obama's orders, Usamah was killed in Abbotabad, Pakistan on 1 May,
2011 by US Navy Seals.

The trip to the Nairobi site took Obama to the noisy junction where Moi Avenue
meets Haile Sellassie Avenue, just opposite the bus terminus aptly named
'Railways' - after the nearby headquarters of Kenya Railways - where a tranquil
garden stands.

The park, which is slightly larger than a football field, is filled with trees,
lush green grass, a fountain, paved footpaths and a marble plaque engraved with
names of the dead.

The people whose names are on the plaque died 17 years ago when Al-Qa'idah
terrorists bombed the embassy of the United States in Nairobi and Tanzania.

In one corner, next to the Cooperative Bank building, there's a gallery and an
office. On display are stories of survivors, sympathy notes, and pledges for
peace and non-violence in the world. There are pictures of the prominent people
who have visited the memorial.

All the US ambassadors to Kenya, from Prudence Bushnell, the one who survived
the attack because she was meeting the then Education Minister Joseph Kamotho to
the current ambassador Robert Godec, who will hold the record for bringing Obama
back home, have been to the memorial to commiserate with the survivors and pay
their respects to the victims.

For 17 years, the victims have nursed their pain, in the hope that one day the
US government will come back and compensate them for turning their lives and
that of their families upside down.

Many others have died, few have held onto life, hoping, praying and believing
that their cries and prayers will be heard. They have seen the US Vice-President
Joe Biden come and go. No compensation.

It was the same in May when Secretary of State John Kerry came and left, and
even when Kerry's predecessor Hillary Clinton visited Nairobi.

The Standard took a peek at the visitors' book at the memorial to see what Obama
said nine years ago when he and Michelle visited the park.

Though the handwriting is a little hard to read, the signature with which he
makes decisions that run the world's largest democracy is unmistakable.

"We continue to remember the lives lost, American and Kenyan, and pledge to work
together to bring people together around peace and understanding," he wrote in
the visitors' book on 25 August, 2006.

Obama wrote on the same page that his wife Michelle had written on. They are the
only ones who wrote on that page. Michelle, wrote, "Michelle Obama. Wife of
Barack Obama. May God bless us all and may we never forget!"

As US President, a visit to the memorial will be of huge significance and the
victims hope he will listen to their hackneyed cry for compensation.

Late Friday, hours before the US President Barack Obama arrived in Nairobi, the
tranquility of the garden, was shattered when some of the victims, and a few
activists on terrorism turned up to remind the world that people died when the
bomb exploded in that compound where the US embassy stood.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 25 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 25, 2015 Saturday 8:30 AM GMT

Never-before-seen photos from inside White House on 9/11 show Bush and Cheney as
terror attack unfolded;
The images, released by the US National Archives, capture the immediate
aftermath as the Twin Towers and the Pentagon were attacked by terrorists

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 268 words


Dick Cheney sits with his feet up on a desk staring at a television news report
as smoke pours from the stricken Twin Towers.

This never-before-seen photograph is one of a collection released showing the
immediate aftermath inside the White House as the September 11 terror attacks
unfolded.

In another, the then-Vice President is seen with his head in his hands as he
makes a phone call from the secure basement.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell and National Security Advisor Condoleezza
Rice are also pictured in the President's Emergency Operations Center in
Washington.

The highly-secure underground bunker below the White House's East Wing can
withstand even a nuclear attack.

The images, released by the US National Archives in response to a Freedom of
Information request, capture the reaction of Goverment officials after 9/11
terror attacks.

Cheney watches a news report after two passenger planes had crashed into the
World Trade Center in New York. Both towers later collapsed.

A third plane struck the Pentagon and a fourth crashed in Pennsylvania. In
total, 2,996 people killed.

President George W Bush was visiting a school in Sarasota, Florida, when the
attacks took place.

Images from later on September 11 show a tense-looking Bush speaking with his
colleagues after his return to the White House.

The images were captured by Cheny's staff photographer, PBS reported.

The photos were released by the National Archives following a FOIA request by
FRONTLINE filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna.

Unseen pix of Emergency Operations Center in Washington in the hours following
the September 11, 2001 Terror attacks

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

sas foil plot to murder brit tourists;
Special forces help Turks arrest 250 IS suspects planning terror attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


by CHRIS HUGHES BRITAIN'S elite forces have helped thwart a plan to launch mass
suicide bomb attacks against Westerners in Turkey.

The country's counterterror police seized 250 suspects in dawn raids, aided by
the SAS.

A military source said the authorities "did not want a repeat of Tunisia".

FULL STORY: PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday

Husband still feels guilty about his actions after terror attack

BYLINE: PR Page Manager 15

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 404 words


A Norfolk man who was injured in the Tunisia beach shooting has spoken of his
"guilt" about not being able to reach his wounded wife.

It has been almost one month since Tony Callaghan and his wife Christine, from
North Walsham, were caught up in the terrorist attack that left 30 British
tourists dead.



The couple had sought refuge inside the Imperial Marhaba Hotel in Sousse when
gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

But while Mr Callaghan had managed to barricade himself inside a room along with
several other tourists, his injured wife lay outside screaming for help.

Speaking to ITV Anglia yesterday, he said: "We were running for our lives and it
was really a click of a finger whether you lived or you died.

"My wife was literally four feet away from me on the other side of the door
screaming for help after she'd been shot and I couldn't get to her.

"I feel so guilty that I was in that room and Chris hadn't made it in -  she was
right behind me and I honestly thought she was in there with me as I dived into
that room for cover.

"That's something I've got to live with."

Mr Callaghan, who had been shot in the leg, said he could not risk the lives of
the other tourists by opening the door.

He did not know if gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who killed a total of 38 people,
was waiting outside.

His 62-year-old wife had been saved by her sunglasses case, which deflected a
bullet from her stomach and into her right leg.

And although it resulted in a shattered femur, she survived.

She said that her husband had been there for her 24 hours a day to support her
following the attack.

Despite it being almost a month since the massacre, the pair said they were
still reliving the horror of event.

Mr Callaghan said: "The first week after it we were in tears. We could not
comprehend what we had been through."

They said that loud bangs and violent film scenes brought back the memories of
what happened on June 26.

The former RAF serviceman added: "We've reacted to some loud bangs going off -
just for that split-second you have to think where you are because it brought
back memories of that gunfire."

Mrs Callaghan will undergo further surgery in September with the hope of
regaining full use of her legs.

"My wife was literally four feet away from me on the other side of the door
screaming for help after she'd been shot and I couldn't get to her. I feel so
guilty that I was in that room and Chris hadn't made it in.

Tony Callaghan

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Evening News (Norwich)

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday

Woman thought Norwich jewellery raid was part of terror attack

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: FRNT

LENGTH: 567 words


Shop workers have told how they feared for their lives and one thought they were
at the centre of a terrorist attack when armed robbers burst into their Norwich
jewellery store.

Mother-of-three Beth Johnson, 38, was working at Stuart Robinson Jewellers, in
Swan Lane, when three men entered the store carrying imitation firearms, a
crowbar and pepper spray during a terrifying raid, which was caught on the
store's CCTV cameras.



The gang made off with valuables worth at least £130,000.

Yesterday, two of the robbers were jailed for more than nine years each when
they appeared before Norwich Crown Court for sentencing.

Mrs Johnson, from Norwich, was seen cowering behind the counter as one of the
three men - who were all wearing tourist-like hats and scarves with "I love
London" and "I love England" on them - pointed a realistic looking imitation gun
in her face.

The shop's owner Stuart Robinson also had an imitation gun pointed at him by one
of the other men and was sprayed with pepper spray as they stole jewellery with
a cost value of at least £130,000. It has not been recovered.

At one point one of the raiders can be seen trampling on Mrs Johnson as he tried
to get to a cabinet.

She was also sprayed in the face by pepper spray - which she thought was acid -
before the three men left the store on foot following the robbery in February
this year.

The shocking footage was shown at Norwich Crown Court yesterday as Tomas
Masnauskas, 25, and Edgaras Blazaitis, 24, were each jailed having both
previously admitted robbery, possession of a prohibited weapon and having an
imitation firearm with intent to cause an indictable offence.

Sentencing the pair each to nine years and four months in prison, Judge Nicholas
Coleman, who indicated they would both be deported, said they had used "the
maximum amount of terror" in the "well executed" raid.

Speaking after the case, Mrs Johnson said: "At the time it happened it was when
all the stuff was going on in France to do with the terrorists. I really didn't
know whether we were going to be the next victims of some terrorist attack."

Although she was "happy" with the sentences, the mother-of-three, who had worked
at the jewellers for 15 years, has not been able to go back to work following
the incident and is suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

A victim personal statement read out on behalf of Mrs Johnson during the hearing
said she was "so scared".

"I immediately went to the floor. I was thinking about my three children. One of
them was only five and I was worried about having not made provisions for her
and what would happen to her if I died."

A statement read on behalf of Mr Robinson said he "feared for his life" and was
"scared" for Mrs Johnson during the raid.

Michael Clare, mitigating for Blazaitis, of no fixed abode but who was raised in
an orphanage in Lithuania and once earned a living from unlicensed fighting,
said he entered his guilty plea at the earliest opportunity and had shown
"genuine remorse".

Kevin Batch, mitigating for Masnasukas, also of no fixed abode, said his client
was "personally distressed" when he saw the footage and "genuinely ashamed" of
his behaviour.

A third man, Alanas Andriusis, 18, of no fixed abode, also appeared in the dock
yesterday having previously admitted his part in the robbery, but will be
sentenced next week.

Have you got a crime story? Email peter.walsh@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 25, 2015 Saturday 6:53 PM GMT

Inside the White House on 9/11: unseen photos of Bush and Cheney in bunker;
Previously unreleased images obtained by documentarian show president,
vice-president, and their spouses and staff as they react to the terror attacks

BYLINE: Jessica Glenza in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 276 words


A never-before-released set of photos shows the anxiety of the Bush
administration as it reacted to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.

Related: Inside the White House on 9/11 - in pictures

The documentarian Colette Neirouz Hanna, whose work with PBS has focused on the
Bush administration, received the photos in response to a freedom of information
request.

The set of photos show President George W Bush, Vice-President Dick Cheney,
first lady Laura Bush, Cheney's wife, Lynne Cheney, high-level staffers and
department directors reacting as the seriousness of the attacks becomes
apparent.

Two hijacked airliners were flown into the World Trade Center in Manhattan. One
plane was flown into the Pentagon in Washington DC. One plane crashed into a
field in Pennsylvania, after passengers fought back against the hijackers.

Nearly 3,000 people died, in the most costly attack on US soil in history.

The newly released photos were taken by the vice-president's staff photographer.
They show leaders in a secure bunker deep beneath the White House and at the
president's retreat at Camp David. Leaders were also shuttled between a set of
"undisclosed locations", the public broadcasting company said, in response to
the security threat.

The photos are the second set of candid shots obtained by Hanna, whose films
include Bush's War, Cheney's Law and The Dark Side.

Another request by the documentarian revealed scenes including the president and
vice-president sharing a laugh in the Oval Office and the two men touring Sydney
Harbor with Australian leaders.

The full set of 9/11 photos was made available on Flickr.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      July 25, 2015 Saturday 12:05 AM GMT

Turkey carries out first ever strikes against Isis in Syria;
Bombing of Isis positions is tactical shift after deadly terrorist attacks and
comes as Turkey allows US-led coalition to use its southern airbases

BYLINE: Constanze Letsch in Istanbul, Kareem Shaheen in Beirut and Spencer
Ackerman in Washington

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1225 words


Turkish fighter jets have struck Islamic State targets in Syria and the
government has rounded up hundreds of suspected militants in a coordinated
crackdown, as the country deployed military force for the first time against the
terrorist group.

Related: US deal with Turkey over Isis may go beyond simple use of an airbase

The bombing is a major tactical shift for Turkey, which has long been reluctant
to follow the US-led coalition in taking military action against Isis.

The office of the acting prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, said Turkish F-16
warplanes based in Diyarbakir had attacked three Isis targets with guided bombs
at dawn on Friday, including what it described as the group's headquarters and
an assembly point. Nine Isis fighters were killed and 12 injured in the attacks,
according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

Late on Friday, local broadcaster NTV reported that Turkish fighter jets had
re-entered Syrian airspace to launch a further attack on Isis targets as night
fell.

A Turkish official could not confirm the report of the evening attack, although
another broadcaster, CNN Turk, also reported that jets had again entered Syrian
airspace.

Turkey is also to allow the US-led coalition to use its Incirlik airbase and
other bases in the south of the country to conduct strikes against Isis, the
foreign ministry said on Friday. The announcement marks a reversal of policy
that follows a cross-border attack by the militants that killed a Turkish
soldier, and a suicide bombing this week that killed 32 people in the southern
province of Suruç, just a few miles from the Syrian border.

It remains unclear when the Incirlik airbase will be opened to the US, but the
Turkish media said that it would be "very soon", with some predicting the first
allied warplanes would take off in August. Additional airbases in the nearby
cities of Diyarbakir and Batman will be opened to allied planes for emergencies.

The US military flatly denied reports in the Turkish media that the deal with
the US included the establishment of a no-fly zone in northern Syria, a
longstanding demand of the Turkish government which the US had resisted.

There is "no change in that position", Colonel Patrick Ryder, a spokesman for
the US forces in the Middle East, told reporters at the Pentagon on Friday.

Ryder's comment tempered speculation that the airbase agreement signals a shift
in US policy towards attacking the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad, as many
Republican hawks and Syrian rebels desire.

The air strikes and raids come as a wave of deadly violence threatens to draw
Turkey further into the Syrian quagmire.

Tension has also risen to dangerous levels in the predominantly Kurdish
south-east, where many have long accused the Turkish government, led by the
president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of directly supporting Isis against the Kurdish
struggle in Syria, a charge Ankara vehemently denies.

Related: Turkey to let anti-Isis coalition use air base after soldier's death

Davutoglu said on Friday that the detention of almost 300 people linked to Isis
and the Kurdistan Workers' party (PKK) in raids across the country was just the
beginning of a wider operation.

He told reporters: "In yesterday's security meetings, we brought together the
relevant security units and we decided on precautions to take. The operations
that began today are not singular, they are part of a process."

A statement said the raids were conducted "without distinction" against all
terrorist groups in 13 provinces.

It read: "The state of the Turkish republic is adamant on fighting all terrorism
without distinction as it has always done, be it the terrorist organisation of
Daesh [Isis], the terrorist organisation of the PKK or any other international
terrorist organisation."

Late on Friday night there were unconfirmed reports that Turkish warplanes had
launched attacks on PKK camps in northern Iraq.

In Istanbul, several Isis members were detained, many of whom are reported to be
foreigners. According to the Turkish daily Milliyet, ammunition, weapons and
molotov cocktails were seized in several cities during the operation. The prime
minister's office said 37 of those taken into custody were foreigners.

Friday morning's air attacks followed the decision to open the Incirlik base for
Turkey's western allies. Turkey, a Nato member, had long resisted calls from
Barack Obama's administration to allow the coalition to use airbases in the
country as staging grounds for air raids.

Erdogan confirmed the agreement, which he said allowed for operations "within a
certain framework", but did not elaborate on its details. The Turkish media,
however, reported that the establishment of a buffer zone inside Syria had been
agreed.

The daily newspaper Hürriyet, citing senior Turkish sources, said the deal
included a partial no-fly zone covering a 90km (56-mile) strip between the
Syrian towns of Marea and Jarabulus to the east that would be approximately 50km
deep. If established, Syrian warplanes would be prohibited from entering the
no-fly zone and shot down if they did.

But Obama's envoy for the fight against Isis, the retired general John Allen,
who is said to have been critical in securing access to Incirlik, denied any
no-fly zone would be created. He told reporters at the Aspen Security Forum: "It
was not part of the discussion."

Davutoglu, when asked if the agreement with the US to use Incirlik base included
the long-time Turkish demand of creating a safe haven in northern Syria, said it
took into account Turkey's considerations. The remarks fell short of an official
confirmation, but suggest that Ankara and Washington may have worked a
compromise deal that allows for a limited no-fly zone near the border.

The Turkish government has long been pushing for a no-fly zone running alongside
its border inside Syria, but has until now not been successful at convincing its
western allies, headed by the US, to establish a secure strip inside the
neighbouring country.

Some critics had accused the Turkish government of wanting to establish a buffer
zone in northern Syria to weaken the growing Kurdish autonomy in the region.

The sources cited by the newspaper said the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union
party (PYD) and the Kurdish militias of the People's Protection Units (YPG)
would not be targeted unless "they threatened Turkish borders" or tried to
"change the demographic" in Syria.

The leftist and pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic party (HDP) criticised the
proposed buffer zone as an attempt by Ankara to weaken the Kurdish opposition in
Syria, warning that such a move would endanger the continuing peace talks
between the Turkish government and the PKK. The HDP also described Friday's
anti-terror raids as an attempt to "whitewash the AKP's failed Syria policies".

It said in a press statement: "Why have the perpetrators [of the bombings in
Suruç and Diyarbakir] not been detained? Why have there not been operations
against Isis sleeper cells in Turkey? How could [the government] be believable
in its fight against Isis when the pro-government media are still using the most
abject hate speech against our party, while they cannot say a thing against
Isis?"

Davutoglu underlined that Damascus had not been informed about Turkey's new
security strategy. He said: "Decisions concerning Turkey are made in Ankara. But
we informed our allies."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday

Tunisian forces stop terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 63 words


SEJNANE: One militant has been killed and 13 others arrested in an operation
that foiled a planned attack in Tunisia. The National Guard acted on
intelligence to target three houses in the Sejnane region of the northern
province of Bizerte, 35 miles from the capital of Tunis, an interior ministry
statement said. It said one of the men opened fire on the guard unit and was
killed.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      July 25, 2015 Saturday 12:00 PM GMT

9/11 White House photos: Never-seen-before pictures show George Bush and Dick
Cheney moments after terror attacks;
The US National Archives have released photographs from inside the White House
in the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Alice Harrold

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 197 words


Newly released images show former President George Bush and his senior staff in
the Emergency Operations Centre in Washington following the attacks on the Twin
Towers and Pentagon in 2001.

The staff, including the former Secretary of State Colin Powell, National
Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice, and vice-President Dick Cheney, are shown in
the secure basement.The Emergency Operations Centre is a bunker under the east
wing of the White House which was built to withstand a nuclear attack.

Vice-President Cheney was in command when the four hijacked passenger planes
crashed in New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, killing 2,996 people.

President Bush was visiting a school in Florida at the time at the time of the
attacks before being flown back to the White House.

Read more:US overreacted to 9/11 says terror expert Louise RichardsonTime lapse
shows 11-year construction of One WTC9/11 firefighter wins $5 million lottery
jackpot

Frontline filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna requested that the photos, taken by
vice-President Cheney's photographer, be released by the National Archives under
the Freedom of Information Act.

To see the full set, visit the National Archives' Flickr page.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 25, 2015 Saturday 10:00 PM GMT

Revealed: Secret plan to put 5,000 heavily-armed troops on streets of Britain to
fight jihadis in event of a terror attack

BYLINE: MARTIN BECKFORD, HOME AFFAIRS EDITOR FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1004 words



     ·    Operation Temperer would see troops guard key targets with armed
          police
     ·    Plans drawn up by police chiefs and discussed by top Government
          officials
     ·    Would be triggered by Cobra committee in event of simultaneous attacks
     ·    Paris attacks convinced authorities military would be needed if UK hit


A top secret plan for the mass deployment of armed troops on the streets of
Britain in the wake of a major terrorist attack can be revealed for the first
time today.

More than 5,000 heavily armed soldiers would be sent to inner cities if Islamic
State or other fanatics launched multiple attacks on British soil - an
unprecedented military response to terrorism.

The plan, codenamed Operation Temperer, would see troops guard key targets
alongside armed police officers, providing 'protective security' against further
attacks while counter-terror experts and MI5 officers hunted down the plotters.

The shocking plans for 'large-scale military support' to the police are
contained in documents uncovered by The Mail on Sunday. They have been drawn up
by police chiefs and are being discussed at the highest levels of Government,
but have never been revealed in public or mentioned in Parliament.

The mass deployment of Army personnel on the streets of mainland Britain would
be hugely controversial, even if it helped keep the population safe, because it
could give the impression that the Government had lost control or that martial
law was being imposed.

Baroness Jones, who sits on London's Police and Crime Committee, said she was
'shocked' at the plans, saying: 'This would be unprecedented on mainland
Britain.' And she expressed concern that the troops would not be sufficiently
trained to protect civil liberties.

Some police leaders fear that the soldiers would be needed if there was a wave
of attacks by extremists inspired by Islamic State or Al-Qaeda, as police forces
no longer have enough manpower to cope.

It can also be disclosed today that, after this year's Paris massacres, senior
police officers discussed raising the terror threat level in Britain from
'severe' to the highest level of 'critical', meaning a terror attack is
'imminent' rather than 'highly likely'.

The military contingency plan is revealed in the minutes of a National Police
Chiefs Council (NPCC) meeting held on April 22 at a hotel in Leicester.
Documents accidentally uploaded to the NPCC website give details of what was
discussed in a closed session.

Under the heading 'COUNTER TERRORISM POST PARIS LARGE SCALE MILITARY SUPPORT TO
THE POLICE', the minutes reveal that deputy chief constable Simon Chesterman,
the 'national lead' for armed policing, briefed the other chief officers.

The paper says up to 5,100 military personnel could be deployed 'based upon
force assessments of how many military officers could augment armed police
officers engaged in protective security duties'.

I'm shocked. This would be unprecedented on mainland Britain  Baroness Jones,
who sits on London's Police and Crime Committee

'Discussions were ongoing with Government', the minutes added, saying: 'Chiefs
recognised that the Army played an important part in national resilience and
supported the work going forward.'

After being spotted by this newspaper, this section was removed from the NPCC
website on Friday.

Sources confirmed the detailed plan had been discussed at the highest level and
would only be triggered by the Cobra committee chaired by the Prime Minister if
there were two or three terror attacks at the same time in Britain, leaving
police struggling to respond.

Will Riches, vice-chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said:
'The bottom line is you can't reduce 17,000 police officers and expect nothing
to change. While police are well-versed at contingency planning, the levels of
cuts to officers means that we cannot police events in the same way.'

Military activity on the streets has previously proved controversial. There was
outcry in 2003 when tanks were stationed at Heathrow following warnings of a
plot to shoot down a passenger jet.

And residents were terrified when surface-to-air missiles were set up on
rooftops and in parks for the 2012 London Olympics. But it is thought that the
series of attacks across Paris by Islamists in January convinced the authorities
that military support would be needed if similar atrocities took place right
across Britain.

Raffaello Pantucci, a security expert at the Royal United Services Institute
think-tank, said: 'It makes sense. The Paris attacks were seen with great
concern because there were so many sites. The concern was would the UK be able
to respond in the same way? There was understandable concern about whether they
would get very stretched.'

A separate note on an meeting of the NPCC on January 16, the week after 17
people were killed in Paris, reveals for the first time: 'Chiefs were asked to
consider raising the threat level to critical' - but in the end the level was
kept at 'severe'.

It is understood that Home Secretary Theresa May would not oppose soldiers
taking to the streets in a 'worst-case scenario'.

But Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper warned: 'Our national security must not
be put at risk. Theresa May has a responsibility to make sure we have enough
police for vital counter-terror work.'

Just last month, days after the Tunisia beach massacre, security forces and
emergency services held a major training exercise called Exercise Strong Tower
which David Cameron said would 'test and refine the UK's preparedness for
dealing with a serious terrorist attack'.

Former Cobra member Col Richard Kemp said plans have been stepped up as more
Britons go to fight with IS in Iraq and Syria. He said: 'They are returning with
a level of capability previously unseen. They are blooded, trained, motivated
and given direction to return home and attack us here.'

The Home Office declined to comment. The MoD says it 'works closely with other
government departments and agencies to ensure that it is able to provide
appropriate assistance in response to any security threats.'

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 25, 2015 Saturday 3:14 AM GMT

Never-before-seen pictures inside the White House on 9/11 show Bush and Cheney
in the immediate aftermath of the Twin Towers terror attack

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


In one photo, then-Vice President Dick Cheney rests his feet on his desk as he
watches a live TV news report of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

In another, he sits beside his wife after they were both frog-marched by Secret
Service agents to a secure basement in the White House.

And in a later shot, he takes his glasses off and clasps his hands together
before he and his spouse are flown to an undisclosed location.

These never-before-seen images capture Cheney's reaction to the attacks, which
saw two hijacked passenger planes crash into the World Trade Center in New York,
another jet strike the Pentagon and a fourth crash in Pennsylvania on September
11, 2001, killing 2,996 people.

They also show the horror felt by other senior government officials, including
then-President George Bush and his wife Laura, National Security Adviser
Condoleezza Rice, CIA Director George Tenet, Cheney's top lawyer, David
Addington, and Chief of Staff Andrew Card.

In the photos, Bush looks tense and even bites his lip as he confers with
officials in the President's Emergency Operations Center (PEOC), a highly-secure
underground bunker below the White House's East Wing that can withstand nuclear
hits and other devastating attacks.

The then-President would shortly address the nation about the day's atrocities,
which were aired live on TV screens across the world.

The same evening, Cheney and his wife, Lynne, were flown via Marine Two to a
secret destination, revealed in the photos to be Camp David.
They were later moved to other undisclosed sites as thousands of rescue workers
descended on the wreckage of the WTC towers.

On the day of the attacks, Cheney, now 74, was in charge at the White House,
with Bush visiting a school in Sarasota, Florida, at the time.

Cheney has since defended the harsh interrogation techniques used by the CIA in
the wake of the plane attacks, which included the waterboarding of 9/11
mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed a total of 183 times, declaring that he 'would
do it again in a minute'.

The newly-released images of Cheney and other officials' reactions to 9/11 were
captured by Cheny's staff photographer, according to  PBS.

The photos were released by the National Archives following a FOIA  request by
FRONTLINE filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 25, 2015 Saturday 6:22 PM GMT

Brit tourists could be caught in Turkey terror attacks after air strikes bombard
ISIS in Syria and Iraq;
It was the second successive day that Turkey had targeted IS and there are fears
the terror group will retaliate on Turkish soil

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 394 words


British holidaymakers could be caught up in terror attacks in Turkey after the
country carried out further air strikes on Islamic State territories in Syria
and Iraq today.

Turkish air force jets attacked positions in Syria and also hit Kurdish
militants in northern Iraq - and the attacks are expected to continue.

It was the second successive day that Turkey had targeted IS and there are fears
IS will retaliate on Turkish soil.

Over 2.5million British nationals visit Turkey every year although the Foreign
Office is advising all but essential travel to certain regions - and not to go
within 10km of the border with Syria.

A spokesman said: "There's been a lot of trouble in Turkey of late.

"There's a high threat from terrorism in Turkey. There are active terrorist
groups throughout the country.

"These include domestic religious extremist and ideological groups, and
international groups involved in the conflict in Syria.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect places visited by foreigners."

Today's air strikes follow a week which saw a bomb attack blamed on IS kill 32
people in the Turkish town of Suruc and border clashes with the militant group.

Video captures moment of devastating bomb blast in Turkish town of Suruc which
killed at least 28 people

The Iraq strikes were the first time Turkey had attacked the Kurdistan Workers'
Party since a 2013 truce.

The group, also known as the PKK, has been fighting Turkey for an autonomous
homeland for the Kurds for decades.

In a statement on its website the PKK said: "The truce has no meaning any more
after these intense air strikes by the occupant Turkish army."

Meanwhile pictures posted to social media show Turkish IS supporter Sari Dayi
posing at a beach in the resorts of Amasra Sahil and Bertin on the Black Sea.

The young Jihadi has posted dozens of images of himself in IS stronghold Raqqa
posing with guns, jihadi fighters, Islamic State flags, and even posted images
of severed heads.

Today Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu that he had ordered "a third wave" of raids
against the IS in Syria and a "second wave" of strikes against the PKK in
northern Iraq - which were ongoing.

He said: "Turkey's operations will continue until the terror organisations'
command centres, all locations where they plan attacks against Turkey and all
depots used to store arms to be used against Turkey are destroyed."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday

Military intervention in Syria said likely to result in terror attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 670 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 25 July

[Column by Ihsan Yilmaz: "There is No Need To Invade Syria, It is Already a Part
of us"]

At the beginning of the Syrian crisis, those in the media who received calls for
interviews from the West were asked questions about the possibility of Turkish
intervention in Syria.

Some Western foreign ministers even made statements that encouraged Turkey to
take this course. However, in the face of Russian and Iranian attitudes of
strong backing for the Assad regime, the Western world abandoned this stance and
avoided making such bold statements.

It was also easy to see that the Justice and Development Party (AKP) leaders
were in a state of facing a serious dilemma since the start of the Syrian
crisis. They were worried that the West was trying to drag them into a quagmire;
but they were also thinking about the results of a possible intervention to
create a satellite Islamist government after Assad. It was not hard to infer all
these based on the official statements and the publications of the
pro-government media.

On the other hand, National Intelligence Organization (MIT) has played an active
role in Syria and developed engagements with different Syrian opposition groups.
Turkey has been indirectly involved in the Syrian crisis as evidenced by an
opposition figure in uniform speaking to a Turkish TV channel in live coverage
in front of the Blue Mosque, opposition fighters who gave Hatay as their
addresses and many others. A number of national and international correspondents
reported that Turkish officials escorted Syrian fighters by official cars. A
number of Syrian fighters who were treated in hospitals in Turkey told reporters
that they were being well cared for.

In the meantime, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) grew and gained
strength and the groups Turkey supported has become affiliated with ISIL. A
number of reports were published in the Western media. A New York Times
correspondent in Ankara interviewed Turkish ISIL militants and those who
recruited militants for ISIL in Ankara. It was either that the Turkish
authorities were unable to realize the danger or they were pretty comfortable
with ISIL. In Kobani, they gave the impression that they favoured ISIL against
the Kurds. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu called ISIL militants "outraged
youngsters" rather than terrorists. The governor of Mosul and the
Hizmet-affiliated school members left the city when ISIL approached the city but
those working in our consulate were taken by ISIL because they did not.
Obviously, Ankara told them ISIL would not hurt them even if they were taken
hostages. Thank God, they were surrendered unharmed after a long period of
detention. In the meantime, the media published reports that ISIL terrorists who
committed murders in Nigde escaped prison.

Obviously, there are a number of sleeper cells in Turkey which were tolerated
before because they were identified as opponents of Assad. There are many ISIL
and al-Qaeda supporters, both Kurds and Turks. I do not think that our
intelligence service is aware of the number of terrorists hidden among the 2.5
million Syrians in Turkey. Iran and Russia are also able to mobilize terrorists
within Turkey. The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the Revolutionary People's
Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) and others are ready to offer service for them.
The Turkish intelligence services and police departments have collapsed. Nobody
knows what Ergenekon - the supposed clandestine organization charged with
plotting to topple the Turkish government - is doing. The Western countries will
only share limited information and intelligence for Turkey to use.

This is the whole situation. Intervention in Syria would mean that the Syrian
conflict comes to Turkey. Maybe this would not cause a civil war but we would
see other explosions in different parts of the country. May God grant prudence
to the state authorities.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 25 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 26, 2015 Sunday 5:10 PM GMT

Brits on holiday in Turkey face 'high threat' of IS terror attack

BYLINE: Ian Proctor

LENGTH: 331 words


BRITS on holiday in Turkey face a "high threat" of a IS terrorist attack, the
Government warned.

GETTY/ANADOLU AGENCY

DANGER: The Foreign Office has reiterated its warning about holidaying in Turkey

It is feared visitors to the tourist hotspot spanning Europe and Asia may may
inadvertently caught up as the regional conflict worryingly escalates.

Turkish officials said Islamic State was behind the suicide bomb on Monday that
killed at least 32 people in the town of Suruc.

Then on Thursday a Turkish soldier was killed and two colleagues wounded in a
shootout with ISIS terrorists on the Syrian border.

Yesterday two truck bombs were set off in the Kurdish-controlled Syrian border
town of Tel Abyad.

Turkey is dropping bombs and firing missiles to get revenge for those two
attacks - launching a second wave of air strikes today.

And it is feared if IS retaliates then sunseeking Britons could be hurt.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "There's been a lot of trouble in Turkey of
late.

"There's a high threat from terrorism in Turkey.

"There are active terrorist groups throughout the country.

"These include domestic religious extremist and ideological groups, and
international groups involved in the conflict in Syria.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect places visited by foreigners."

The Government had already warned Brit tourists about the dangers of Turkey in
June last year before the Tunisia massacres.

As many as 2,000 Brits are estimated to have travelled to war-torn Syria and
Iraq to join ISIS forces.

Many of these have travelled to Syria by entering Turkey first before crossing
the border.

Related articles Terror on Turkey's beaches: Foreign office warn Brits about
'high danger' holidays Fears ISIS may spread to Turkey as soldier is killed in
Syria border shootout More terror fears for Turkey as ISIS set off truck bombs
in crucial border town

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 26, 2015 Sunday 10:57 PM GMT

Secret plans to deploy soldiers on UK streets in the aftermath of a terror
attack are 'shocking' and 'provocative', says peer;
Notes leaked accidentally from an NPCC meeting revealed the proposals

BYLINE: Henry Austin

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 523 words


Secret police plans to deploy more than 5,000 armed soldiers on British streets
in the wake of a UK terror attack have been questioned by a prominent peer as a
"provocative" act that could potentially endanger the public.

Accidentally leaked minutes from a meeting of the National Police Chiefs Council
(NPCC), published as David Cameron flew to South-east Asia planning to discuss
Isis with leaders in the region, said "large scale military support" could
"augment armed police officers engaged in protective security duties".

Based upon force assessments of how many military officers would be required,
troops would be brought in to guard key targets and prevent further terror
attacks, according to The Mail On Sunday, which saw the documents.

Codenamed Operation Temperer, the plans were revealed when documents from an 22
April meeting of the National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC) were accidentally
uploaded to their website.

"The minutes of the meeting were uploaded last Thursday afternoon and removed
and revised early on Friday morning when it was identified that details from the
closed session had been included," an NPCC spokesperson said.

Baroness Jenny Jones, who sits on London's Police and Crime Committee, called
the revelations "absolutely shocking". "Putting troops on the streets would be
very controversial," she told The Independent. "I think it would be very
provocative and cause more problems than it would solve." Although plans
certainly had to be made for the event of a terror attack, she was curious about
whether troops were being trained to deal with members of the public, she said,
adding that "it would not be appropriate to use them" if they had not.

Read more: Cameron launches five-year extremism planTackling extremism: What the
UK can learn from DenmarkMuslim leaders give their views on the PM's plansRobert
Fisk: PM's Churchillian posturing over Syria is misguided

If it reached the situation where military help was necessary, the Government
would have to have lost control, Baroness Jones said, adding that "it would make
them look weak and panicky".

"Something that would be this extraordinary," she said. "I think the principle
of this should be debated in Parliament."

Deputy Chief Constable Simon Chesterman, the "national lead" for armed policing,
briefed the other chief officers at the meeting and "discussions were ongoing
with Government" the minutes said, although they have never been debated in
Parliament.

However, Raffaello Pantucci, director of international security studies at the
Royal United Services Institute think-tank, said the plan was "sensible".

"You really have to have contingency planning, to prepare for potentially the
worst," he said. "If you had multiple sites as they had in the Paris attacks, it
is possible you would have overstretch, you would look to other options and the
Army would be the most obvious port of call."

Last month more than 1,000 police and soldiers, including SAS troops, staged a
mass exercise codenamed Strong Tower to test their ability to respond to a gun
attack on London similar to the one that left 30 British tourists dead in
Tunisia on 26 June.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 26, 2015 Sunday 11:38 AM GMT

MAIL ON SUNDAY COMMENT: Public figures face higher threat of terror attack than
ever before thanks to extremists' use of modern technology

BYLINE: MAIL ON SUNDAY COMMENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 538 words


Terrorism grows more ruthless every day, and its perpetrators take full
advantage of the most modern technology. Potential targets need to guard
themselves against a much wider variety of threats than they used to face.

Regrettably, this means more precautions and more secrecy, especially for
prominent public figures. This is onerous for them and disappointing for the
public, who must increasingly view their leaders from behind screens.

But the alternative is worse. And complacency can never really be permitted. A
small lapse can have huge consequences. That is why the public are ceaselessly
advised to report suspicious behaviour and to be vigilant.

It is in that spirit that The Mail on Sunday has uncovered - and now reveals -
the existence of a mobile phone app costing £2.99, by which Prince William's
emergency air ambulance could be tracked on all its journeys across East Anglia
by anyone with basic electronic skills.

Plainly this created an opportunity for terrorists and a risk for the Prince.
The police and the Palace must have examined this danger when the William's new
job was first discussed.

It is amazing that it should have taken this newspaper's intervention to alert
the authorities to the urgency of this problem. We should never forget the IRA's
boast in 1984 after their attempt to assassinate Margaret Thatcher and her
entire Cabinet at Brighton very nearly succeeded.

They said: 'We only have to be lucky once. You have to be lucky always.' Those
who are vigilant and careful tend to be luckier than those who are not.

Police in retreat

The plan to place 5,000 armed troops on the streets of mainland Britain, in the
event of a major terror attack, is a startling departure from our generally
non-military tradition.

While seeing the sense in it, from the point of view of reassurance and general
public safety in a time of distress and possible panic, many will be sad that we
live in an age when such a deployment might be necessary.

While our Armed Forces have seldom been more popular or better respected, it has
been nearly two centuries since troops were used for such purposes on the
British mainland.

This sort of thing has been seen as the job of the police - civilians in
uniform.

And it is perhaps a reflection on the police, and on the new National Crime
Agency, that such a dramatic move is being looked at now. There is a widespread
public feeling that they have lost their way.

The police themselves are often absent, and the NCA - despite its racy publicity
as 'the British FBI' - has failed to impress.

They should take these discussions as a warning that they need to do better,
both at detection and at reassurance.

We'll drink to that

The ever-controversial Speaker, John Bercow, is in trouble for his very
expensive use of chauffeur-driven cars, and also faces criticism for making the
taxpayer fork out for his hospitality with wine and whisky.

If he wishes to reconnect with the normal world, and reduce the tax burden at
the same time, perhaps he could restore his popular credentials by driving
himself to France on a booze cruise, and stocking his cellar while taking
patriotic advantage of the strong pound.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 26, 2015 Sunday 1:57 AM GMT

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Public figures face higher threat of terror attack than ever
before thanks to extremists' use of modern technology

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL COMMENT

SECTION: RIGHTMINDS

LENGTH: 538 words


Terrorism grows more ruthless every day, and its perpetrators take full
advantage of the most modern technology. Potential targets need to guard
themselves against a much wider variety of threats than they used to face.

Regrettably, this means more precautions and more secrecy, especially for
prominent public figures. This is onerous for them and disappointing for the
public, who must increasingly view their leaders from behind screens.

But the alternative is worse. And complacency can never really be permitted. A
small lapse can have huge consequences. That is why the public are ceaselessly
advised to report suspicious behaviour and to be vigilant.

It is in that spirit that The Mail on Sunday has uncovered - and now reveals -
the existence of a mobile phone app costing £2.99, by which Prince William's
emergency air ambulance could be tracked on all its journeys across East Anglia
by anyone with basic electronic skills.

Plainly this created an opportunity for terrorists and a risk for the Prince.
The police and the Palace must have examined this danger when the William's new
job was first discussed.

It is amazing that it should have taken this newspaper's intervention to alert
the authorities to the urgency of this problem. We should never forget the IRA's
boast in 1984 after their attempt to assassinate Margaret Thatcher and her
entire Cabinet at Brighton very nearly succeeded.

They said: 'We only have to be lucky once. You have to be lucky always.' Those
who are vigilant and careful tend to be luckier than those who are not.

Police in retreat

The plan to place 5,000 armed troops on the streets of mainland Britain, in the
event of a major terror attack, is a startling departure from our generally
non-military tradition.

While seeing the sense in it, from the point of view of reassurance and general
public safety in a time of distress and possible panic, many will be sad that we
live in an age when such a deployment might be necessary.

While our Armed Forces have seldom been more popular or better respected, it has
been nearly two centuries since troops were used for such purposes on the
British mainland.

This sort of thing has been seen as the job of the police - civilians in
uniform.

And it is perhaps a reflection on the police, and on the new National Crime
Agency, that such a dramatic move is being looked at now. There is a widespread
public feeling that they have lost their way.

The police themselves are often absent, and the NCA - despite its racy publicity
as 'the British FBI' - has failed to impress.

They should take these discussions as a warning that they need to do better,
both at detection and at reassurance.

We'll drink to that

The ever-controversial Speaker, John Bercow, is in trouble for his very
expensive use of chauffeur-driven cars, and also faces criticism for making the
taxpayer fork out for his hospitality with wine and whisky.

If he wishes to reconnect with the normal world, and reduce the tax burden at
the same time, perhaps he could restore his popular credentials by driving
himself to France on a booze cruise, and stocking his cellar while taking
patriotic advantage of the strong pound.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                        July 27, 2015 Monday 1:38 PM GMT

UPDATE: India On High Alert After Six Killed In Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 556 words


NEW DELHI (Alliance News) - Security was tightened across India Monday as gunmen
dressed in military fatigues attacked a police station and shot at a bus in the
northern state of Punjab, killing six people including four policemen, officials
said.

Security was also increased along India's border with Pakistan across which the
militants were suspected of infiltrating.

At least three militants died as security forces and the rebels exchanged fire
for over 10 hours in Dinanagar in the Gurdaspur district of Punjab, IANS news
agency reported, citing police sources.

Six passengers were injured when the gunmen shot at a bus early Monday. They
then hijacked a car after shooting and injuring its driver and drove to the
police station where they occupied an adjacent abandoned building, chief
administrator Abhinav Trikha said.

"We did not hear the terrorists approach. They kept firing every five, six
minutes ... There was a woman among them," a policeman rescued from the station
told NDTV news channel as he was being escorted to the hospital.

Specially trained units of the Punjab Police then surrounded the police station
complex and engaged in a shoot-out with the militants.

The six people killed included two police constables and a senior officer, the
owner of a roadside eatery and two patients at a community health centre located
alongside the police station complex.

The militants were carrying AK-47 rifles with under-barrel grenade launchers,
NDTV reported. They were also carrying large amounts of ammunition.

The encounter took a long time because the police were trying to capture the
terrorists alive and because there were residences near the site, Home Ministry
sources were quoted as saying.

At least five bombs had been found on railway tracks between the towns of
Pathankot and Amritsar, also in Punjab, and were defused with the help of the
army, senior police official Rakesh Kaushal said. Trains on the route had been
suspended.

Federal government ministers and officials were scheduled to hold a high-level
meeting in New Delhi to discuss the attack, the response to it and the security
situation in the country.

Federal Home Minister Rajnath Singh said he would make a statement in parliament
on Tuesday.

Singh also tweeted that India's border security force had been told to increase
vigilance on the India-Pakistan border.

Security had been tightened across the country, especially in the metropolises
of Mumbai and New Delhi.

The police station at Dinanagar is near Punjab's border with neighbouring Jammu
and Kashmir state, and the international border with Pakistan, about 480
kilometres north-west of New Delhi.

The militants are suspected of belonging to Pakistan-based Islamic militant
group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was also responsible for the terrorist attack on
India's financial hub Mumbai in 2008, killing over 160 people, India Today
television channel reported, citing intelligence agency sources.

Punjab has had a history of Sikh separatist militancy but that died out about a
decade back.

The Pakistani Foreign Ministry condemned the attack.

"Pakistan reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations," the ministry said in a statement. "We extend heartfelt
sympathies and condolences to the Government and people of India and wish the
wounded speedy and full recovery."

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                       July 27, 2015 Monday 07:36 AM GMT

Terrorists Attack Indian Police Station, Five Dead

LENGTH: 190 words


NEW DELHI (Alliance News) - Gunmen dressed in military fatigues attacked a
police station and shot at a bus in the north Indian state of Punjab Monday,
killing five people, officials said.

One passenger was killed and others injured when the gunmen shot at a bus. They
also hijacked a car after shooting its driver and drove to the police station
where they shot and killed two policemen, NDTV news channel reported.

The gunmen were holed up in the police station and engaged in a shootout with
officers who had surrounded the building.

"There is no hostage situation according to our information so far," federal
junior interior minister Kiren Rijiju said.

Several bombs had reportedly been found on railway tracks near the police
station and were being defused. Trains on the route had been suspended.

Federal Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that India's border security force
had been told to increase vigilance on the India-Pakistan border.

The police station at Dinanagar is near Punjab's border with neighbouring Jammu
and Kashmir state, and the international border with Pakistan, about 480
kilometers north-west of New Delhi.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2015 Monday

UN envoy condemns "terrorist attack" on Somali hotel

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of statement attributed to the UN envoy to Somalia published by
privately-owned Somali Shabelle Media Network website on 26 July

The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia (SRSG),
Nicholas Kay, condemned today's terrorist attack on Jazeera Hotel in Mogadishu
that resulted in several deaths and injuries.

"I condemn the terrorist attack in Mogadishu today. The killers will not succeed
in impeding the progress and extraordinary efforts of the Somali people and
government," SRSG Kay said. "I commend the swift response of Somalia's security
and first responders. The perpetrators need to be brought to justice swiftly."

SRSG Kay offers his sincere condolences to the family and friends of all those
who have suffered, as well as to the Federal Government of Somalia.

He also extends his condolences to the family and friends of Abdullahi Husayn
Mahmud, a member of the federal parliament and lawmaker, and Sai'd Ali Saleh, a
government official, who were shot and killed in separate incidents yesterday.

"The United Nations and international partners will stand firm in our efforts
tohelp the Somali people to realize their aspirations for a secure and stable
future," SRSG Kay added.

Source: Shabelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in English 26 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2015 Monday

Cameroon steps up security in northern region following repeated terror attacks

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 27 July

[Presenter] Cameroonian authorities have announced the strengthening of security
measures in the north of the country. Between 300 and 500 soldiers are expected
in the north. Bars and businesses will close from 6pm every day.

These decisions were made after the attack that took place in Maroua town on
Saturday [25 July] evening that left 21 people dead and 80 injured in a bar in
the town. A 12-year old girl was the perpetrator of this attack.

Maroua, situated in the Far North Province of Cameroon experienced a similar
attack on Wednesday [22 July]. These attacks have been attributed to the Islamic
State in West Africa.

After such a violent week in the area, residents are traumatized. Gabriel
Puntomena [phonetic], a journalist working at a local radio station had this to
say

[Puntomena] Currently, the entire population in Maroua lives in great fear.
Everyone now walks with a lot of precaution. People usually come out to look for
specific things. There is no longer time to be wasted outdoors since one can
fall victim to an explosion.

Also, the people have been asked to collaborate with security forces because we
can intervene and dismantle the terror networks, and to take a lot of care when
they find themselves in unfamiliar places because they need to know who or what
is there.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0330 gmt 27 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

5,000 troops on the streets after a major terror attack

BYLINE: Emily Gosden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 364 words


AROUND 5,000 soldiers would be deployed on the streets of Britain in the wake of
major terrorist attacks, it has emerged.

The troops would be sent to guard key targets in major cities if Islamic State
of Iraq and Levant (Isil) or other terror groups launched multiple attacks on UK
soil, under a government plan codenamed Operation Temperer.

Details were disclosed by the Mail on Sunday after accidentally being uploaded
to the National Police Chiefs Council website last week.

Officers had been briefed on the plan by Deputy Chief Constable Simon
Chesterman, the 'national lead' for armed policing, during an NPCC meeting in
Leicester in April.

Under the heading "counter-terrorism post-Paris large-scale military support to
the police", minutes of the meeting disclosed that up to 5,100 troops could be
deployed, "based on force assessments of how many military officers could
augment armed police officers engaged in protective security duties".

Soldiers would serve alongside armed police officers to protect against further
attacks while plotters were hunted down.

Baroness Jones, a member of London's Police and Crime Committee, said the plan
would be "unprecedented on mainland Britain".

Sources told the newspaper that Operation Temperer would only be triggered by a
Cobra meeting, and that the plan had been discussed at the highest level.

Raffaello Pantucci, of the Royal United Services Institute think tank, said the
plan was "sensible".

He added: "You really have to have contingency planning, to prepare for
potentially the worst.

"If you had multiple sites, as they had in the Paris attacks, it is possible you
would have overstretch, you would look to other options and the Army would be
the most obvious port of call."

A NPCC spokesman said it constantly reviewed contingency plans. He added that
the minutes of the meeting were uploaded to the NPCC's website last Thursday and
revised on Friday when it was realised that details from the closed session had
been included.

A spokesman for the Ministry of Defence said it, "works closely with other
government departments and agencies to ensure that it is able to provide
appropriate assistance in response to any security threats."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                              July 27, 2015 Monday

Top UN official in Somalia condemns terrorist attack on hotel in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 232 words


The most senior United Nations official in Somalia has strongly condemned
today's terrorist attack on Jazeera Hotel in Mogadishu that resulted in several
deaths and injuries.



"I condemn the terrorist attack in Mogadishu today. The killers will not succeed
in impeding the progress and extraordinary efforts of the Somali people and
Government," Nicholas Kay, the Special Representative of the UN
Secretary-General for Somalia, said in a statement.

According to press reports, the attack on the hotel killed several people
wounded at least 20 others.

"I commend the swift response of Somalia's security and first responders. The
perpetrators need to be brought to justice swiftly," the UN official added.

Mr. Kay, who also heads up the UN Assistance Mission in Somallia (UNSOM),
offered his sincere condolences to the family and friends of all those who have
suffered, as well as to the Federal Government of Somalia.

He also extends his condolences to the family and friends of Abdulahi Hussein
Mohamud, a Member of the Federal Parliament and lawmaker, and Sai'd Ali Saleh, a
government official, who were shot and killed in separate incidents yesterday.

"The United Nations and international partners will stand firm in our efforts
tohelp the Somali people to realize their aspirations for a secure and stable
future," Mr. Kay added in the statement.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        July 27, 2015 Monday 1:00 AM GMT

British army reluctant to post troops on UK streets after terror attacks;
Arguments against include shortage of soldiers, morale problems and difficulties
in assessing when threat levels had dropped enough to pull them back

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Defence and security correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 495 words


The British army is resistant to the idea of deploying thousands of troops on to
UK streets in the event of a terrorist attack on home soil, despite the
perceived increase in threat from groups such as Islamic State.

Although the army has drawn up detailed contingency plans, it is understood to
be reluctant to follow the example of the French military, which sent 10,000
troops on to the streets of Paris and elsewhere around the country after the
Charlie Hebdo attack.

Plans for up to 5,100 troops to "augment armed police officers engaged in
protective security duties" were revealed in documents accidentally uploaded to
the National Police Chief Council's (NPCC) website, according to a Mail on
Sunday report.

The plan was contained in the minutes of a closed session of the NPCC held on 22
April in a hotel in Leicester. The minutes were then inadvertently uploaded to
the council's website.

While the Ministry of Defence has plans for backing up the police following
major terrorist attacks, there is resistance to committing large numbers of
troops for indefinite policing duties.

Part of the argument against is that the army, having been cut down from 102,000
to 82,000, is already overstretched and that if 5,000 troops were to be deployed
to the streets, it would leave a significant hole in the number available for
military duties.

There could also be a morale problem after the initial novelty of being posted
to the streets begins to wear off, with the attendant boredom of guard duty day
after day.

But the biggest single objection is that once troops are committed to the
streets, it is hard to pull them back. It would require the security services to
declare that the threat level had dropped sufficiently to allow them to return
to barracks.

France initially deployed 10,000 troops, 7,000 of whom are to become a presence
on the streets for the foreseeable future, the president, François Hollande, has
announced. Italy, too, has deployed 5,000 troops on its streets.

David Cameron put the British army on standby after the Charlie Hebdo attack but
in the end accepted the arguments against deployment. The issue has been
discussed at meetings of Cobra, the government crisis group which brings
ministers together with senior military and security staff.

The plan reportedly revealed in the leaked minutes is codenamed Operation
Temperer and would see troops backing up the police in guarding potential
targets while counter-terrorist officers and MI5 hunted for attackers.

The week after the Charlie Hebdo attack Cameron asked Britain's
counter-terrorism police to continue working with the military on contingency
plans for attacks by roving armed bands, citing not just the example of Paris
but the multiple attacks in 2008 in Mumbai.

When Tony Blair was prime minister, he authorised the deployment of 450 troops
in 2003 to help with security at Heathrow airport and elsewhere around London.

During the Northern Ireland Troubles the army deployed 21,000 troops.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 27, 2015 Monday 10:42 PM GMT

Brazen terror attack 'bears Pakistan's dark mark': 11 dead in Gurdaspur as
terrorists target a bus, trains, and a police station

BYLINE: MANJEET SEHGAL and ABHISHEK BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 969 words


The idyllic morning calm in Dinanagar town of Gurdaspur district was pierced by
whizzing bullets at 5.30am on Monday, when three heavily armed terrorists
attacked a bus, hospital and police station.

An 11-hour encounter with the terror-mongers ended with 11 casualties, including
the terrorists. The latest strike bears a striking resemblance to the recent
attacks carried out by Pakistan-based terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir.

In an attempt to hide their identity, the terrorists had even removed tags on
their clothes.

The police also recovered weapons and Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment
from the building where the terrorists were holed up.

The two GPS devices recovered from the slain terrorists could give an idea about
the place they had started their journey from.

None of the terror groups has yet taken responsibility for the terror attack.
The security agencies are also tight-lipped about the identity of the militants
killed in the encounter.

Sources say the ISI may have planned the terror attack with the help of local
terror outfits. There have been a series of attacks on security forces in the
past two years, but the government appears to be clueless as to how terrorists
are infiltrating and carrying out fidayeen attacks on the forces.

The Army - guarding the Line of Control (LoC) - and the Border Security Force
(BSF), securing the International Border with Pakistan, have denied any
possibility of infiltration.

The Dinanagar attack has the signature of recent attacks carried out by
Lashkar-e-Taiba or Jaish-e-Mohammed. The modus operandi has been similar -
targeting police stations or Army posts, hijacking a civilian vehicle, and
firing indiscriminately before launching a massive strike on a security
establishment.

Constant intelligence inputs have been generated about LeT terrorists across the
border making attempts to sneak in and carry out attacks. A recent input
generated by the Intelligence Bureau on July 24 said 10 LeT terrorists, headed
by Lashkar commander Maqbool Khan, were trying to inflitrate from Dudhiniyal,
Jammu, to attack India. The alert mentioned that terrorists could target police
stations, schools and government buildings.

Recent intelligence inputs have also revealed that new terror launch pads within
striking distance from the International Border have been set up by LeT.

Backed by Pakistani forces, these have been set up in areas close to the border,
ensuring that the distance is so short that it takes only a few minutes to cross
over into Jammu and carry out fidayeen attacks. It is felt that recent attacks
on security establishments have been part of this strategy.

Intelligence reports suggest that camps have been identified in border areas
where trained terrorists are brought and given final instructions for the
assault. Bada Bhai Masroor, Abhial Dogra, Chaprar, Sukhmal and Charkbhura in
Pakistan, close to the Jammu border, have been identified as the launch pads
controlled by LeT.

Terrorists who have undergone training in camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are
brought to these areas and put on standby to strike at short notice.

Sources say that with security forces unable to identify the infiltration
points, there is a need to carry out some sort of inquiry to assess how the
infiltrations are happening.

"It's a serious issue and needs immediate action. It's been happening for long
but there is uncertainty," said a government officer.

In Monday's attack by Army fatigues-wearing militants, 11 people - three cops,
three civilians, two home guard jawans, and the three terrorists - were killed
and 15 others injured. The toll, according to police sources, could go up as the
condition of some of the injured is critical.

Dinanagar police station SHO Mukhtiar Singh is among the injured.

The police said the attackers first targeted a roadside eatery and took off in a
Maruti 800 vehicle after attacking the car owner. They also shot a roadside
vendor near the Dinanagar bypass. They then attacked a Chandigarhbound state
roadways bus, spraying it with bullets and injuring two passengers.

Driver Nanak Chand's courage and presence of mind in driving the bus straight
into the firing terrorists succeeded in saving the lives of 75 persons on board
the bus.

The militants later stormed a hospital and police station, where Gurdaspur
Superintendent of Police Baljeet Singh died after getting hit in the head while
fighting the suspected infiltrators bullet for bullet.

"The mission was successful. The terrorists were carrying sophisticated weapons.
We have recovered China-made grenades from the fatigues-wearing terrorists,"
Director General of Punjab Police Sumedh Singh Saini said.

Intelligence inputs suggest that the terrorists could have come from Narowal in
Pakistan and made their way south after infiltrating through the Jammu- Samba
area. Dinanagar town is 15 km from the India-Pakistan border and 25 km from
Punjab's border with J&K.

Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal held a high-level meeting with top
civil and police officials at his residence to review the situation in the wake
of the terror attack.

Badal was closely monitoring the situation since early hours, when the news of
the attack first came in. He cancelled his scheduled Sangat Darshan in Baba
Bakala Assembly constituency of Amritsar district and was overseeing the
government response on a minute-to-minute basis. He also dispatched Saini to
Dinanagar to spearhead police operations against the terrorists.

The DGP is camping there since morning. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh
Badal lauded the bravery and prompt action of SWAT (Special Weapon & Tactics
Team) of Punjab Police.

In view of the gruesome attack, security has been beefed up across the country,
especially in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 27, 2015 Monday 8:53 AM GMT

'There is no solution except Jihad in the path of Allah': Leader of Somali
terror group Al-Shabaab sends out chilling call for fresh wave of terror attacks
across east Africa

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1078 words



     ·    Ahmed Omar Abu-Ubeyda became chief of Al-Shabaab in September 2014
     ·    He is one among the commanders who wants to pledge allegiance to ISIS
     ·    The extremist has called on east-Africans to 'migrate to the lands of
          Jihad'
     ·    Al-Shabaab has slaughtered 'thousands' in Somalia, neigbhouring Kenya
     ·    But the terror group has been beaten back from its strongholds this
          year


The leader of Somali terror-group Al-Shabaab has urged Muslims in east-Africa to
rise up against the 'evil Christians'.

In an online statement obtained by MailOnline, Ahmed Omar Abu-Ubeyda told them
to 'migrate to the lands of Jihad' and seek out battlefields all over the world.

He also welcomed the people of Ethiopia, Djibouti, Uganda and the dangerously
unstable Central African Republic to come to Al-Shabaab's terror training camps.



Ubeyda was appointed the group's leader in September 2014 after Ahmed Abdi
Godane was killed in a U.S. airstrike.

The extremist has made his first public statement since becoming the terror
group's chief in the new report called 'Eid greetings to the Muslim ummah
[community]'.

He justified Al-Shabaab's cross-border attacks on Kenya in the hate-filled
document by saying they were revenge for the 'oppression and humiliation'
Muslims are facing in his own nation.

Ubeyda continued by urging Muslims all over Africa to join other jihadists on
'battlefields' around the world, saying: 'Liberate your lands from the crusader
forces.'

He sickeningly described one of the group's most bloodthirsty raids on a Kenyan
university where hundreds of innocent people were gunned down as 'blessed'.

And he congratulated the vile gunmen who carried out the attack, saying: 'Keep
up the good work and continue slaying the crusaders and purifying the Muslim
lands from their filth.'

'Indeed, the age in which the disbelievers used to perpetrate their crimes
without being held to account has passed.'

To the so-called 'oppressed Muslims' in East Africa, Ubeyda says Al-Shabaab will
help arm them, adding: 'Our training camps are ready to receive you'.

And he advised the Muslims in Burma, who are persecuted by their own government,
to be 'patient and stand firm'.

He tells them that joining the global jihad is the only solution to 'confronting
the tyrannical systems of disbelief that have been forcefully imposed upon your
necks'.

Finally he accuses the 'enemies of Allah' - presumably the West and coalition of
African forces fighting the group - of spying on its leaders, corrupting the
Muslim youth, imposing embargoes to 'strangulate the economy of Muslims' and
'kindling the flames of war' between Muslim tribes.

His appointment as the group's leader reportedly divided Al-Shabaab because the
group's senior commanders wanted another fanatic, Mukhtar Ronow Abu-Mansoor, to
lead them.

Earlier this month, sources inside al-Shabaab told MailOnline that Ubeyda was
among the senior commanders who wanted to pledge allegiance to ISIS and help the
terror group extend its so-called caliphate to east-Africa.

Since it was created in 2006, the Al-Qaeda-linked group has slaughtered
thousands of civilians and soldiers in Somalia and neighbouring Kenya.

In September 2013, it killed 62 and injured 120 more in an armed raid on the
Westgate shopping mall in the Kenyan city, Nairobi. The group said the bloody
attack was payback for the deployment of Kenyan troops in Somalia.

On April 2, the group carried out its bloodiest attack when it massacred 147
students at a Kenyan university.

Its gunmen held over 700 students hostage, freeing Muslims and executing those
it suspected of being Christians.

Last year, it was thought Al-Shabaab commanded over 9,000 fighters, which
included at least 50 Britons.

Among them is the 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite who commands a terrifying
army of up to 200 female jihadis who she has trained to infiltrate governments,
carry out suicide attacks, MailOnline learned in May.

Astonishing reports suggest she has masterminded the murders of 400 people -
including the senseless slaughter at Garissa University - since becoming a 'key
member' of the terror group.

Another British-born extremist, Thomas Evans from Buckinghamshire, was one of 11
Al-Shabaab militants who died after attacking a military base in northern Kenya
in June. He was known as the 'White Beast' because of his brutality.

A combination of U.S. airstrikes and major ground offensives by Somali and
Kenyan forces helped drive the extremists out of 20 major towns by the start of
2015 - relegating them to rural areas.

Only last week African Union soldiers exterminated the group from one of its
main bases of Bardere, a major agricultural town in Somalia's south-west.

A Somali army official said: 'There was no major resistance and the violent
elements fled when our troops approached... They have emptied the town.'

The raid was part of a nationwide effort to weaken the group ahead of a two-day
visit by U.S. President Barack Obama today.

Al-Shabaab's decision to leave Al-Qaeda and join ISIS comes at a time when its
leaders are being killed in commando and drone strikes, the group is losing
territory and its money is running out as a result.

Islamic State urged the east-African terrorists to join forces with them through
a propaganda video released in March - urging it to wage war on neighbouring
Kenya, Ethiopia and Tanzania.

We share many things with ISIS ideologically and we are ready to help our Muslim
brothers and sisters around the globe under a united leadership Senior
Al-Shabaab commander

Al-Shabaab's senior figures held a secret meeting in the Middle Juba region
earlier this month.

A senior commander told MailOnline: 'It is still an ongoing process to reach a
final decision in the next weeks and months... We [the leaders] are now on same
boat.

'I do not want to comment about why [Al-Shabaab] is willing to leave and cut
ties with al-Qaeda and its leader Ayman al-Zawihiri.'

'Islamic State captured Muslim's attention globally and regionally in terms of
leading global Jihad.

'We share many things with ISIS ideologically and we are ready to help our
Muslim brothers and sisters around the globe under a united leadership with one
agenda and ideology.

Ubeyda and his deputy Mahad Karate both agreed to join the rapidly-expanding
Islamic State at the meeting - and urged their fanatical followers to ditch
al-Qaeda too, Garowe Online reported.

In March, ISIS has taken a terrifying stranglehold on Nigeria after another
terror group Boko Haram pledged allegiance to the terror group.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       July 27, 2015 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Troops on the street after multiple terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes, Defence Editor

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 295 words


The military is ready to deploy more than 5,000 soldiers, including special
forces, across Britain in the event of a large-scale terrorist attack, it was
confirmed yesterday.

The troops would act in support of the police. They would be used to guard key
infrastructure, such as airports, stations or shopping centres in main cities,
and could also help to set up cordons to cover large rural areas, such as a
forest, in the event of a manhunt, defence sources said.

Operation Temperer, the plan for the military role in responding to a terrorist
incident, was drawn up by the Ministry of Defence and the Home Office. It is
based on what kind of response would be needed in the event of an attack like
the Mumbai massacre in 2008 or the Charlie Hebdo slaughter in France in January.

It is understood that the government had been planning to make details of the
military response public in the coming days but the plan was accidentally posted
on the National Police Chiefs Council's website as part of minutes of a meeting
held in April and spotted by a national newspaper.

The Mail on Sunday published the plan yesterday. It also claimed that senior
police officers had discussed raising the terror threat level in Britain from
severe to the highest level of critical - meaning that a terror attack is
imminent rather than highly likely - after the Paris attacks.

The Times understands that there is extreme nervousness about deploying the army
in public roles, such as patrolling the streets. "Army personnel are trained for
combat," one Whitehall source said. "The police are trained to deal with
domestic terror attacks."

The police, however, lack the capacity in terms of armed officers to deal with
multiple terrorist attacks at once.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Pakistan condemns terror attack in north Indian state

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report by Pakistani news agency APP

Islamabad, 27 Jul: Pakistan on Monday [27 July] condemned in strongest terms,
the terrorist incident in Gurdaspur, India that resulted in loss of number of
precious lives.

"There are reports of others having suffered injuries. Our thoughts are with the
bereaved families", said a statement issued from the Office of Foreign Office
Spokesman.

"Pakistan reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations", the statement said, adding, "We extend heartfelt sympathies and
condolences to the Government and people of India and wish the wounded speedy
and full recovery."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1503gmt
27 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

"Terrorist" attacks in Syrian capital, other cities kill one, injure others

LENGTH: 442 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, 27 July: A civilian was killed Monday [27 July] and at least 14
[others] were injured in mortar shells fired by terrorists at al-Zablatani area
[in eastern Damascus] and Damascus Sheraton Hotel.

A source at the police command told SANA that terrorists of the so-called "Jaish
al-Islam" [Jaysh al-Islam], fired three shells that landed in al-Zablatani
residential area, causing the death of one civilian and injury of 13 others in
addition to material damage inflicted upon three cars.

The source added that a mortar shell fired by terrorists fell in the vicinity of
Damascus Sheraton Hotel leaving a dustman injured, while another mortar shell
landed in Bab Touma [Bab Tuma] neighbourhood caused material damage in one of
the houses.

Earlier on the day, terrorists targeted Mazzeh [Mazzah] area with seven mortar
shells, causing the injury of a child and material damage in the properties in
the area.

Terrorists also targeted the residential suburb of Harasta in Damascus
Countryside with more than ten mortar shells on Monday, injuring two civilians.

A source in police command told SANA that 12 mortar shells fell on the suburb,
injuring a man and a woman who were hospitalized. The attack also caused
material damages to some houses, shops, cars, and private properties.

Meanwhile, eight people were wounded in two terrorist attacks using explosive
devices in [the predominantly Kurdish city of] Al-Qamishli, 80 kilometres to the
north of the eastern Al-Hasakah province.

At first, terrorists detonated an explosive device which they had planted
earlier on a bicycle parked in front of Al-Bayan school at the centre of
Al-Qamishli city, a source in Al-Hasakah province told SANA reporter.

Later, a second attack by terrorist suicide bomber on a motorbike took place at
the entrance of the sheep market in Alaya neighbourhood in the city, injuring
five and causing material damage.

A source at the national hospital of Al-Qamishli asserted that eight people who
sustained injuries from shrapnel as a result of the bombings were admitted to
the hospital and their injuries range from light to moderate.

In Aleppo city, five civilians were injured in a terrorist attack with rocket
shells that targeted Nayyal area.

A source at the police command told SANA that Jabhat al-Nusra
[Al-Qa'idah-affiliated AL-Nusrah Front] terrorists located in al-Sayyed Ali
neighbourhood targeted Nayyal area near the Old City with rocket shells,
injuring five civilians and causing material damages to public and private
properties.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 2320 gmt 27 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in Somalian capital

LENGTH: 127 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Marziyeh Afkham has condemned the recent
terrorist attack in Somalia, Fars news agency reported on 28 July.

"Extremism has no result except the killing of innocent people and strengthening
of the roots of hatred and violence," Fars quoted Afkham as saying.

Marziyeh Afkham expressed her sadness over the incident and stressed the need
for global unity in order to fight extremism seriously and practically. She also
offered condolences on behalf of Iran to the Somalian government, people and
families of the victims, Fars reported.

The report added that dozens of people were killed or injured in a blast at a
hotel in the capital city of Mogadishu on 26 July.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0833gmt 28 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Seven Killed In Suspected Punjab Terror Attack

LENGTH: 113  words



HIGHLIGHT: Seven people were killed and 15 injured in an alleged terror attack
in the Indian state of Punjab on July 27.


News: Seven people were killed and 15 injured in an alleged terror attack in the
Indian state of Punjab on July 27. Three suspected militants in the pre-dawn
strike wore Indian Army uniforms as they hijacked a car and drove to the
Dinanagar town before indiscriminately firing bullets on a roadside eatery and a
passenger bus. The militants later entered a police station. According to the
police, of the seven persons killed, three were civilians, one was a
Superintendent of Police, while three were home guards. In the exchange of fire
with security forces, all three militants were killed at an abandoned building
adjacent to the Dinanagar police station (GreaterKashmir.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 28, 2015 Tuesday 5:40 AM GMT

Brit tourists in Turkey at risk from terrorist attacks on trains and buses

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 352 words


BRIT tourists visiting Turkey have been urged to stay away from public transport
amid fears of terrorist attacks.

ANADOLU/MOMENT

TERROR: Train stations and bus stops in Istanbul are reported terror targets

Train stations and bus stops in Istanbul - used by thousands of commuters a day
- could reportedly be targetted by terror groups.

Foreign Office bosses warned: "On 27 July there were reports of possible threats
to public transport in Istanbul."

The metro stations most at risk are Taksim, Osmanbey, Yenikapi and Haciosman,
officials added.

Over 2.5million sun-seeking Brits visit Turkey every year - but the Foreign
Office has now told holidaymakers to avoid certain regions.

GALLO

DANGER: Home Office officials have warned tourists to avoid public transport

The warning comes 1,000 people were detained by terror police in a crackdown on
militant groups including Islamic State.

The first raids took place on Friday morning, with 5,000 armed police and
special forces agents storming over 100 addresses across the country.

Some took place on coastal resorts popular with British holidaymakers - such as
the western town of Izmir, close to Bodrum and the Greek islands.

Turkey's fightback against ISIS began after the group claimed responsibility for
a bomb attack in the town of Suruc that killed 32 people.

After the attack, the Foreign Office warned tourists: "There's a high threat
from terrorism in Turkey.

"There are active terrorist groups throughout the country.

"These include domestic religious extremist and ideological groups, and
international groups involved in the conflict in Syria.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect places visited by foreigners."

Related articles Children watch as sick ISIS terrorists push man off tall
building for being gay Last of 'Pompey Lad' Brit jihadis killed in US drone
strike ISIS terrorists flog sick souvenirs at Iraq 'fan shop'
brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Terror attack on bus kills 10

BYLINE: stuartsandler

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 82 words


INDIA: At least 10 people are dead after gunmen attacked a moving bus and
stormed a police station.

The attackers hijacked a car and then fired at the bus and a roadside eatery
before entering a police station near Gurdaspur, a town in Punjab state, close
to the border with Pakistan.

Eight people are in hospital with injuries, with seven of them in serious
condition.

Police are investigating whether the militants came from the Indian portion of
Kashmir or from Pakistan after crossing the border.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Minister Nicholson Strongly Condemns Repeated Terrorist Attacks in Cameroon

LENGTH: 177 words


OTTAWA, Canada -- The Honourable Rob Nicholson, P.C., Q.C., M.P. for Niagara
Falls, Minister of Foreign Affairs, today issued the following statement:



"Canada condemns in the strongest terms the latest terrorist attack in Cameroon.
The bomb blast, which took place at a popular night spot on Saturday evening,
claimed the lives of 21 people and wounded more than 85 others. The suicide
attack took place in the town of Maroua, a strategic town in the fight against
Boko Haram. This is the fifth suicide attack in less than two weeks in Cameroon
where such attacks are unprecedented.

"Although Boko Haram has not claimed responsibility for this attack, the
terrorist organization is the likely perpetrator.

"These attacks serve only to strengthen our resolve to fight terrorism.

"On behalf of all Canadians, I offer my sincere condolences to the families and
friends of those killed and wish a speedy recovery to the injured."

Canada listed Boko Haram as a terrorist entity in December 2013.

African Press Organization (APO)



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Tributes to Tunisia terror attack victim

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 229 words


ABOUT 200 mourners attended the funeral of a "devoted" husband and father
murdered in last month's mass shooting in Tunisia.

Family, friends and colleagues of veteran social worker John Stollery were
joined by members of his former army regiment - the 2nd Battalion of the
Parachute Regiment - at the service in Walesby, Nottinghamshire.

He was among 30 British tourists killed by gunman Saif Al-Deen Al Rezgui in the
resort of Sousse on June 28.

Two Scots couples were among the victims, with the total number of people killed
at 38.

Mr Stollery, 58, worked for Nottinghamshire County Council for more than three
decades, including 16 years dedicated to helping children in care.

In a statement before the funeral, his wife Cheryl said: "John was a devoted
husband, my best friend and a fantastic dad to our son Matthew and we miss him
every moment of every day. Matt and I are finding it extremely difficult to come
to terms with the way John was taken from us in such a horrific and tragic way
when we were just on a family holiday together."

Speaking of her pride at the "outstanding" tributes paid to her husband since
his death, the widow added: "John, you always gave of yourself to others and to
us so we could have brighter future."

Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, Perthshire, and Jim and Ann McQuire, from
Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, also died in the terror attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Lurgan Mail

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Family terror as teens attack

LENGTH: 324  words


A Lurgan mum has told of her terror as a gang of up to 50 youths' went on the
rampage in Taghnevan and smashed up her car.

The mum, who was too frightened to be named, said the Friday night attack had
left her very emotional and in tears.

She said thugs had smashed up her car and caused huge damage to the vehicle
including boot marks on the bonnet.

The woman said gangs of youths' are regularly invading the black path close to
the playing fields and torturing locals.

She praised the PSNI who arrived quickly when she called them on Friday evening.

"They chased them up the fields," said the Taghnevan mum.

She added that when she spoke to police soon after, an officer told her none of
the kids appeared to be from the area. "He told me they were from Laurencetown
and when the police asked what they were doing round here, they gave them cheek,
saying they could go where they like."

She called for the authorities to close off the black path as it has been a
magnet for anti-social behaviour. "We have been calling for that path to be
closed off for years," she said.

"A lot of people are fed up because you can't go out and give off to these kids
anymore. It's just too scary as you don't now what they are going to do to you,"
she added.

"Even the police can do nothing about it, even though they try. Everyone's hands
seem to be tied," she said.

The young mum recalled how the NI Fire Service had to be called last week when a
bunch of girls aged around 16/17 gathered dried grass and put it up against a
neighbour's fence setting it on fire.

"These young ones are all drinking and everyone suspects them to be doing drugs
as well.

"These children are being allowed to run the streets wild. I blame the parents
but none of them seem to want to own up that it is their own children doing it,"
she added. Since the incident the woman said she has received a lot of community
support and called for the black path at the playing field to be sealed off.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INLM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 28, 2015 Tuesday 4:42 AM GMT

'How do you sleep at night?' The tense moment family and friends of Bali bombing
victims confront the terrorist who carried out the attacks face to face

BYLINE: SARAH MICHAEL FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words



     ·    Balinese locals Nyoman Rencini and Ni Luh Erniati lost husbands in
          2002
     ·    Melbourne man Jan Laczynski lost five friends in the Bali bombings
     ·    They confront one of the terrorists who carried out the attacks, Ali
          Imron, and the man who gave him weapons training, Nasir Abbas, on SBS
          Dateline
     ·    It is the first time Imron has faced families of the terror attack
          victims
     ·    Meet The Terrorists, a two-part special, begins airing tonight at
          9.30pm


The family members and friends of Bali bombing victims have come face-to-face
with one of the terrorists responsible for the attacks for the first time ever.

Balinese locals Nyoman Rencini and Ni Luh Erniati lost their husbands and
Melbourne man Jan Laczynski lost five friends in the 2002 bombing of the Sari
Club in the tourist district of Kuta.

In a two-part special on SBS's Dateline  they meet one of the terrorists who
carried out the attacks, Ali Imron, and the man who gave him weapons training,
Nasir Abbas, to confront them over the devastating effect the attack has had on
their lives.

Scroll down for video

For years Australian man Mr Laczynski made Bali his 'home away from home'.

He worked for an airline and took advantage of discount airfares, spending most
weekends on the Indonesian holiday island and most nights at the Sari Club where
he had made friends with many staff members.

He had just left Bali to fly home on the night of the attack on October 12 2002
but five of his friends who worked in the club as security guards died in the
blast.

Imron - who drove the vehicle containing explosives and suicide bombers to the
club - faces the three grieving loved ones in the second episode of the two-part
special, which airs next week.

In a tense moment, Imron reaches out to shake Mr Laczynski's hand but he
refuses.

'I'm not going to shake somebody's hand that killed five of my friends,' Mr
Laczynski says.

Mr Laczynski goes on to confront Imron, who has been sentenced to life in
prison, about why he drove the bomb vehicle.

'How do you sleep at night?' he asks.

Ms Erniati, whose husband was working at the Sari Club when he was killed in the
terrorist attack, says she just wants Imron to hear her story.

Ms Erniati said after her husband was killed, leaving her to look after their
two sons alone, people in the community doubted she would be able to raise them
properly.

'I think it's important for Ali to know, for him to hear directly from me, as a
victim,' she said.

In the first episode, set to air at 9.30pm tonight, Mr Laczynski meets former
terrorist trainer Abbas, who was a leader in the Indonesian terror group Jemaah
Islamiyah.

'Meeting a terrorist is the hardest thing you'll ever do,' he told Dateline
reporter Rebecca Henschke.

'You don't want to do it, but at the same time, you want to know why... why,
why?'

Abbas gave weapons and explosives training to the terrorists who carried out the
bombings including Ali Imron, his brothers Mukhlas and Amrozi, and their
accomplice Imam Samudra.

He said his brother-in-law Mukhlas - who has since been executed along with
Amrozi and Samudra - started sympathising with the terrorist organisation after
'agreeing with the appeals made by Osama bin Laden' in 1999.

'Which is why he led the people who carried out the Bali bombing, in the effort
to establish an Islamic state,' Abbas said.

Abbas has now left Jemaah Islamiyah and has been working with Indonesian
authorities on deradicalisation programs since 2003, speaking to 300 people
charged with terror offences.

'Please tell to others in Australia that I feel sorry,' Abbas told Mr Laczynski
during their emotional meeting.

'I'm not asking for them to forgive me, but let them know what I'm doing now is
against the terrorism.'

Mr Laczynski said he hoped Abbas was telling the truth.

'You're milling in your mind all this stuff, whether he's genuinely part of the
solution or is he still part of the problem?' he said.

Ms Ni Luh said she hoped his work made a difference, but Ms Rencini - who was
left to bring up her three children alone when her taxi driver husband was
killed in the terror attack - said his words just brought up her sadness.

'No matter how well he explained it, I couldn't accept it,' she said.

Meet The Terrorists, a Dateline two-part special, airs Tuesday July 28 at 9.30pm
and Tuesday August 4 at 9.30pm on SBS

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 28, 2015 Tuesday 7:42 PM GMT

Turkey is paying a high price for its double standards over Islamic State;
A spate of Isil terrorist attacks against Turkey is the reason President Recep
Tayyip Erdogan has agreed to allow US warplanes access to Turkish air bases

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin Defence Editor

LENGTH: 1280 words


First, the good news. After months of dithering, the Turkish president Recep
Tayyip Erdogan has given his approval for America to use the Incirlik air base
in southern Turkey to mount air strikes against Islamic State (Isil) positions
across the border in Syria.

Nearly a year after coalition planes began bombing Isil forces in Syria and
Iraq, there is already much excitement being expressed in Washington that the
Turkish decision could prove to be a game-changer in the campaign to defeat the
Islamist menace. It will allow coalition forces to monitor more closely Turkey's
500-mile border with Syria, which has been the main conduit through which Isil
has smuggled arms and recruits, as well as enabling American warplanes to
respond more quickly against likely Isil targets.

The bad news, though, is that the Turks' decision has been somewhat undermined
by Ankara's renewal of hostilities against its long-standing foe, the Syrian
Kurds .

The Syrian conflict is complicated enough without the Turks confusing matters
even more by opening up another front against the Kurds, the majority of whom
are seen as vital allies of the West.

On one side you have the Assad regime desperately trying to cling to power with
the help of their allies in Tehran and the Iranian-backed Hizbollah militia in
southern Lebanon. On the other, you have an estimated 1,200 Syrian opposition
groups trying to lay claim to Damascus, with Isil and other more moderate ones,
such as the Syrian Free Army, leading the charge.

Amid this chaotic landscape, the Syrian Kurds are one of the few combatant
groups that have proved themselves to be heroic allies of the West's cause.
Backed by American air strikes, the Kurds fought valiantly to reclaim the
strategically important border town of Kobani after it had been captured by Isil
last year, one of the few high points for the West in a campaign that has
otherwise failed to impress.

So the fact that Turkish planes are now bombing Kurdish positions in Syria, as
well as those belonging to Isil, is counter-productive to the coalition effort,
to say the least. In their defence, the Turks say they are only attacking
positions held by the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, an extreme nationalist
group that has a long history of committing acts of terrorism against Turkish
citizens, as a result of which it is officially designated a terrorist
organisation by a number of states and organisations, including the US and Nato.

Before the Syrian civil war erupted four years ago, the PKK enjoyed the active
support of the Assad regime, so much so that on several occasions Syria and
Turkey came close to hostilities.

This bad blood was one of the reasons that Mr Erdogan aligned himself with the
struggle to overthrow the Assad regime, an alliance that has prompted
accusations that Ankara has colluded with Isil militants in Iraq.

The Turks' ambivalent relationship with Isil, as well as their insistence that
the coalition should concentrate its efforts should on removing Assad, have been
the main stumbling blocks to closer cooperation between Ankara and the US.

Now, so far as Ankara's dealings with Isil are concerned, the Turks are paying a
heavy price for their double standards. The Isil suicide bomb attack against the
border town of Suruc this month, in which 32 people were killed and 100 injured,
has finally persuaded Mr Erdogan's government that Isil poses just as great a
threat to Turkey's security as it does to the rest of the region.

But if the Suruc bombing, together with a number of other Isil cross-border
attacks against the Turkish military, has been the catalyst for Mr Erdogan's
change of heart, the Turks' obsession with the Kurds means they are still a long
way from becoming reliable allies.

As James Clapper, the US director of intelligence, notably remarked during a
recent briefing to Congress, Turkey has "other priorities and other interests"
so far as the Syrian conflict is concerned.

Mr Erdogan's determination to confront the Kurds, moreover, has deepened as a
result of the strong showing by the moderate Kurdish People's Democratic Party
(HDP) in last month's parliamentary elections, which dealt the president a
severe blow as his Justice and Development Party (AKP) lost its overall majority
for the first time in more than a decade.

Mr Erdogan is desperate to regain ground against the Kurds, and many opposition
politicians see his sudden enthusiasm for reopening hostilities with the PKK as
a clumsy attempt to portray Kurds - be they Turkish, Syrian or Iraq - as being
sympathetic to the PKK's terrorist agenda.

The tactic may help Mr Erdogan to regain his parliamentary majority, but it will
do nothing to assist the coalition war effort against Isil.

What Mr Erdogan needs to understand it that, even if the Turks disown Isil, they
cannot bomb the Kurds and still be considered dependable allies.

Syrian/Turkish relations: A timeline Turkey is being dragged further into the
four-year conflict in neighbouring Syria following a deadly suicide attack,
blamed on Isil, that killed 32 activists near the border. September 13, 2011"The
Syrian people do not believe al-Assad, I do not either," says Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, then premier, a few months after calling the Syrian leader his
"friend". Mr Erdogan warns of civil war in Syria.October 2, 2011Following a
series of meetings in several Turkish cities, Syrian opposition leaders announce
the creation of the Syrian National Council (SNC), which groups political
factions opposed to the Assad regime. November 15, 2011Turkey passes its first
sanctions against Syria, and halts joint oil exploration with the country. June
22, 2012A Turkish plane that Ankara says was on a training mission in
international airspace is shot down by Syrian forces. May 11, 2013Twin attacks
kill 52 people in Reyhanli, a large Turkish town near the border with Syria.
September 16, 2014Isil militants attack the Syrian border town of Kobane, and
seize parts of it. Kobane becomes the scene of fierce battles. May 16,
2015Turkey says it has shot down a Syrian helicopter that violated its
airspace.July 20, 2015At least 32 people die when a suspected Isil suicide
bomber attacks a gathering of activists in the town of Suruc, near the
Syrian/Turkish border. July 22, 2015The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) claims
the killing of two Turkish policemen in the border town of Ceylanpinar in
revenge for the Suruc massacre.A government spokesman denounces the murders as
"a terrorist act perpetrated by a terrorist organisation." July 23,
2015Jihadists inside Syria open fire on a Turkish army border post in the Kilis
region, killing a non-commissioned officer and wounding two soldiers. In
Diyarbakir, a majority Kurdish city in south-eastern Turkey, gunmen kill a
Turkish policeman and seriously wound another. July 24, 2015Turkish F-16 jets
hit Isil targets just inside Syria for the first time, killing nine Isil
militants. Late in the day, airstrikes also target PKK militants in northern
Iraq. July 25, 2015Turkish air strikes intensify against Isil jihadists in Syria
and PKK militants in Iraq. July 26, 2015Ankara launches F-16 attacks for the
third day, striking Kurdish command posts in northern Iraq. Turkish protesters
battle security forces in Istanbul, a policeman is shot and killed. Turkey asks
for an extraordinary Nato meeting to discuss its cross-border offensive, but has
not asked for help, the group's chief says. July 27, 2015Turkish tanks pound a
Kurdish-held village in northern Syria, wounding at least four fighters and
several villagers, Kurdish groups and a Syrian monitor say, while a Turkish
official maintains the army is not targeting Syrian Kurds.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in Bahrain

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 28 July: The Iranian Foreign Ministry on Tuesday [28 July] condemned a
terrorist blast in Sitra Island, south of the Bahraini capital, Manama.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham called for serious
attention to the fight against terrorism and Takfiri extremism.

"The main challenge in the region is terrorism and extremism and it is necessary
for all regional countries to put the confrontation with this source of threat
top on their security agenda," Afkham noted.

Earlier on Tuesday, the Bahraini Interior Ministry announced that two police
officers have been killed and a number of others wounded in Sitra Island.

Bahraini media reported that the police officers were on board a vehicle, which
was transporting 25 security forces.

Unknown gunmen purportedly opened fire on the vehicle moments after the blast,
which left six people injured, according to the Interior Ministry.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1935 gmt 28 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Jordan condemns terrorist attack in Bahrain

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Jordan has strongly condemned the terrorist attack in the Bahraini village of
Sitra that killed two policemen and injured three others.

State Minister for Media Affairs and the Government's spokesperson Mohammed
Momani voiced Jordan's solidarity with the government and people of Bahrain in
countering violence that targets the security, stability and safety of Bahrain.

He also stressed the kingdom's firm rejection of all forms of terrorist acts
that have become a global challenge.

Momani also offered condolences to the Bahraini government, people and the
families of the victims and wished the injured a speedy recovery.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 0010 gmt 29 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Bahraini police arrest "several suspects" following terror attack

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

[Unattributed report: "Sitra Terror Blast Suspects Identified"]

Public Security Chief Major-General Tariq Al Hassan said that several suspects
in the Sitra terror blast have been arrested after they were identified in the
investigation launched immediately after the heinous bombing.

Al Hassan earlier said that two policemen died on Tuesday morning in Sitra when
a bus carrying policemen at the end of their shift at the Sitra police station
came under attack near Granada Primary Girls' School on Road One by a group of
terrorists who remotely-detonated a bomb planted there.

Six other policemen who sustained serious and medium injuries were taken to
hospital and initial reports indicated they were in stable condition.

Various security and legal measures were taken following the incident, including
a security deployment and the activation of security points to determine the
movement of people in certain areas to ensure the safety of the public and the
forces.

A crime scene team was assigned to the location to examine the evidence and the
Public Prosecution was notified.

"Such terrorist acts will not stop policemen from carrying out their duties and
taking all security and legal procedures against anyone who puts the lives of
citizens and residents at risk or attacks public or private property," Al Hassan
said.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 29 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Syrian premier says "terrorist" attacks on oilfields have negative impact

LENGTH: 90 words


"[Syrian Prime Minister Wa'il] al-Halqi: The repeated attacks on oilfields, and
oil refineries, by terrorists have negatively impacted all aspects of life in
the country," Syrian state TV said in screen caption at 1000 gmt as the premier
was giving a "live" speech from the parliament in Damascus on 29 July.

Another caption read: "Al-Halqi: The government is working very hard to provide
suitable amounts of crude oil [to fuel] power plants and fulfil citizens'
needs."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1000 gmt 29 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

"Terrorist" attack damages Iraq-Turkey oil pipeline-Turkish minister

LENGTH: 180 words


A "terrorist" attack on the Iraq-Turkey oil pipeline has halted oil exports from
Kirkuk oilfields to the port of Cayhan, the pro-Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP)
Rudaw news portal reported on 29 July.

"The pipeline has been damaged and the flow is halted due to sabotage by
terrorists," the website quoted Turkish Energy Minister Taner Yildiz as saying
in a statement issued on the same day.

The attack on the pipeline reportedly took place in the Turkey's Kurdish Sirnak
area and nobody had claimed responsibility, including the rebel Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK).

The report said that on the Iraqi side of the border the Kirkuk -Ceyhan pipeline
is under the control of Kurdish peshmerga forces of the Kurdistan Regional
Government (KRG), and that the pipeline exports 600,000 barrels of oil per day
to Turkey.

The report added that the attack came following a "similar" attack on the
Turkey-Iran gas pipeline in Turkey's Kurdish Agri area on 28 July.

Iraq Kurdish officials have not commented on the incident as of yet.

Source: Rudaw website, Arbil, in Sorani Kurdish 29 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Sitra Terrorist Attack Kills Two Policemen

LENGTH: 80  words



HIGHLIGHT: Two police officers have been killed and eight others injured after
they were targeted in what has been labelled a 'terrorist attack' in Sitra, a
village on an island south of the Bahraini capital city of Manama.


News: Two police officers have been killed and eight others injured after they
were targeted in what has been labelled a 'terrorist attack' in Sitra, a village
on an island south of the Bahraini capital city of Manama, according to a
statement tweeted by the interior ministry on July 28. Authorities have not
specified the group responsible for the attack. The attack comes a few days
after the country announced it had thwarted an attempt to smuggle weapons from
Iran (Al Jazeera).

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Tunisia terrorist attack - applying for compensation

LENGTH: 126 words


Applications can be made to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA)
under the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme 2012 by those
victims injured, or the families of those killed, in the attack.



If you have been directly affected by this incident you can find out more about
the Scheme and how to apply on GOV.UK. Alternatively, you can call the CICA
helpline on 0300 003 3601.

You do not need a paid representative, such as a solicitor or claims management
company, to apply for compensation. Free independent advice may be available
from Victim Support or other charitable organisations.You can find out more
about getting help with your application in our guide to applying on GOV.UK.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 29, 2015 Wednesday 1:37 PM GMT

What does Turkey's involvement in air strikes mean for Kurds, Isil, Syria and
Nato?;
After the terrorist attack in Turkey last week, Ankara has launched air strikes
and allowed the US to use its airbase in Incirlik. King's College London experts
and Richard Spencer explain what this change in policy means

BYLINE: By King's College London and Richard Spencer, Middle East Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1611 words


In the space of a few days after a terror attack in the Turkish town of Suruc
which killed 32 people, Ankara launched air strikes against Kurdish guerilla
group, the PKK, in northern Iraq as well as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(Isil) positions in Syria.

Prior to this, Turkey had finally agreed to America's long request for access to
its Incirlik air base in the country to launch jets and drones against Isil.
Ankara's change of heart on how it dealt with Isil and attacking PKK means that
the crisis in Syria has changed significantly.

What that means next for the different groups involved or concern about the
Syrian civil war is what the Telegraph and King's College London academics
explain.

What do Turkish air strikes mean for Isil?

Jill Russell, department of war studies:

War would not have endured in human history if managing its politics were easy.
Nowhere is this difficulty more relevant and trying than in the diplomacy among
allies. Turkey's move to a more integrated position within the air campaign
against Isil is complex and contradictory, creating problems as well as
benefits. This must be accepted given its contested position in these events,
geographically, culturally, politically, and strategically.

Turkey's active presence in the constellation of global and local forces arrayed
against the renegade 'Caliphate' tightens the noose around their strategic neck.
Despite dire predictions this time last year when Isil unleashed their campaign
in Iraq last summer, their imminent victory across the Iraq and Syria was
oversold. Instead, brick by brick the necessary political and strategic
opposition them has been built, and the addition of Turkey has every potential
to strengthen the effort.

Isil's defeat is probable, but it will not lack for challenges. The management
of the relationships within the coalition will not avoid disagreements and
discord. At times the parties may even seem to work at cross purposes to each
other as well as the common goal without necessarily weakening the group's
resolve. As Turkey signals its committed stand against Isil, the rewards from
which loom above even the fraught politics, the group's demise is brought into
sharper focus.

· Turkey is paying a high price for its double standards over Islamic State

Kurds?

Francesco F. Milan, teaching fellow, department of defence studies:

An increase in the number, reach, and tempo of air strikes against Isil will
undoubtedly benefit Syrian Kurds, which effectively represent the 'boots on the
ground' component in the fight against the extremist group.

Through their guerrilla units (known by the acronym YPG) and their parent
political party (PYD), Syrian Kurds have managed to establish themselves as one
of the principal actors in Syria's civil war, and even more so in the conflict
with Isil.

While the United States have developed a working relation with both the YPG and
the PYD, Turkey has not. Wary of the possibility of a politically autonomous
Kurdish presence along its border, Ankara's government has been adamant in
pointing out how the two formations should be considered PKK offshoots, and, as
such, treated as threats to Turkey's own national security. In fact, as soon as
Turkish air strikes started, YPG units have claimed to have been targeted along
with Isil militias; the Turkish government, however, has claimed that YPG units
currently remain 'outside the scope of the current military effort'.

Perhaps more importantly, Turkey's air strikes already had fundamental domestic
repercussions. As previously mentioned, the combination of attacks against
Turkish security forces carried out by the PKK and the consequent air strikes
that hit the organisation's safe haven on the Qandil mountains have effectively
compromised any remaining hope for a rapprochement between the current
government and the Kurdish minority.

· Who are the Kurds? A user's guide to Kurdish politics

After years of negotiations with the PKK, the two sides had eventually agreed on
a ceasefire in 2013. Despite the lack of progress in the negotiations, the
ceasefire held until last week. Now that clashes have restarted, the Kurdish
question is likely to be raised once more in terms of security, overshadowing
the electoral success that the Peoples' Democratic Party, the first pro-Kurdish
party to overcome the national 10 per cent electoral threshold, obtained in the
general elections held last month.

Interactive: SyriaTurkey

Syria?

Richard Spencer, Middle East Editor:

Turkey's air strikes against Isil and the Kurds raise the possibility of
Ankara's direct involvement in the Syrian war for the first time.Turkish
president Recep Tayyip Erdogan has made overthrowing the regime of president
Bashar al-Assad a priority, but has refused to intervene in the war directly
without American backing, which has not been forthcoming. Instead, Turkey has
backed a number of rebel groups, allowing them to be supplies through Turkish
territory.

However, by guaranteeing a "safe zone"  to be overseen by its favoured rebel
groups, Turkey has put its reputation on the line. If this zone is successfully
formed thanks to air attacks by its own fighter jets and those of the United
States, it will have to be protected - including, if necessary, from the Assad
regime's jets and barrel bombs.

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish prime minister, acknowledged this in an interview
with Hurriyet newspaper, saying: "An important point was the air cover for the
Free Syrian Army [FSA] and other moderate elements fighting against Isil. "If we
are not going to send land units to the ground, and we will not, then those
forces acting as ground forces cooperating with us should be protected."

Turkey's main concern is to prevent a unitary Syrian autonomous enclave emerging
stretching from Afrin in the west to the Iraqi border in the east, cutting it
off from the Syrian interior.

That concern will only have been exacerbated by Mr Assad's tacit admission in a
speech on Sunday that Syria was effectively divided into enclaves. As Mr Assad
defends his core area while giving up on the north, Turkey will have to
intervene to ensure its interests are met - otherwise other players, including
the Kurds and Isil, will be allowed a free hand.

Nato?

Francesco F. Milan:

Turkey's decision to grant use of the Incirlik airbase for United States-led air
strikes against Isil militias means air operations into Syria and Iraq will now
benefit from Incirlik's proximity to Syria, as it sits less than 124 miles away
from the Turkish-Syrian border. Besides allowing for more agile and far-reaching
air operations in Syria and Iraq, the decision also ends a diplomatic tug-of-war
that lasted for over a year: since the beginning of the US-led campaign, in June
2014, Turkey made access to the airbase conditional upon Nato's commitment to
the establishment of a no-fly zone over parts of Syria, in order to hinder
military efforts carried out by Mr Assad's regime.

The recent agreement does not seem to include a plan for the creation of a
full-fledged no-fly zone, but there has been mention of a possible plan for the
creation of a safe haven within Syria, to be located along parts of the
Turkish-Syrian border currently controlled by Isil militias. Still, it seems
this idea might be a 'work in progress' at best, as Mr Davutoglu recently
confirmed Turkey is not planning to commit ground troops for deployment in
Syria, and other Nato members do not seem willing to get involved .

More importantly, it seems the Turkish government might have more to its
strategy than currently meets the eye. Turkish air strikes against Isil have
immediately been followed by a series of retaliatory operations against PKK
militias located on the Qandil mountains of Northern Iraq, after a car bomb
killed two Turkish soldiers on Sunday. The events effectively ended a two
year-long ceasefire between the two sides; as violence further escalated, Turkey
called for a Nato meeting on the basis of the Treaty's Article 4, which can be
invoked when a member state believes its territorial integrity or security might
be threatened.

Syrian/Turkish relations: A timeline Turkey is being dragged further into the
four-year conflict in neighbouring Syria following a deadly suicide attack,
blamed on Isil, that killed 32 activists near the border. September 13, 2011"The
Syrian people do not believe al-Assad, I do not either," says Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, then premier, a few months after calling the Syrian leader his
"friend". Erdogan warns of civil war in Syria. "I fear that matters will end
with a civil war breaking out between the Alawites and the Sunnis," he says in
reference to Assad's Shia Alawite sect, and the majority Sunni Muslims. October
2, 2011Following a series of meetings in several Turkish cities, Syrian
opposition leaders announce the creation of the Syrian National Council (SNC),
which groups political factions opposed to the Assad regime. November 15,
2011Turkey passes its first sanctions against Syria, and halts joint oil
exploration with the country. June 22, 2012A Turkish plane that Ankara says was
on a training mission in international airspace is shot down by Syrian forces.
May 11, 2013Twin attacks kill 52 people in Reyhanli, a large Turkish town near
the border with Syria. September 16, 2014Isil militants attack the Syrian border
town of Kobane, and seize parts of it. Kobane becomes the scene of fierce
battles. May 16, 2015Turkey says it has shot down a Syrian helicopter that
violated its airspace.July 20, 2015At least 32 people die when a suspected Isil
suicide bomber attacks a gathering of activists in the town of Suruc, near the
Syrian/Turkish border.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday

Begging in Chadian capital's streets banned to reduce terror attacks

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 30 July

[Presenter] After multiple suicide attacks took place in N'Djamena, Chad,
security measures have been strengthened. The Mayor's office in the capital has
banned begging in the capital city. Madjiasra Nako reports.

[Nako] N'Djamena's Mayor Ali Haroun met with bar owners, associations for the
visually and physically impaired to tell them that from now, all bars will close
at 9 p.m. during weekdays and at midnight during weekends and on national
holidays.

In addition, he said all acts of begging were officially prohibited in the
capital. Parents of visually and physically impaired children, who are the main
people concerned in this have been told to restrain their children in their
homes.

These measures, which intend to reduce attacks by the Islamic State in West
Africa, formerly Boko Haram in the capital city, have been greatly appreciated
in the streets of the capital.

[Unidentified Citizen] Frankly speaking, we agree with what the mayor has said.

[Second Unidentified Citizen] I believe this can be a unifying measure. For the
beggars, I am of a different opinion. Nevertheless, if it is for our security,
we can accept that this situation be momentarily applied.

I agree but not all beggars because there are individuals who do not have money
and they can only live through begging. If we completely interfere, that can
have social consequences.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 30 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 11:22 AM GMT

Thomas Cook expects £39m hit after Tunisia terror attack and Greece debt crisis

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 563 words


Travel operator Thomas Cook today warned of a £39 million earnings hit from the
combined impact of the terrorist atrocity in Tunisia, the Greek debt crisis and
the weakening of the euro.

The attack, which last month claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30
UK nationals is expected to have a £20 million impact on the company's full-year
results with a further effect possible next year.

Thomas Cook said this took into account the impact of cancelled trips,
rearranging the summer flying programme to alternative destinations and the cost
of repatriating customers to the UK.

The group sells 600-700,000 holidays to the North African country every year but
has seen this wiped out as the Foreign Office and other governments in Europe
officially advised against travelling there.

Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: "Our business has been impacted by
significant external shocks."

Thomas Cook evacuated more than 15,000 guests on around 60 flights in the wake
of the murders in Tunisia but Mr Fankhauser said the country would once again
become a tourist hot-spot.

He said: "Definitely Tunisia going forward is going to be a popular destination
again. It is a fact that terrorist attacks can happen anywhere.

"It happened in London, it happened in Paris, it happened in Madrid and
unfortunately it happened in Tunisia. Tunisia can recover and Tunisia is a
holiday destination with a great value for money product."

Mr Fankhauser said he had travelled to visit the Tunisian prime minister to seek
reassurance on how the country can make sure tourists are kept safe and would be
returning there shortly.

The group said there could be "continued adverse impact" on the following year
should the Foreign Office continue to advise against travel and demand fail to
return to former levels as tourists shun the country.

The Greece crisis will have a £5 million impact in the current year as the firm
had to ramp up reductions on late bookings amid fears of problems the debt-laden
country could face as it came to the brink of collapse before reaching agreement
with creditors.

Meanwhile the strength of the pound against the euro and the Swedish krona was
expected to have a £39 million impact on full-year results, up from the £25
million previously expected.

It came as Thomas Cook reported an improved performance in the three months to
the end of June. Pre-tax losses nearly halved from £81 million to £44 million.

The group saw an operating profit, stripping out finance charges, of £3 million,
up from a £50 million loss at the same time last year.

Mr Fankhauser said it was the first time it had been able to announce a positive
third quarter operating result in six years.

Revenues were flat, however, edging up by just 0.2% to £1.95 billion amid weaker
demand, particularly in April. The company had previously warned of the
weakness.

The summer season for this year was 78% sold for the group as a whole and 84% in
the UK - the latter 1% lower than last year, with average selling prices also 1%
lower as the group expands its "seats only" business.

Analysts had been expecting underlying earnings for the year at £340 million.
Experts at Jefferies said this was likely to come down by 10% in the wake of
today's figures.

"Although these events are largely outside the company's control they will,
nevertheless, weigh on the shares in the short term," they said. Shares fell 1%.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday

Terrorist Attack Destroys Chinese Embassy

LENGTH: 82  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Chinese embassy in the Somali capital Mogadishu was damaged in a
suicide bomb attack on July 26, when an attacker rammed a car rigged with
explosives into the Jazeera Palace Hotel, which houses the embassies of Qatar
and the UAE besides China.


News: The Chinese embassy in the Somali capital Mogadishu was damaged in a
suicide bomb attack on July 26, when an attacker rammed a car rigged with
explosives into the Jazeera Palace Hotel, which houses the embassies of Qatar
and the UAE besides China. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang stated
that one member of the embassy's security staff 'died in the bombing, while
three others were injured. The militant group al-Shabaab has claimed
responsibility for the attack (the Diplomat).

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday

Somalia's terror attack: Hope among debris

BYLINE: HOU LIQIANG in Mogadishu, Somali

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 582 words


After waiting for about one day, we finally got permission to visit the Jazeera
Palace Hotel, which an attacker drove a car rigged with bombs into and set off
an explosion, killing at least 15, including a member of Chinese embassy's
security staff, and injuring several dozen.

As expected, it's still in chaos, with debris everywhere. Almost the whole wall
of one side of the hotel has caved in, leaving only the pillars standing with
steel bars, wires and plate metals exposed.Some ragsare hung on whatever remains
of the wall, and they sway in the wind. The blast was so powerful that the
windows on the top floor on the other side of the hotel broke, let alone the
windows near the impact.

But it's not just this property that was affected by the explosion. Opposite the
hotel, scattered among debris of concrete and metal objects, pieces of iron
sheets lying on the ground as if hand-rubbed paper thrown there. There were even
two wheel hubs on the ground, which many people said were left there from the
exploded vehicle used by the attacker. A rooftop made of iron sheets, which is
about 100 meters away, looks as if it had been trampled by a group of overweight
people.

Abdimunim Moalim, operation manager of Jazeera Palace Hotel, told me that it was
the village near the hotel "where the normal people were living" that sustained
the most damage.

This doesn't mean that it will be a horrible and quiet place. It seems like
there is a show just on the road beside the hotel, with many armed men walking
past in various uniforms or civilian clothes in groups. Some were passing by in
pickups, waving or giving a thumb-up gesture to me. There were also some
standing or sitting there with cool sunglasses. Accompanying the show, however,
is not music but the relentless noise of operating machines. You just have to
shout when you want to talk to people, even if they are right next to you.

Behind a temporary wall, which is as tall as the first floor of the hotel,
workers have been busy working, removing debris in the hotel, digging, moving
bags of cement and steel bars. They have changed the site of the terrorist
attack into a dynamic and busy construction site.

"This explosion has happened. It's supposed to damage our business. But I tell
you we will come up much stronger than ever before and return operations to
normal as soon as possible," said Moalim. One of the journalists in our team
told me that Moalim even invited her to stay in the hotel for no charge.

We entered the hotel walking through the place where the wall should be and I
saw dozens of bags of cement piled up there. The canteen on the ground floor,
which was far away from the explosion site and sustained little damage, still
had four or five customers, including two officers, who were probably drinking
something at two tables.

There outside the canteen, I saw Ali Mohamed Ahmed, a student who lives in the
nearby village Kaluunka and was hanging around the hotel then. The 15-year-old
was playing football with 11 of his buddies when the attack happened.

The boy was eager to talk but spoke very broken English. With the noise of the
construction site obscuring what he said, I was only able to hear one sentence
clearly:"When I grow up, I want to protect my country."

What the boy said just makes me feel hopeful for terrorism-stricken country.
Yes, more youth like Ahmed, who see the damage terrorism causes their country,
will grow up and shoulder the responsibility to prevent terrorist attacks from
happening.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 30, 2015 Thursday 8:52 PM GMT

£39m holiday hell: Tunisia terror attack and Greek debt crisis hit Thomas Cook
profits;
THE Foreign Office advised against travelling to Tunisia in the wake of the
beach terror attack and the travel firm had to ramp up reductions on trips to
Greece as the country headed to the brink of collapse.

BYLINE: By John-Paul Ford Rojas

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 249 words


TRAVEL giants Thomas Cook look set to take a £39million hit from the terrorist
atrocity in Tunisia, the Greek debt crisis and the weak euro.

The Tunisia attack last month, which killed 38 people including 30 British
tourists, is expected to have a £20million impact on the company's full-year
results.

Thomas Cook said this took into account the impact of cancelled trips,
rearranging the summer flying programme to alternative destinations and the cost
of repatriating customers to the UK.

The group sell up to 700,000 holidays to Tunisia every year but the Foreign
Office have advised against travelling there.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

The Greek crisis will also have a £5million impact in the current year after the
firm had to ramp up reductions on late bookings as the debt-laden country headed
to the brink of collapse.

Meanwhile, the strength of the pound against the euro and the Swedish krona was
expected to have a £39million impact on full-year results - even worse than the
£25million previously feared. It came as Thomas Cook reported an improved
performance in the three months to the end of June.

Pre-tax losses nearly halved from £81million to £44million.

The group saw an operating profit, stripping out finance charges, of £3million -
up from a £50million loss at the same time last year.

Analysts had been expecting underlying earnings for the year at £340million but
they are likely to drop 10 per cent after yesterday's figures. Shares fell one
per cent.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                       July 30, 2015 Thursday 7:45 PM GMT

Hammer thug Brendan Moxon jailed for terror attack on Brighouse pensioner;
Man threatened 70-year-old woman as she returned home

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


A hammer-wielding intruder who terrorised a 70-year-old woman in her Brighouse
home has been jailed for nine years.

When Angela Barwick returned to her detached home in Norwood Green she initially
thought the man she found on her conservatory roof was a window cleaner, but
would-be burglar Brendan Moxon, who was holding a hammer in his hand, scrambled
down and confronted her.

A jury at Bradford Crown Court heard how Wyke man Moxon waved the hammer about
and demanded Mrs Barwick's bag.

After taking her mobile phone from the handbag Moxon told her:"Inside, I want to
go inside, open the door, I want gold."

During the robbery in March Moxon, 39, pulled the house phone out of its socket
and took Mrs Barwick's iPad and £70 in cash after she offered them to him.

Moxon, of Albert Terrace, Wyke, claimed that he had carried out the attempted
burglary that morning with an accomplice and he had left before the other man
committed the robbery.

But this morning the jury found Moxon guilty of the robbery charge and Judge
Jonathan Rose then heard details of his extensive criminal record which included
23 convictions for nearly 50 offences.

Prosecutor Abigail Langford submitted that Mrs Barwick's home had been targeted
and highlighted Moxon's references to wanting gold.

Judge Rose said thankfully Moxon had only threatened Mrs Barwick and had not
used any actual violence on her.

But he said Moxon had targeted the house believing that if he could get in he
would be able to find high value property.

Judge Rose described Mrs Barwick as a very brave lady and he noted that when she
returned home Moxon did not give himself up or run away.

"Instead you saw an opportunity here, and this is a serious aggravating feature
of the case, because you could see she was a lady advanced years and on her own
at the time.

"You thought I'm younger, I'm stronger and I'm armed. I have this hammer and you
terrorised her."

The judge said Moxon terrorised the complainant even when she was offering him
property to make him go away.

Judge Rose said the incident lasted about four minutes, but it must have seemed
like a lifetime to Mrs Barwick.

"This was a cowardly, bullying and a quite vicious attack on a defenceless,
vulnerable victim," the judge told Moxon.

The judge said Moxon's long record saying back to 1992 showed he was committed
to a life of crime and the public was entitled to protection from him.

Moxon was jailed for nine years on the robbery charge with a concurrent term of
three years for the attempted burglary.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 10:52 AM GMT

Thomas Cook profits hit by Tunisia terror attack and Greek debt crisis

BYLINE: Lana Clements

LENGTH: 438 words


THE Tunisia terror attack and the Greek debt crisis have taken a £25million bite
out of Thomas Cook's annual profits, the travel company warned today.

GETTY

Thomas Cook profits have been hit events in Tunisia and Greece

Shares in the tour operator have fallen 13 per cent since June 26, when a gunman
massacred 30 British holidaymakers at the popular Sousse beach resort in an
attack by an ISIS-inspired gunman.

Along with other tour operators, Thomas Cook brought home all their British
customers from the north African country following a warning from the Foreign
Office that another terror attack was "highly likely".

It has cancelled all holidays to Tunisa until October and customers have been
offered refunds or holidays to Spain and Cyprus instead.

At around the same time, bookings to Greece fell after the debt-laden country's
banks closed for a three-week period from the end of June, as the country
teetered on the edge of bankruptcy in a crisis that threatened to descend into a
full-blown humanitarian catastrophe.

Related articles  Thomas Cook's ex-boss charity donation over Corfu deaths
labelled...  Greek Banks reopen but British travellers still urged to take
cash...

As a result of both these events, Thomas Cook said its 2015 earnings will be
hit.

Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: "Since the end of the third quarter, our
business has been impacted by significant external shocks."

"In response to the tragic events in Tunisia, we acted swiftly and decisively,
evacuating more than 15,000 guests on approximately 60 flights and sending
special assistance teams to offer logistical and compassionate support to
customers and staff."

However, despite events, Thomas Cook said that it now expects growth in
full-year earnings on a constant currency basis.

The firm said its operating profit in the three months to the end of June, its
third fiscal quarter, improved to £3 million pounds from a £50million loss in
the same period the year before.

Thomas Cook also said summer 2015 holidays were 78 percent sold, the same as
this time last year, while customer bookings had generally improved in most
markets over the last few weeks.

But the firm noted the foreign exchange translation impact on 2015 profit was
expected to be £39million, up from £25million previously indicated, following
further depreciation of the euro and Swedish krona against sterling.

Related articles Air passenger tax: How to get money back for under 12s on plane
tickets DVLA alter car hire rules following backlash by furious British
holidaymakers Holiday kick-off: How to get the best rates on cash as Brits swap
£10million an HOUR today

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 10:21 PM GMT

Thomas Cook issues profit warning after earnings are hit by terror attack in
Tunisia, Greek debt crisis and weaker euro

BYLINE: LAURA CHESTERS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 364 words


The Tunisian terror attack and concerns about the Greek economic crisis forced
beleagured package holiday firm Thomas Cook to issue a profit warning yesterday.

The events will hit its full year profit by around £25million.

The company has cancelled all trips to the North African country until October
after a gunman killed 38 holidaymakers.

It evacuated more than 15,000 people on 60 flights and sent assistance teams to
support customers and staff. And it managed an 85 per cent rebooking rate for
people to go elsewhere.

The Greek crisis last month led to a fall in bookings, and although demand has
now returned it will cost the business £5million this year.

Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: 'There were no cancellations for Greece
but there was a three-week slowdown.

'Customers were afraid, because of media reports, that there would not be food
in the hotels... our local teams have worked diligently to ensure that the
economic issues do not disrupt our customers' holidays. Demand came back
strongly afterwards.'

The profit warning came as third-quarter results showed a £44million pre-tax
loss for the three months to the end of June, an improvement on an £81million
loss a year earlier.

Fankhauser said operating profit in the quarter of £3million was its first in
six years and it had made 'good progress' from a £50million loss a year before.
Revenue rose £4million, or 0.2 per cent, to £1.95billion.

The strong pound and weak euro hit the firm. Currency movements will wipe £39m
from operating profit but the company said it will meet full-year profit growth
expectations. Analysts at Numis cut the full-year profit forecast by 12 per cent
to £309million.

Some 78 per cent of holidays for summer 2015 have been sold, the same as a year
ago, and bookings continued to improve into the summer.

Fankhauser said the company had learnt from the mistakes it made dealing with
the parents of two children who died from carbon monoxide poisoning at a hotel
in Corfu nine years ago.

He said: 'We have made a lot of progress - we are experienced with handling a
crisis now. We have procedures in place. We make sure we put customers at the
heart of the company.'

Shares fell 0.5p to 125.9p.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 12:05 PM GMT

Terror attack in Tunisia, Greek debt crisis and weaker euro combine to whack
earnings at travel giant Thomas Cook

BYLINE: JONATHON HOPKINS FOR THISISMONEY.CO.UK

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 660 words


Travel operator Thomas Cook today warned of a £39million earnings hit from the
combined impact of the terrorist atrocity in Tunisia, the Greek debt crisis and
the weakening of the euro.

The Tunisia attack, which last month claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers
including 30 UK nationals is expected to have a £20million impact on the
company's full-year results with a further effect possible next year.

Thomas Cook said this took into account the impact of cancelled trips,
rearranging the summer flying programme to alternative destinations and the cost
of repatriating customers to the UK.

The group sells 600-700,000 holidays to the North African country every year but
has seen this wiped out as the Foreign Office and other governments in Europe
officially advised against travelling there.

Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: 'Our business has been impacted by
significant external shocks.'

Thomas Cook evacuated more than 15,000 guests on around 60 flights in the wake
of the murders in Tunisia but Mr Fankhauser said the country would once again
become a tourist hot-spot.

He said: 'Definitely Tunisia going forward is going to be a popular destination
again. It is a fact that terrorist attacks can happen anywhere.

'It happened in London, it happened in Paris, it happened in Madrid and
unfortunately it happened in Tunisia. Tunisia can recover and Tunisia is a
holiday destination with a great value for money product.'

Mr Fankhauser said he had travelled to visit the Tunisian prime minister to seek
reassurance on how the country can make sure tourists are kept safe and would be
returning there shortly.

The group said there could be 'continued adverse impact' on the following year
should the Foreign Office continue to advise against travel and demand fail to
return to former levels as tourists shun the country.

The Greece crisis will have a £5million impact in the current year as the firm
had to ramp up reductions on late bookings amid fears of problems the debt-laden
country could face as it came to the brink of collapse before reaching agreement
with creditors.

Meanwhile the strength of the pound against the euro and the Swedish krona was
expected to have a £39million impact on full-year results, up from the
£25million previously expected.

It came as Thomas Cook reported an improved performance in the three months to
the end of June, with pre-tax losses nearly halved to £44million from
£81million.

The group saw an operating profit, stripping out finance charges, of £3million,
up from a £50million loss at the same time last year.

Mr Fankhauser said it was the first time it had been able to announce a positive
third quarter operating result in six years.

Revenues were flat, however, edging up by just 0.2 per cent to £1.95billion amid
weaker demand, particularly in April. The company had previously warned of the
weakness.

The summer season for this year was 78 per cent sold for the group as a whole
and 84 per cent in the UK - the latter 1 per cent lower than last year, with
average selling prices also 1 per cent lower as the group expands its 'seats
only' business.

Analysts at broker Numis Securities said they were cutting their full year 2015
earnings forecast for Thomas Cook to £309million from £350million, and their
2016 forecast to £349million from £387million.

'We expect consensus forecasts to be cut quite substantially today - possibly by
a double-digit percentage. We are cutting our price target from 145p to 130p and
see no rush to get involved in the shares,' they added, keeping a hold rating on
the stock.

Analysts at Jefferies International said consensus forecasts were likely to come
down by 10 per cent in the wake of the figures.

'Although these events are largely outside the company's control they will,
nevertheless, weigh on the shares in the short term,' they said.

In late morning trade, Thomas Cook shares on the FTSE 250 index were 0.1p lower
at 126.3p, having recovered from an early 3 per cent slide.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 11:53 AM GMT

Accountant behind India's deadliest terror attack which killed 257 in Mumbai in
1993 is hanged after losing last minute mercy plea

BYLINE: HANNAH PARRY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 897 words



     ·    Yakub Memon was hanged in prison today for part in Mumbai bombings
     ·    The 53-year-old was convicted of financing the attack which killed 257
     ·    India's President Pranab Mukerjee rejected last minute plea for mercy


The accountant behind the Mumbai bombings which killed more than 200 people in
1993 has been hanged after losing his last minute mercy plea.

Yakub Memon, who has been in prison in the state of Maharashtra for almost two
decades, was convicted financing India's deadliest terror attack in 2007.

This morning, Memon, the only death row convict for the bombings which claimed
257 lives, was hanged at the prison on his 53rd birthday after his last-minute
mercy plea was rejected by President Pranab Mukerjee.

Just hours before the sentence was due to be carried out, a group of prominent
lawyers had sought to postpone the execution during a special early morning
session at the Supreme Court.

But the final appeal was rejected and Memon was hanged at 6.30am.

'I have exhausted my remedies,' lawyer Anand Grover told reporters in New Delhi
at dawn after the Supreme Court heard Memon's final plea. 'I only hope that
Yakub Memon will have a dignified death.'

'There's no question of victory. I've just done my job,' said attorney general
Mukul Rohtagi.

The March 12, 1993, bombings ripped through the country's financial heart, and
targeted some of the city's key centres - the Bombay Stock Exchange, Air India
offices, a state transport office, three hotels, a gas station and a cinema.

The bombs, packed into cars, scooters, under a manhole cover and in a hotel
room, were detonated over two hours in the afternoon.

The blasts were seen as revenge for the demolition of a medieval mosque in
northern India by Hindu nationalists.

The mosque's demolition sparked religious riots in many parts of the country,
leaving more than 800 people dead, most of them Muslims.

Memon's older brothers Ibrahim 'Tiger' Memon and Dawood Ibrahim - both leading
gangsters the 1990s -are the main suspects in the bombings but both have fled
the country.

Others originally charged in relation to the attack had their sentences reduced
to life imprisonment in 2013.

But Memon was found by the court to be the 'driving spirit' behind the attacks,
and his 2007 death sentence was upheld.

While Tiger Memon has been in hiding since 1993, Yakub Memon decided to return
to India from Pakistan in 1994, protesting his innocence.

The accountant was detained shortly afterwards and convicted of helping raise
funds for the blasts in one of India's lengthiest court trials.

The initial hearings began on June 6, 1995, and ended in January 2003 with the
judgments finally began to come in late 2006.

The accused included gangsters, housewives and a Bollywood movie star and a
total of 100 people have been convicted of involvement in the blasts.

Ten of those were also sentenced to death but had their death sentences commuted
to life in prison.

Memon remains the only person to have been executed in relation to the bombings.

In the days before his sentence was carried out, it emerged that Memon had
helped Indian intelligence establish a link to Pakistan over the bombings.

Scores of police have now been posted at the Memon family home and at the
various places in the city where the bombs had exploded as news of his death
broke.

The decision to carry out the execution has angered humans rights groups who had
called for mercy for the bomber.

Dozens of Indian activists had gathered near the Indian Parliament in New Delhi,
India, ahead of the hanging to light candles and hold banners urging the
president to stop the scheduled death penalty

Around 300 prominent citizens, including at least eight retired judges of the
Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, had also urged Mr Mukerjee to commute
Memon's sentence to life in prison.

'It's extremely sad that India has gone ahead, we had been hoping India will now
call for a moratorium,' said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director for Human
Rights Watch.

'But it's very welcome that now there seems to be a growing debate around this
in India.'

India's legal system allows for executions in what the Supreme Court calls 'the
rarest of the rare cases'. But there are debates on how to define that and the
only executions in recent years have been of convicted terrorists.

The vast majority of the 100-150 death sentences handed down each year are
eventually commuted to life in prison.

Human rights group Amnesty International, have also decried the hanging.

'Serious questions have also been raised regarding Yakub Memon's execution and
whether it is guided by political motivations,' said Divya Iyer, Research
Manager at Amnesty International India after the news his final appeal had been
rejected.

'Lawmakers in India often find it convenient to hold up capital punishment as a
symbol of their resolve to tackle crime, and choose to ignore more difficult and
effective solutions like improving investigations, prosecutions and care for
victims' families.'

For nearly a decade, India had an unofficial moratorium on executions. That
ended in November 2012 with the execution of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone
surviving gunman in the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.

Two months later, Mohammad Afzal Guru, a Kashmiri convicted in a deadly 2001
attack on India's parliament complex, was hanged.

Both executions were done secretly and the bodies were buried inside prison
compounds

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 30, 2015 Thursday 3:00 AM GMT

Benghazi gets the Hollywood treatment: First images from Michael Bay movie of
Libya terror attack that left U.S. ambassador dead - and which Hillary Clinton
is desperate to forget

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words



     ·    Trailer released Tuesday for 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi
     ·    Michael Bay movie depicts 2012 attack that took lives of four
          Americans
     ·    Raid in Libyan city killed ambassador J. Christopher Stevens
     ·    Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been criticized for her
          handling of the attack
     ·    Timing of the movie will draw attention to weak spot during her
          campaign
     ·    Unanswered questions over raid add to impression she is untrustworthy


These are the first images from the Hollywood adaptation of the deadly terror
attack in Benghazi - which will bring fresh attention to a scandal Hillary
Clinton is desperate to leave behind.

Explosions, terse mercenaries and an armed mob bent on terror fill the teaser
clip of 13 Hours: The Secret Soldier of Benghazi - the big screen adaptation of
the 2012 raid on a U.S. diplomatic compound that left an ambassador dead.

The dramatic images depict the night of the raid, which left four Americans dead
and spawned years of political recriminations over the lack of help provided by
officials back in Washington.

Scroll down for video

Hillary Clinton, then Secretary of State, was directly in the firing line, and
has been grilled for years over her handling of the attack - at a great cost to
her reputation.

Although the film, directed by Michael Bay, is not thought to feature Clinton,
or cover the politics of the attack, the major picture will nonetheless focus
attention on one of the presidential hopeful's lowest ebbs.

Bay's film, which follows blockbuster efforts including the Transformer series,
as well as historical films like Pearl Harbor, is based on a book by the same
name which focuses on the story of six CIA contractors who were present on the
night.

The two-and-a-half minute trailer for the film, due out in January 2016, shows
the tense hours before violence broke out in the city, still rocked by the
Libyan civil war.

Gun-wielding crowds are shown storming the diplomatic compound, launching
explosives and setting fire to the elegant surroundings while the victims inside
call for back-up.

At first the six members of Annex Security Team are held back from intervening,
but later attempt to save ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, who nonetheless
perished in the attack.

Stevens was killed in the raid, as well as a U.S. Foreign Service employee and
two CIA workers. Four more Americans were injured.

Clinton has tried repeatedly to shift attention away from Benghazi, but has
found it difficult to escape the scandal - particularly thanks to the efforts of
a Congressional committee dedicated to investigating the attack.

Revelations about Clinton's use of her personal email account, hosted on private
servers, during the attack have also stoked suspicions that there are records
from the attack which have been hidden from the public forever.

The events speak to one of Clinton's biggest weaknesses - the public perception
that she is harboring secrets from her decades in the public eye, and is not to
be trusted.

A CNN/ORC poll from last month showed that 57 per cent of voters surveyed said
they did not find Clinton trustworthy or honest.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 10:45 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack COULD have been prevented claims BBC Panorama documentary
Terror on the Beach;
Terror on the Beach: Panorama also reveals certain survivors would not have gone
to the country had they known about previous attacks in Sousse

BYLINE: By Danny Walker

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 617 words


A BBC documentary has relived the shocking events of the Sousse atrocity.

Panorama's Terror on the Beach special recounted the harrowing events from
eyewitnesses, locals, officials and British survivors of the Tunisia hotel
attacks.

Presented by British journalist and film-maker Jane Corbin it not only told the
shocking events that ended with 38 tourists, 30 of them UK citizens, gunned
down, it was claimed that the attacks could have been prevented.

Corbin also investigated whether several warnings were ignored that could have
saved lives.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

Corbin told survivors that there was an attack a month before, which ended in a
terrorist blowing himself up in Sousse.

This was news to some.

Both Angela Evans, from King's Lynn, Norfolk and Tony Callaghan, also from
Norfolk, revealed they would not have been in Tunisia had they known.

"I didn't know about that," said Angela. "I didn't know that. I don't think I
would have gone. I'm not brave."

"We certainly wouldn't have gone if we had any doubts," said Tony, alongside his
wife Christine, who seriously injured her leg when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
attacked.

Angela Evans saw the feet of killer Seifeddine Rezgui and prepared herself to be
killed.

She steeled herself for the final gunshot but instead heard a soft click as the
empty casing fell to the ground.

The woman from Kings Lynn said: "There was no more screaming. [Rezgui] was at
the side of me. I was lying down and I could see his feet. At that time you just
know you're going to die in a minute.

"Then there was a click and something dropped because the sand came up over me.
There was another, louder click, almost a crunch. I suppose he'd run out of
ammunition, but he'd refilled.

"He was above. He was just there. I just remember thinking: "Oh, God." Then
there was a bang, a big bang. I don't know what it was, but it was enough for
him to turn. I knew he'd turned because of all the sand that came up on me."

First footage of how tourists and locals in Sousse hide in a nearby shop from
the Tunisia attack gunman

The attacks ended at 12:16pm after 38 minutes of terror.

Aimen Dar Hassine, a Tunisian, who was on holiday in the area recorded the whole
thing.

"For the first two minutes he was shooting and killing people. People were
running. My friend took a little girl and helped her to escape."

"It quickly became obvious to the Tunisians on the beach that 23-year-old Rezgui
was only trying to shoot Westerners. Some tried to reason with him."

Mehdi Jamelt, also organising water-sports, added: "When I saw the tourist
policeman, I said to him: "Why aren't you shooting the terrorist?"

He said to me: "I don't have a bulletproof vest."

It was also revealed that a tweet from IS warned tourists.

The tweet read: "To the Christians planning their summer vacations in Tunisia,
we can't accept you in our land while your jets keep killing our Muslim Brothers
in Iraq & [Syria].

Ominous Tunisia tweet

The local student union also warned officials.

Saidi Fedi said: "We submitted reports on how many of the students have gone off
to Iraq and Syria."

The documentary was harrowing and shocked viewers on Twitter.

One viewer said: "The Tunisia documentary was tough to watch, such a sad story.
Respect to all the locals that risked their lives to help though #Panorama"

Another said: "#Panorama really feel sorry for the people of Tunisia but police
refusing to answer why it took so long to respond? #shotdeadin5inuk

Another tweeted: "Excellent #Panorama on Tunisia. For a story that has already
been well-covered the film was full of startling revelations."

Read a more in-depth reaction below.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

Terror on the Beach: Panorama Storify

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 30, 2015 Thursday 11:42 AM GMT

Thomas Cook takes £25m hit from Tunisia and Greece crises;
The tour operator said that its 2016 results may also be affected by the
terrorist attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Ben Martin

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 580 words


The chief executive of Thomas Cook has insisted the tour operator's business in
Tunisia will recover after the company revealed that the terrorism attack in the
North African country and the economic crisis in Greece will cost it £25m this
year.

The beleaguered FTSE 250 firm said the majority of the hit - some £20m - was
because of Tunisia, where 38 tourists, 30 of them British, were shot dead at a
beach resort last month, prompting the UK government to advise against all but
essential travel to the country until at least the end of October.

Thomas Cook typically carries about 700,000 tourists a year to the country,
accounting for 3pc of its overall passenger volumes, and was forced to fly more
than 15,000 customers home. While conceding that the crisis could also hit its
numbers for 2016, chief executive Peter Fankhauser said he was confident that
travellers will eventually return to the country.

"Tunisia, going forward, is going to be a popular holiday destination again," he
said, adding that it was "just a matter of time" for volumes to fully recover.
Mr Fankhauser revealed that he met with the Tunisian prime minister on Monday
and that "he assured me he is doing everything in his power to take care of our
guests".

The terrorist attack had also affected trips to Egypt, the Thomas Cook boss
added, where growth was slower than it might have been during the summer. The
impact of Tunisia on 2016 profits will be dictated by when the British
government changes its travel advice, as well as the company's success in
finding alternative destinations for its customers in countries such as Spain
and Bulgaria, Mr Fankhauser said.

Travellers' concerns about Greece, which accounted for £5m of the hit to its
2015 numbers, are not expected to persist into next year, however.

Customers were worried that the country's buckling financial system had affected
the ability of Greek hotels to buy food and other supplies, the Thomas Cook boss
said. As a result, there was a three-week period during the height of the crisis
when customers had stopped booking trips to the company in the late market.

Both Greece and Tunisia hit the tour operator during the peak summer period, and
piled pressure on the company at a time when it was already under fire. In May,
an inquest into the deaths of two British children on a Thomas Cook holiday nine
years ago found the firm had breached its duty of care.

The business was caught in a violent public backlashover its treatment of the
bereaved parents and faced calls for a boycott. Mr Frankhauser said on Thursday
that despite the public anger, its bookings had been unaffected by the boycott
threat.

Thomas Cook has, however, been hurt by the currency markets, particularly the
weakness of the euro and the Swedish krona against the pound. In May the company
had told investors to brace for a £25m hit, but that estimated has now been
increased to £39m.

Mr Fankhauser is tasked with completing the turnaround started by his
predecessor Harriet Green, which is starting bear fruit. Thomas Cook said on
Thursday that it achieved a £3m operating profit during its third-quarter, the
first time in six years that it has recorded a "positive" performance during the
three-month period.

It said in May that it would restart dividends in 2016, after scrapping
shareholder payouts four years ago when the company came close to collapse. Mr
Fankhauser said on Thursday that events in Tunisia and Greece had not affected
its dividend plans.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 30, 2015 Thursday 9:08 AM GMT

Thomas Cook takes £25m hit from Tunisia and Greece crises;
The tour operator said that its 2016 results may also be affected by the
terrorist attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Ben Martin

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 259 words


The terrorist attack in Tunisia and economic meltdown in Greece have cost Thomas
Cook about £25m this year .

The beleaguered tour operator warned investors that the twin crises, which came
during the peak summer period, had hurt its bookings for the three months to the
end of September .

The majority of the hit - some £20m - was because of Tunisia, where 38 tourists,
the majority of them British, were shot dead, prompting the UK government to
advise against all but essential travel to the country until at least the end of
October.

Thomas Cook, which normally carries between 600,000 and 700,000 holidaymakers to
the North African country each year, was forced to fly more than 15,000
customers home after the attack. While conceding that the crisis could also hit
its numbers for 2016 , chief executive Peter Fankhauser said he was confident
that travellers will eventually return to the country.

"Tunisia is going to be a popular holiday destination again," he said, adding
that "it is a fact that terrorist attacks can happen anywhere."

Worries about the collapse of the banking system in Greece also deterred
tourists from making late bookings to the country, but did not prompt any
cancellations, Mr Fankhauser said.

The company has been further hurt by currency markets, particularly the weakness
of the euro and the Swedish krona against the pound.

While the company had warned investors in May to expect a £25m hit from foreign
exchange, it has increased the estimate and now told shareholders to brace for a
£39m impact on its full-year results.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 31, 2015 Friday

Russia's Dagestan reports decline in attacks on police, terrorist crime

LENGTH: 277 words


The republic of Dagestan in Russia's volatile North Caucasus has reported a
decline in attacks on police officers and terrorist and extremist crime in
general, state-run RIA Dagestan news agency reported on 30 July.

It said this information was made public at a meeting that the board of the
Dagestan Investigations Directorate (DID) of the Russian Investigations
Committee had held to discuss work done in the first six months of 2015.

"In comparison with the same period last year, the number of extremist crimes
committed in the republic fell by almost a third. [During the first six months
of the year] it was revealed that there was a four-fold increase in assistance
given to terrorist activity.

"The number of attempts on the life of law enforcers almost halved. Regarding
all crimes in this category, specific persons who were involved in them were
identified and put on a federal wanted list, arrested or killed when they
offered armed resistance while being detained..." the report said, presumably
quoting the chief of the DID, Eduard Kaburneyev.

The report went on to say: "It was highlighted that not only owing to continuous
cooperation between law enforcement services and agencies but also with
considerable support from authorities and citizens and the leadership of the
republic, it was possible to prevent terrorist attacks and killings of judges,
prosecutors, investigators and journalists, and also to decrease the number of
terrorist crimes in Dagestan in the past 18 months ["18 months" as given]. The
overall detection of serious crimes and felonies was effectively 99 per cent."

Source: RIA Dagestan, Makhachkala, in Russian 1356 gmt 30 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              July 31, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£39m holiday hell;
Terror attack and Greek debt crisis hit Thomas Cook profits

BYLINE: JOHN-PAUL FORD ROJAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 240 words


TRAVEL giants Thomas Cook look set to take a £39million hit from the terrorist
atrocity in Tunisia, the Greek debt crisis and the weak euro.

The Tunisia attack last month, which killed 38 people including 30 British
tourists, is expected to have a £20million impact on the company's full-year
results.

Thomas Cook said this took into account the impact of cancelled trips,
rearranging the summer flying programme to alternative destinations and the cost
of repatriating customers to the UK.

The group sell up to 700,000 holidays to Tunisia every year but the Foreign
Office have advised against travelling there.

The Greek crisis will also have a £5million impact in the current year after the
firm had to ramp up reductions on late bookings as the debt-laden country headed
to the brink of collapse.

Meanwhile, the strength of the pound against the euro and the Swedish krona was
expected to have a £39million impact on fullyear results - even worse than the
£25million previously feared. It came as Thomas Cook reported an improved
performance in the three months to the end of June.

Pre-tax losses nearly halved from £81million to £44million.

The group saw an operating profit, stripping out finance charges, of £3million -
up from a £50million loss at the same time last year.

Analysts had been expecting underlying earnings for the year at £340million but
they are likely to drop 10 per cent after yesterday's figures. Shares fell one
per cent.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIL Tunisia gunman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 31, 2015 Friday 10:49 AM GMT

Palestinian toddler burned to death in 'horrific terror attack' by 'Jewish
extremists'

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 748 words


A PALESTINIAN toddler has been burned to death by suspected Jewish settlers in a
fire bomb attack that has horrified the war-torn West Bank.

EPA

A man checks damage to his relatives' home after the fire bomb attack

The blaze, which also left the dead child's four-year-old brother and parents
severely injured, has been described by the Israeli prime minister as a "terror
attack".

Police said the culprits threw molotov cocktails at houses in the village of
Duma before scrawling graffiti such as "Long live the Messiah", "revenge" and
"price tag", which is code for the repeated fire bomb attacks by militant Jews
on Palestinians in the region.

The child has been identified as 18-month-old Ali Dawabsheh by Palestinian
official Gassan Daghlas.

He said Jewish settlers broke a window of the family home before throwing the
explosives inside "causing a quick and huge fire".

Ibrahim Dawabsheh, a Duma resident, said he heard people shouting for help from
the house and rushed to it.

Related articles  Holocaust survivor says he was hounded from festival by
Left-wing...  Six people stabbed at Gay Pride in Jerusalem by 'attacker who...

He added: "I saw two masked men outside.

"We found the parents outside with burns, they said there was another son in the
house, we brought him out and then they said there was another boy inside, but
we couldn't reach the bedroom because of the fire.

"He was left inside until rescue forces came."

The Israeli military, which in response sent troops to the West Bank fearing
unrest, confirmed three people were critically wounded and one was mildly
injured. The seriously injured were taken to Israeli hospitals for treatment.

EPA

Israeli soldiers check the damage to the Palestinian fire damaged house in the
West Bank village

Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the attacks today.

He said: "I am shocked over this reprehensible and horrific act. This is an act
of terrorism in every respect. The State of Israel takes a strong line against
terrorism regardless of who the perpetrators are."

Israeli military spokesman Lt. Col. Peter Lerner called the incident "nothing
short of a barbaric act of terrorism", while the country's defence minister
Moshe Yaalon said he would not allow "Jewish terrorists" to carry out such acts.

He added: "We will fight against them firmly and with all means and tools at our
disposal."

EPA

A Palestinian man stands in front a fire damaged house with graffiti reading
'revenge' in Hebrew

Jewish extremists have attacked Palestinian property, as well as mosques,
churches and even Israeli military bases in opposition to what they see as the
Israel government's favourable policies toward the Palestinians, although it is
rare for anyone to be killed.

Critics say police have been slow to apprehend the assailants and Palestinians
say the military has failed to protect them in the West Bank.

Mr Daghlas, the Palestinian official, said: "Setters in the Nablus area are very
aggressive. They never stop attacking Palestinians in their villages and the
Israeli government needs to put an end to these aggressions."

Related articles  Israel election: Benjamin Netanyahu claims resounding
victory...  Foreign aid scandal: UK money is 'STILL going to convicted...

But there have also been a number of horrific attacks by Palestinians on Jewish
in the region in recent months.

They include a Palestinian ramming a car into five people at a tram stop in
Jerusalem in March.

Police treated that attack as a terrorist incident.

In January, at least seven people were wounded after a Palestinian man stabbed
them onboard a busy commuter bus in Tel Aviv.

The terrorist was shot in the leg by police before being arrested.

Israeli police said they would restrict entrance to Friday prayers at a
Jerusalem mosque to male worshippers over the age of 50. They said the decision
was not necessarily related to yesterday's West Bank incident and comes as
police received information Palestinian youths at the mosque planned to cause
disturbances.

The attack in the West Bank comes just a day after an orthodox-Jewish man was
said to have stabbed six people at a Gay Pride march in Jeusalem.

Mr Netanyahu condemned the assault as a "despicable hate crime".

Related articles United by grief: Arabs and Jewish citizens condemn cruel Israel
killings Israel 'foils terror plot to kill minister' Tel Aviv attack:
Palestinian shot after stabbing seven passengers on commuter bus Council accused
of anti-Semitism after voting to boycott goods from West Bank

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                              July 31, 2015 Friday

FCO Minister comments on Israeli settler terror attack in West Bank

LENGTH: 110 words


Minister for the Middle East Tobias Ellwood condemns West Bank settler terror
attack, which led to the death of a Palestinian infant, and left his parents and
four-year-old brother seriously injured.



The UK strongly condemns today's horrific attack by Israeli settlers that
resulted in the death of a Palestinian child. This was a brutal act of
terrorism, as recognised by Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. We call on the
Israeli authorities to ensure that those responsible for this crime are brought
swiftly to justice. We also call on political and community leaders on all sides
to do their utmost to promote calm.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 31, 2015 Friday

Terrorist attack hits Thomas Cook revenues

BYLINE: John-Paul Ford Rojas

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 243 words


TRAVEL operator Thomas Cook has warned of a £39 million earnings hit from the
combined impact of the terrorist atrocity in Tunisia, the Greek debt crisis and
the weakening of the euro.

The attack, which last month claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30
UK nationals, is expected to have a £20m impact on the company's full-year
results with a further effect possible next year.

Thomas Cook said this took into account the impact of cancelled trips, re-
arranging the summer flying programme to alternative destinations and the cost
of repatriating customers to the UK.

The group sells up to 700,000 holidays to the North African country every year
but has seen this wiped out as the Foreign Office and other governments in
Europe officially advised against travelling there.

Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: "Our business has been impacted by
significant external shocks."

The Greece crisis will have a £5m impact in the current year as the firm had to
ramp up reductions on late bookings amid fears of problems the debt-laden
country could face as it came close to the brink of collapse before reaching
agreement with its creditors.

Meanwhile the strength of the pound against the euro and the Swedish krona was
expected to have a £39m impact on full-year results, up from the £25m previously
expected.

It came as Thomas Cook reported an improved performance in the three months to
the end of June. Pre-tax losses nearly halved from £81m to £44m.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 31, 2015 Friday 11:34 AM GMT

Palestinian toddler burnt alive after masked 'Jewish extremists' target home in
arson attack;
Israeli leaders have condemned the 'evil' terror attack and called for restraint

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 497 words


An eighteen-month-old Palestinian child has been burnt alive in an arson attack
by suspected Jewish extremists on a home in the West Bank village of Duma.

Ali Saad Dawabsha was asleep with the rest of his family when masked individuals
targeted the house with graffiti before throwing two firebombs into the home at
4am on Friday morning.

The attackers allegedly daubed the walls of the two homes in Kafr Duma with a
"Price tag" slogan - as used by Israeli extremists in the past - which was
quickly shared on social media.

They also reportedly sprayed "revenge" and "long live the Messiah" on the walls
in Hebrew, according to Haaretz.

Although the child's father, Sa'ad, managed to get his wife, Reham, and
four-year-old son Ahmed out of the building, witnesses told reporters he was
unable to find the youngest as there was no electricity. The house next door,
which was also targeted, was empty.

READ MORE: Six people stabbed in Jerusalem at gay pride march

Four people were evacuated to a hospital in Nablus, in the West Bank, and then
to a burn unit at Sheba Medical Centre, Tel Ha-Shomer. Israel's defence minister
tweeted on Friday morning that the family would be transferred to Israeli
hospitals.

The toddler's mother sustained 70 per cent burns. An Israeli military
spokesperson said three people were critically injured in the attack, with
another suffering from slight wounds.

The attack has been labelled the worst since a Palestinian youth was abducted
and set fire to at around this time last year. Authorities have urged people to
show restraint.

We have no intention of letting terrorists continue such evil.- Moshe Bogie
Ya'alon (@bogie_yaalon) July 31, 2015

I would like to extend my deepest condolences to the Dawabsha family on the
murder of Ali and wish the wounded family members full recovery - Moshe Bogie
Ya'alon (@bogie_yaalon) July 31, 2015

The Israeli Defence Force (IDF) confirmed the attack, with Brigader-General Moti
Almoz telling the Jerusalem Post he does "not remember an incident this severe
in recent years."

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the "terrible criminal act,"
telling the newspaper: "This is a terror attack. Israel deals harshly with
terrorism, no matter who the perpetrators are".

However, the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) tweeted on Friday morning
that the attack was the "direct consequence of decades of impunity given by the
Israeli government to settler terrorism".

IDF spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner labelled the attack "nothing
short of a barbaric act of terrorism".

He confirmed that an investigation to discover the perpetrators and bring them
to justice was on-going as soldiers are patrol the area. Two infantry brigades
have reportedly stopped training exercises and returned to their bases.

Reporting by Reuters and additional reporting by Associated Press

<em class="italic" />Countries with the worst relations with neighbours

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 31, 2015 Friday 10:55 PM GMT

Military analysts puzzle over recovery of 60mm mortar from terrorists who
attacked Punjab police station

BYLINE: SANDEEP UNNITHAN

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 741 words


Military analysts are puzzled by the recovery of a 60mm mortar from the three
terrorists who struck at a police station in Dinanagar near Gurdaspur on July
27.

This is mainly because the mortar is an indirect fire weapon effective only in
open spaces.

The terrorists who attacked the police station in Dinanagar, which is 20
kilometres away from the international border, were later holed up in a building
where they were eliminated by the Punjab Police's SWAT team.

The terrorists armed with AK series rifles had earlier shot at a passenger bus
and planted plastic explosives on a railway track before they stormed the police
station.

"It is strange that terrorists who attacked the police station would lug along a
10-kg weapon for over 20 km, if it had no tactical utility," says Colonel Vivek
Chadha (retired) of the New Delhi-based Institute of Defence Studies and
Analysis (IDSA).

"If the mortar has Indian markings, this could be to confuse investigating
agencies of a local hand in the attacks."

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the terrorists had come from
Pakistan.

Punjab Police officers, who spoke to India Today, played down the recovery of
the mortar.

A senior police officer in Gurdaspur confirmed that a mortar tube and one live
round were recovered from the scene after the operation, but declined to provide
further details like the manufacturer of the mortar or the live round.

Curiously, on July 22 the police recovered nine live mortar rounds from the
railway tracks in Kurukshetra, Haryana.

The nine 51mm rounds were recovered from the Delhi-Ambala railway tracks early
in the morning, over 300 kilometres south-east of Dinanagar.

These shells belonging to the Indian Navy had been declared missing in October
2012.

Mortar rounds from the ordnance factories are normally despatched in boxes of
10.

One round could not be traced, police officers confirmed.

The shells were manufactured at the Ordnance Factory Khadki and shipped to the
Naval Armament Depot at Alwaye near Kochi. Naval sources confirmed that the box
containing 10 mortar shells had been despatched from the naval depot to a
government testing range in Itarsi, Madhya Pradesh for range testing in October
2012.

The shells were 'illumination rounds' used to provide target practice.

The consignment had been declared missing while in transit in 2012. The
Government Railway Police in Haryana has despatched a police team to Kochi to
probe how the missing shells surfaced in on the railway tracks in the state
nearly three years later.

Pathankot was on LeT terror radar

By Manjeet Sehgal

Arrested Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) chief Jagtar Singh Tara's interrogation
this year had revealed that Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) had a bigger strike plan in
Punjab.

Sikh militants and LeT had jointly hatched a plan in Pakistan to air drop four
Lashkar terrorists in Punjab's Pathankot in 2014 using a specially designed
glider.

Surprisingly, the police had overlooked it.

This comes as Indian intelligence agencies are still struggling to decode how
the three terrorists who killed seven people in Punjab's Dinanagar on July 27
had sneaked into Indian territory and roamed free for nearly a week in the
state.

Tara was involved in the conspiracy for assassinating former Punjab chief
minister Beant Singh but had escaped from Chandigarh's Burail Jail in 2004.

He was arrested from Thailand in January this year. Sources told Mail Today that
Tara ordered a Rs 10-lakh glider from Germany in 2013 for dropping the
terrorists.

"It was also planned that a Khalistan supporter will open a roadside eatery
(dhaba) for the terrorists till they planned their strike.

However, the glider developed snags and failed to air drop the terrorists in
Pathankot. It is still not known if and where the terrorists had actually landed
or crash-landed," sources said.

They added that KTF ultra Harjit Singh, currently hiding in Pakistan, had helped
Tara in procuring the glider. But Tara left Pakistan and went to Thailand after
his plan failed.

Tara had got some youth from Jalandhar and Bhatinda to Thailand and trained them
in making bombs.

The police nabbed one of the youth in Bhatinda who disclosed Tara's whereabouts
in Thailand.

Now when involvement of LeT terrorists has come to light again, security
agencies are linking Tara's plans to the Dinanagar terror incident.

Meanwhile, the Gurdaspur police on Friday conducted the post-mortem examination
of the three terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 31, 2015 Friday 7:44 PM GMT

White House condemns 'vicious terrorist' attack by 'Jewish extremists' after
Palestinian toddler was burned to death in his West Bank home in Molotov
cocktail attack

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words



     ·    Eighteen-month-old Ali Dawabsheh killed and four relatives injured
          after attackers torched  two Palestinian homes
     ·    PM Netanyahu called firebombing an 'act of terrorism in every respect'
          and ordered hunt for the perpetrators
     ·    Killers scrawled Hebrew graffiti including 'Long live the Messiah' and
          'price tag' as the attacks are known
     ·    Jewish extremists have attacked Palestinian property for years over
          the state's favourable policies towards them


The Obama administration today condemned an arson attack by suspected Jewish
extremists in the West Bank that killed a Palestinian toddler, branding it a
'vicious terrorist' act that must be punished.

In a statement, the US State Department said it welcomed Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu's condemnation of the attack and called for Israeli
authorities to arrest the perpetrators and bring them to justice. It also urged
all sides to maintain calm and not escalate tensions.

The body of 18-month-old Ali Dawabsheh has been carried through the streets of
his West Bank village for his funeral.

Mr Netanyahu called the firebombing an 'act of terrorism in every respect' and
ordered security forces to hunt down the perpetrators.

The assailants entered the village of Duma, near Nablus, in the early hours,
where they torched two houses and scrawled Hebrew graffiti including 'Long live
the Messiah' and 'price tag' as the attacks are known.

Scroll down for video

The attack further stoked tensions between Israelis and Palestinians, two days
after Mr Netanyahu controversially approved 300 new settler homes in the West
Bank.

The Palestine Liberation Organisation said it held Netanyahu's government 'fully
responsible' for the toddler's death, arguing it was 'a direct consequence of
decades of impunity given by the Israeli government to settler terrorism.'

Ali's four-year-old brother and parents were seriously hurt, according to Gassan
Daghlas, a Palestinian official from the Nablus area, who said the attackers
broke the house window and flung a burning object inside, causing 'a quick and
huge fire'.

Inside the torched home, relatives scraped through the ash and soot to salvage
any belongings. They found a partly burned picture of Ali and his bottle, still
one-third full of milk.

Mohammed Ibrahim Dawabsheh, a neighbour, said he saw the mother running out of
the house on fire and then covered her with a sheet to try to extinguish her
flaming body.

His son, Ibrahim, said he saw two masked men flee the scene. Another neighbour,
Mohammed Dawabsheh, said he tried to push into the blaze to save the child, but
the flames were too strong.

'I never imagined that this could happen, that someone could come and burn
people alive while they are sleeping,' said Hassan Dawabsheh, the slain child's
uncle.

'I don't know what those people were thinking. What do they have inside their
hearts and minds?'

The interior walls of the one-floor home were blackened and still radiated heat
as Israeli police surveyed the scene later on Friday morning.

A brown couch was covered in white ash as charred debris lay strewn around the
property. A second house nearby, which was empty, was also set on fire.

Jewish extremists have attacked Palestinian property for years as well as
mosques, churches and even Israeli military bases in opposition to what they see
as the state's favourable policies towards the Palestinians and critics say
police have been slow to catch the assailants.

It is, however, rare for anyone to be killed in such attacks. The latest 'price
tag' attack was swiftly condemned.

Israeli defence minister Moshe Yaalon said Israel would not allow 'Jewish
terrorists' to carry out such acts.

'We will not allow Jewish terrorists to harm the lives of Palestinians in Judea
and Samaria,' he said in a statement, referring to the West Bank by its biblical
name.

'We will fight against them firmly and with all means and tools at our
disposal.'

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 31, 2015 Friday 12:41 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack costs Thomas Cook £20million as firm issues profit
warning;
Last month's attack at Tunisia's Sousse beach resort left Thomas Cook with a
bill for cancelled trips, repatriated holidaymakers and rescheduled flights

BYLINE: By Graham Hiscott

SECTION: NEWS,BUSINESS NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


The Tunisia terror attack has cost Thomas Cook £20million.

The bill for cancelled trips, ­repatriating holidaymakers and rescheduling
flights came as the firm issued a profit warning.

Thirty eight people, including 30 Britons, died in last month's attack at
Tunisia's Sousse beach resort when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on
sunbathing tourists.

Tunisia was one of Thomas Cook's top sunshine destinations, attracting 700,000
customers across Europe every year. But the firm pulled out of the country after
the Foreign Office told Brits to stay away.

Thomas Cook warned the financial impact could also be felt in next year's
results.

Boss Peter Fankhauser insisted Tunisia would once again become a tourist
hotspot. He said "Terrorist attacks can happen anywhere. It happened in London,
it happened in Paris, it happened in Madrid and unfortunately it happened in
Tunisia."

Thomas Cook said the Greek crisis would knock another £5m off profits after it
slashed holiday prices.

Uncertainty over whether Greece would leave the single currency also drove down
the value of the Euro, boosting the spending power of Brits in Europe, but
costing the tour operator £39m when earnings are converted into pounds.

The firm said it had not seen evidence of holidaymakers carrying out a
threatened boycott following criticism of the carbon monoxide deaths of two
children in Corfu.

The firm yesterday reported an improved performance in the three months to the
end of June, with losses nearly halving from £81m to £44m.

British holidaymakers defy the terrorists and continue to stay in Sousse despite
beach attack

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       July 31, 2015 Friday 10:45 AM  EST

FCO MINISTER ELLWOOD COMMENTS ON ISRAELI SETTLER TERROR ATTACK IN WEST BANK

LENGTH: 155 words


LONDON, July 31 -- Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued the following news:

Tobias Ellwood condemns West Bank settler terror attack which led to the death
of a Palestinian infant.

Minister for the Middle East Tobias Ellwood condemns West Bank settler terror
attack, which led to the death of a Palestinian infant, and left his parents and
four-year-old brother seriously injured.

The UK strongly condemns today's horrific attack by Israeli settlers that
resulted in the death of a Palestinian child. This was a brutal act of
terrorism, as recognised by Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. We call on the
Israeli authorities to ensure that those responsible for this crime are brought
swiftly to justice. We also call on political and community leaders on all sides
to do their utmost to promote calm." For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Palestinian baby killed in 'terrorist' fire bomb attack in West Bank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words


AN 18-month-old child has died after suspected Jewish attackers torched a
Palestinian home in the West Bank.

Israel's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the arson attack that also
injured the toddler's parents and brother.

The house in the village of Duma, near the city of Nablus, had windows smashed
before fire bombs were thrown inside while the family slept.

Graffiti saying "revenge" in Hebrew was found scrawled outside beneath a star of
David. The parents and four-year-old brother of the young victim were in a
critical condition in hospital.

A second empty house was also set on fire.

Netanyahu said he was shocked and promised that "all means" would be used to
bring the assailants to justice.

He addedd: "This is a terrorist attack. Israel takes firm action against
terrorism."

Palestinian Islamist group Hamas called for revenge.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday

Baby dies in West Bank terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 383 words


The house in Duma, a village near the city of Nablus, had its windows smashed
and rooms fire-bombed shortly before dawn, as the family slept, the military and
witnesses said. Graffiti in Hebrew, reading  revenge , was scrawled outside.

Both the child s parents and his four-year-old brother were badly hurt. They
were taken by helicopter for treatment in an Israeli hospital, officials said. A
second house in the village was also set ablaze, but no-one was at home.

This was the worst attack by Israeli assailants since a Palestinian teenager was
torched to death in Jerusalem a year ago. That followed the kidnapping and
killing of three Israeli teenagers, by Palestinian militants, in the West Bank.

The Israeli military boosted forces in the area to search for the suspects,
described by a spokesman as  two masked terrorists , and to prevent any
escalation in violence. The Palestinian Islamist group, Hamas, called for
revenge.

Ibrahim Dawabsheh, a Duma resident, said he heard people shouting for help from
the house and rushed to it.  I saw two masked men outside,  he said. He went to
get help and when he returned they had gone.

We found the parents outside with burns. They said there was another son in the
house. We brought him out and then they said there was another boy inside, but
we couldn t reach the bedroom, because of the fire. He was left inside until
rescue forces came,  Dawabsheh said.

Pictures circulated by Palestinian media on the internet showed a smiling,
chubby-faced boy, named as Ali Dawabsheh. Footage from the house showed
blackened walls, and singed family photos scattered across charred belongings.

Netanyahu said he was shocked and promised that  all means  would be used to
bring the assailants to justice.

This is a terrorist attack. Israel takes firm action against terrorism, no
matter who its perpetrators are,  he said.

Part of Netanyahu s right-wing coalition is the ultranationalist Jewish Home
party, which advocates more settlements and settler rights in the West Bank.
Jewish Home leader, Naftali Bennett, denounced the attack, but Palestinians
accused the party of laying the ground for it.

Israeli military spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Peter Lerner, said an
investigation was underway and called the arson  nothing short of a barbaric act
of terrorism .

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 1, 2015 Saturday 1:01 AM GMT

'Out of the corner of my eye I saw a guy with a gun': Two young British
holidaymakers relive the horror of being caught up in the Tunisian terrorist
attack

BYLINE: DEBBIE HORSFALL

SECTION: YOU MAG

LENGTH: 2095 words


This is what British holidaymaker Ellie Makin witnessed seconds before the beach
massacre in Tunisia that shocked the world. She and her best friend Debbie
Horsfall tell Zoe Brennan what happened to them on that day and how they
narrowly escaped being killed themselves

For Ellie Makin and Debbie Horsfall, the trip to Tunisia was to be a rite of
passage - their first grown-up holiday together.

The two girls had become inseparable since first meeting on the Yorkshire tennis
circuit as 12-year-olds.

Now both 22, they have the easy familiarity of friends who have spent their
formative years together.

I meet them at the home Ellie shares with her parents and younger sister in a
village near Ripon, North Yorkshire, where Ellie - a former British Tour player
- works as a tennis coach.

Debbie, the third of four children, has driven the 60 miles from Huddersfield
where she works as a receptionist at a tennis centre. As a diabetic, she always
has her insulin pump and diabetes medication with her.

Ordinarily, a visit from Debbie would be a cause for celebration. But today, the
pair are subdued.

Little more than two weeks before we meet, their longed-for holiday was cut
short in a devastating way.

The tennis fans, who just wanted to get away somewhere hot to play sport and
relax, are slowly coming to terms with their new normal.

Terror, panic and death are now part of their life story after an IS extremist
opened fire on the crowded beach where they were sunbathing, killing 38.

The girls survived by no more than luck and instinct.

'An experience like that changes your perspective,' Debbie reflects. 'You
realise that things can change in the blink of an eye.'

As Ellie's mother, Suzy, makes tea for us all, Ellie and Debbie recall the
events that changed their lives for ever.

They had booked a week-long package holiday at the upmarket Club Hotel Riu
Bellevue Park, Tunisia, with the well-known tour operator Thomson.

The sports facilities at the hotel and the proximity to the beach had been a
major selling point.

'It all looked lovely; we thought we had been extremely lucky to find it,' says
Ellie.

Debbie's father Tim had sounded a note of caution, however: as recently as March
there had been a terrorist attack on the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis, in
which 22 people - including one British holidaymaker - had been killed.

The girls had asked Thomson about the security risk: 'They told us not to worry;
that there was good security at the hotel,' says Ellie.

Their fears allayed, the girls went ahead and booked, and early on Wednesday 24
June, they boarded a flight from Leeds Bradford to Enfidha.

Once there, they were taken by coach to the Bellevue in Port El Kantaoui, on the
outskirts of the popular coastal holiday town of Sousse.

'The hotel was right on the beach,' remembers Ellie. 'We were delighted. It all
seemed so straightforward - perfect, really.'

The next morning they played tennis on the hotel courts, and then spent the day
sunbathing in the 30 degree heat, before cooling off in the turquoise sea.

In the evening they decided to watch the hotel entertainment.

'We got a bit more dressed up that night, didn't we?' says Debbie to Ellie.

They laugh as they recall the acts.

'Proper holiday rubbish entertainment,' says Debbie. They ordered cocktails.
They were starting to relax.

The next day, Friday 26th, they skipped tennis and headed straight for the beach
after breakfast.

Dozens of sunbeds stretched out along the strip of white sand, which the
Bellevue shared with the next-door Imperial Hotel. The girls laid their towels
out in a spot quite far from the hotel.

Debbie recalls, 'We went into the sea and talked about how much we were enjoying
the holiday; we agreed we'd like to do it every year.'

At around 11am, Debbie went back to their room to take her diabetes medication
and check her insulin levels before returning to the sun loungers.

Moments later, their carefree holiday came to an abrupt end as they were
catapulted into a scene of unimaginable horror.

When I ask them to tell me what happened, the girls fall silent for a moment and
look to each other for reassurance. Ellie picks up the story.

'I was uncomfortably hot, and I just happened to stand up.'

That decision almost certainly saved the girls' lives.

'There was nothing unusual. All around us I could see holidaymakers casually
sunbathing,' she says.

'Then I caught something out of the corner of my eye, about 50 metres away, to
my right.

'There was a guy dressed like a tourist in shorts carrying a beach umbrella; all
of a sudden he dropped it, and I saw he had a gun.

'Immediately, he started shooting people to his right - he was literally
spraying bullets. I saw one man get shot in the stomach and another man shot in
the head.

'There was blood everywhere. If he had fired to the left I don't know what would
have happened; we could have been killed. I can't believe how lucky we were.'

Over the next terrifying hour, IS extremist Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, armed with a
Kalashnikov assault rifle and grenades, went on a rampage of destruction,
killing 38 people, 30 of whom were British.

'People just dropped to the floor,' says Ellie, still shocked by the enormity of
what she witnessed. 'People were dying around me.'

'I shouted "Gun, run! Gun, run!" and started running. People followed me.

'I don't know what came over me to shout it, but once I did, everyone was
screaming.

'I ran into the hotel pool area shouting, "Gun!" because people thought they
were hearing fireworks at first.'

Debbie quickly followed Ellie, pausing only to grab her bag, containing her
insulin pump. The girls were the first to arrive in the hotel lobby.

The staff seemed unable to understand what they were being told.

'I was shouting, "Have you rung the police?" says Ellie, 'and they were saying,
"It's OK, he's not coming into our hotel." They kept telling us to go back to
our rooms.'

The girls' room was at the rear of the hotel, on the same side as the pool and
beach, where the shooting was taking place. Ellie refused to go back.

'I shouted at the reception staff: "What are you doing about this? What's going
on?"' she says, her anger evident.

'I was going mad.'

She would later discover that her instincts were correct. The gunman went on to
target rooms in their corridor.

At that moment, somebody screamed,

'He's coming towards the hotel.'

Pandemonium broke out and staff ushered people towards the front of the hotel.

'Everything was so disorganised,' says Ellie.

Debbie adds, 'They should have had police, security - but there didn't appear to
be anything.'

The girls recall that the front entrance to the Bellevue was gated, but claim
the beach entrance to the rear - through which the gunman came - was unsecured.

Minutes after they fled the beach, the gunman followed them into the hotel. In
the chaos, Debbie ran towards the front entrance and the girls became separated.



By now it was 11.55am and the attack had been going on for 25 terrifying
minutes.

From the foyer, Ellie dialled her father's number.

'He kept calm and told me to find a solid room where there was no glass, and to
keep down.'

On no account should she go back to her room, he said.

Ellie ran along a corridor flanked with bedrooms. She could hear shots coming
from the floor directly above.

'I saw people getting into the lift, and when I heard the gunfire from upstairs,
I shouted at them to get out.'

She followed staff up a spiral staircase, believing it would lead them to a safe
room.

'But we just ended up running through more corridors, with the sound of gunshots
getting louder all the time.'

The gunman - who was later found to be high on cocaine - reloaded repeatedly.

Suddenly a door opened and Ellie was pulled into a bedroom by an older couple
who were hiding there with their grandchildren.

From there Ellie sent her mother a series of agonised texts. Suzy shows me the
messages, her eyes welling up: 'I love u'; 'shooting everywhere'; 'mummy i love
you'; 'do not ring me'; 'I am in hiding'.

'My blood ran cold,' says Suzy. 'This was every mother's nightmare. It was
terrifying.'

Time seemed to stand still, but she knew she had to stay calm for Ellie. Suzy
texted back: 'are they in the hotel?'

Ellie replied: 'yes they are', and 'Mum, I have never been so scared in my
life'.

Meanwhile, Debbie had hidden in another room with ten others, from where she,
too, called her father.

'I was scared of telling him [because he'd warned her it was unsafe] but I
wanted to hear his voice because I thought I might not see him again.

'He answered the phone all jolly, and when I told him "there's a man with a gun,
and we're hiding in a room", he broke down.

'He stayed on the phone for 20 minutes, and then he told me to text Ellie to
make sure she was OK.'

After assurances that it was safe, the guests were eventually persuaded to come
out of their rooms and at last the girls were reunited in the hotel foyer.

Outside the hotel, army vehicles and police surrounded the body of the gunman,
who had been shot dead by police marksmen.

A bomb was found on his body - he could have killed many more. Seeing him lying
dead brought the girls scant relief.

'They caught another suspect, but there was yet another still on the loose, and
a helicopter had to be called out,' says Ellie.

Returning to their room to pack, the girls were shocked to see the room two
doors away riddled with bullets. 'It was obliterated,' says Debbie.

'The door to the patio was smashed, pillow feathers everywhere. That could have
been us.' As to whether anyone died in that room, they do not know and could not
bear to ask.

Hurriedly, they crammed their belongings into their bags. In the foyer they
endured an agonising few hours waiting for a rescue plan from Thomson.

A woman comforted a boy who had been shot in the shoulder. A trail of blood by
the pool was a chilling reminder of the sudden and shocking loss of life.

A number of guests came up and thanked Ellie for telling them to run.

'If I hadn't shouted, quite a few people from our hotel would have died,' she
says.

If they were in any doubt as to the gravity of what they had been caught up in,
a television in the waiting area relayed graphic reports of the massacre, which
had made global headlines.

Finally, at 10pm, a Thomson representative announced that six coaches would take
them to the airport at midnight.

By 1.15am they were on board their flight home. The girls were allowed to text
their parents but were warned by Foreign Office officials not to post details of
their departure on social media, in case terrorists were monitoring live feeds
and targeted them again.

The wounded, wearing hospital robes and brought on to the plane in wheelchairs,
sat alongside the uninjured. A crisis support team came on board, offering
counselling. During the four-hour flight home, nobody spoke.

Suzy, who was waiting in the arrivals hall at Manchester, recalls the
disconcerting quiet of the airport, which had remained open to allow the
emergency flights from Tunis to land.

'People came off the plane looking shell-shocked.'

'The relief came only when we touched down on British soil,' says Ellie. 'The
tears came when I saw Mum and Dad.'

On seeing her mother, Debbie sprinted into her arms.

'I haven't needed to feel safe like that since I was a child,' she admits.

In the days since their return, the girls were visited at home by anti-terrorist
police, asking detailed questions about the attack.

Both have struggled to process what they witnessed, their hearts heavy that they
survived while others lost their lives. They have turned down offers of
counselling.

'We feel that those who have been bereaved have a greater need for support than
we do right now.'

Debbie says she has been 'fine' until recently, but admits that she now feels
'quite down'.

'I find myself trying to avoid people I know, as I don't want to keep reliving
what happened,' she says.

Ellie has bad days when she feels tearful, upset and angry and finds it 'hard to
cope with groups of people'.

'She's been sleep-walking and talking,' her mother interjects. 'Obviously a part
of her brain is reliving the experience.'

The girls have chosen not to keep in touch with other survivors, saying, 'We
just wanted it to end.'

On one thing they both agree. The lives of these two once-carefree girls have
been changed for ever by their experience. But they know they must look forward.



Says Ellie, 'You've only got one life, and you've just got to live it. I feel so
sorry for the people who have lost family members and friends.

'I wouldn't wish anybody to go through what we saw on that beach.'

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 2, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Queen 'at risk from terrorist air attack'

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 197 words


TERRORISTS targeting the Queen can use a mobile phone app to track the royal
helicopter, security experts have warned.

Detailed flight plans can be accessed using FlightRadar24, a live flight tracker
that provides the Monarch's exact route to those on the ground in real time.

It reveals the altitude, speed, GPS coordinates and route of the flight.

Former head of the Metropolitan Police's Royalty Protection Squad, retired chief
superintendent Dai Davies, urged the Royal Family's bodyguards to always be "one
step ahead" of terrorists.

He said: "You always have to be aware of the advance of technology, which this
illustrates, and the ability of these terrorist groups to think outside the
box."

The story follows an alert last week that Prince William's air ambulance could
be traced by the same app.

It is feared the data could be used to initiate a remote-controlled drone
targeting the helicopter mid-flight.

The Sunday Express used the app to track a royal flight as it crossed London,
flying just a few hundred metres up and clearly visible from the ground.

The icon was clearly labelled "The Queen's helicopter flight".

Buckingham Palace refused to comment "on matters of security".

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             August 3, 2015 Monday

Terrorists Attack Second Passenger Train In Two Days

LENGTH: 73  words



HIGHLIGHT: Terrorists attacked a second passenger train of the Trans-Asian rail
service in eastern Turkey on July 31 after a similar attack on the service a day
earlier, according to police.


News: Terrorists attacked a second passenger train of the Trans-Asian rail
service in eastern Turkey on July 31 after a similar attack on the service a day
earlier, according to police. The attack on the service, which runs between Iran
and Turkey, was triggered by a blast from remotely detonated landmine. Kurdistan
Workers' Party militants have reportedly been blamed for the second attack that
slightly injured the train driver (BGN News).

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       August 3, 2015 Monday 10:35 AM GMT

Man jailed for possessing terrorist material after posting attack video warning
of threat to Duke and Duchess of Cambridge

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 392 words


An extremist who posted a YouTube video warning of a terror attack on the
wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge was jailed today for 31 months.

Afsor Ali, 27, was found guilty by an Old Bailey jury of three counts of
possessing terrorist material and admitted jumping bail.

Before his trial Ali, of Bethnal Green, had acquired a stolen passport and was
on the verge of boarding a Eurostar to Paris when he was re-arrested.

Sentencing, Judge Charles Wide QC told him: "You pretended to the jury that you
were not an extremist but that was a lie. It is absolutely plain that you are an
extremist and you do support terrorism."

He described the Eurostar incident as "a really serious attempt to flee the
jurisdiction. If it had not been for a sharp-eyed French official at St Pancras
you would have fled."

Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when he took part in a protest against
American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside members of the banned group Muslims
Against Crusades outside the US embassy.

He was released without charge but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized with a laptop and external hard drive taken from his home during a
search.

When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful
to terrorists, the court heard.

Related stories

When police searched his home months later they found his new computer also
contained extremist material.

During the trial, prosecutor Oliver Glasgow told the court Ali had promoted
extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah.

In a clip from 2012 he warns the viewer not to attend the royal wedding because
of a terror attack.

In another clip, Ali hails the 9/11 attack as "an historic event", the court
heard.

The jury was also told that police recovered two personal recordings of a
telephone call between Ali and Omar Bakri, dubbed the Tottenham Ayatollah.

He also had a transcript of a speech given by Bakri in which the cleric seeks to
legitimise suicide bombings.

Ali was charged with possession of documents or records containing information
of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
al Qaida magazine - and an electronic file containing 39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

Israel's Hebrew press deplores attacks by "Jewish terrorists"

LENGTH: 794 words


The following is a selection of quotes from the Israeli press 4 August:

"Jewish terrorists"

Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Yaalon has said there will be no compromise in
the battle against "Jewish terrorism". Meanwhile, Meir Ettinger, the leader of a
militant Jewish group, appears in court today for a remand hearing after Israeli
police arrested him on 3 August on suspicion of involvement in a June arson
attack on a church

"It is difficult to pin hopes on the interrogation of activist of the extreme
right Meir Ettinger: The chances that he would speak are smaller than his
joining Peace Now... Nevertheless, his arrest teaches that the security-judicial
establishment has decided to remove the gloves. From now on, not only solid
evidence; also information and even suspicion is a direct reason for arrest...
On the (reasonable) assumption that Ettinger would remain silent in his
interrogation, the Shabak is expected to demand continued administrative
detention. In the next few days, few of his acquaintances are expected to be
arrested in what seems as attempt to 'shake the tree', in the hope that two
fruit will fall from it: Information about the perpetrators of the terrorist
attack at Duma and intelligence that would enable thwarting other terrorist
attacks being planned by those who starting from Sunday [2 August] are
officially called 'Jewish terrorists'..." [From commentary by Yoav Limor in
free, pro-Netanyahu Yisrael Hayom]

"In the first half of the last year, more than 140 acts of thuggery towards
Palestinians were recorded... Most of them do not entail bloodshed or torching
mosques, but small offences like beating some Arab who found himself in the
wrong place at the wrong time, uprooting and burning of orchards and brawls with
Palestinian farmers trying to cultivate their land and feed their sheep and
goats on land in dispute... What we have here are private lands which sometimes,
only sometimes, the court defends their robbed owners, or land that belongs to
the reservoir of land of the Palestinian public appropriated to the settlers
contrary to international law... A year passes and another, the savages
increase, their crimes become graver, the government is partner to their deeds
and it is already clear that the deterioration is inevitable, but perhaps it is
possible to do something for the soul, perhaps a demonstration, perhaps signing
a protest petition..." [From commentary by Yaron London in centrist, mass
circulation Yediot Aharonot]

Disengagement anniversary

In August 2005, the Israeli army withdrew from Gaza and dismantled all Israeli
settlements in the Gaza Strip

"More bewildering of all is Sharon's decision to uproot Kadim, Sa-Nur, Homesh
and Ganim in the northern Shomron. The 10th anniversary of this irrational act
[disengagement] falls in three weeks. All the attention was directed at
uprooting Gush Qatif settlements, and these settlements were forgotten. What was
the reason behind this scandalous step carried out after the destruction of the
Gaza Strip settlements? Since the IDF remained in the region and had not
withdrawn from it as it did from Gush Qatif, what was possible to achieve by
this demolition other than the suffering of the people who loved in these
settlements...? Are these miserable deeds irreversible...? It seems that Gush
Qatif will remain under Palestinian control in the foreseeable future... The
situation of Kadim, Sa-Nur, Homesh and Ganim in the northern Shomron is totally
different. The area is still under IDF control. It seems there is no reason for
preventing the settlers from returning to their homes..." [From commentary by
Moshe Arens in left-of-centre, independent broadsheet Ha'aretz]

Nuclear agreement

The US Congress is expected to vote on the Iranian nuclear agreement in
mid-September

"Everyone loathes Iran's regime, so this fact matters little to making a deal,
as was the case with all Western arms deals made with the loathsome Soviet
Union. But we used 'Distrust but Verify' procedures on a country that covered a
sixth of the world's land surface, with perfect success. Why would Iran, a much
smaller country, be held to standards higher than the equally untrustworthy and
13 times larger Evil Empire? Congressional rejection would politically destroy
Iran's comparative moderates and vindicate and empower its comparative
hardliners... Congress must avoid the rejectionist catastrophe and decisively
affirm Israel's security, trusting in its own long and successful experience and
expertise with nuclear negotiations and diplomacy as central to the invocation
of all nations as participants and stakeholders in a responsible and diplomacy-
based and integrated world..." [From commentary by James Adler in
English-language Jerusalem Post]

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

Israeli premier says expects international community to condemn terror attack

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 4 August

[Unattributed report: "Netanyahu: I'm waiting for world to condemn terror
against Jews"]

Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, who visited a Jewish woman who was injured by
a firebomb attack in Jerusalem on Monday said he was waiting for the
international community to condemn the attack as it had previously condemned the
arson attack in the West Bank that claimed the life of a Palestinian toddler,
Ali Dawabsha.

"A few days ago I visited the injured brother of the baby Ali who died in a
terror attack that targeted Arabs. Today I visited Inbar (Azrak), a young woman
who was injured from a firebomb by terrorists targeting Jews. Ali's brother is
four-years-old, Inbar is a young mother of three, ages, two, three and four,"
Netanyahu said. "Terrorism is terrorism is terrorism. Our policy is
zero-tolerance for terrorism regardless of background. We condemn it and fight
it in equal measure," he added.

Netanyahu said he was waiting for the international community to join him in
condemning the attack against the Jewish woman. "Days ago the international
community joined me in condemning the terrorist attack that targeted Arabs and I
expect it now to join me in condemning terror targeting Jews." "I'm still
waiting," Netanyahu said.

On Monday night, Azrak and her husband were injured in a firebomb attack near
the Beit Hanina intersection in the capital.

The incident occurred when a Molotov cocktail was thrown at their moving
vehicle. Azrak, 27, was evacuated to Hadassah Ein Kerem Medical Centre in stable
condition with burns to her body. Her husband was unharmed, although the car was
completely burnt.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 4 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

Official says Serbia not under "real danger" of terror attacks by Islamic State

LENGTH: 705 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 29 July

[Report by M.R. Petrovic, T.M. Subota, and G. Obradovic: "List of Serbian
Islamists; 10 Fighters of the Islamic State Under Surveillance"]

Serbia is not under any real danger from terrorist attacks by Islamic State
[IS], but domestic security agencies are closely following the steps of all
those that are known to have connections with the organization.

Momir Stojanovic, former military security chief and current chairman of the
Serbian Assembly Committee for Defence and Security, said there were about ten
of them in the Raska-Polimska region. "Their contacts and movements are under
surveillance by security services," said Stojanovic.

He said that potential presence of fighters of ISIS among migrants gave an
entirely new aspect to the threat, as between 1,000 and 1,500 crossed Serbia's
borders every day.

"Their guides often have up to $10,000 on them. The question is, where did the
money come from, who is paying for it?" asked Stojanovic and added that around 2
or 3 million migrants were waiting in Turkey to be conveyed to Europe and that
attention should be paid to them.

There are approximately 67,000 migrants in Serbia at the moment and one should
not rule out the possibility that fighters of ISIS could be infiltrated among
them.

"There is currently no danger of terrorist attacks and our security agencies
have taken every precautionary measure. But you never know with these things so
we should not rule out the possibility entirely," said Stojanovic.

He said that there were no camps in Serbia for training fighters of the ISIS but
that there might be such centres in the neighbourhood, primarily in
Kosovo-Metohija and in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

"We know that 37 Serbian nationals went to fight the war in Syria and seven of
them were killed. About 300 went from Kosovo," said Stojanovic.

He said that ISIS was as much a threat to Serbia as assessed by agencies that
held the extremists under control, said Stojanovic.

"But there are various controversial reports, among them that ISIS was selling
certain Western countries oil at the price of $20 per barrel," he said.

Security expert Dzevad Galijasevic said that Serbia was under danger from "well
organized and connected networks of extremists from the broader area of Sandzak
and Bosnia-Hercegovina."

Supporters of ISIS were already in Serbia, he said, and the biggest threat was
their connection with extremists from Montenegro and Sarajevo, and their
financiers from the West, primarily from Vienna.

"The victory of the Islamic State in the Iraqi-Syrian war gave them an illusion
of global caliphate, and so they have become more dangerous. Their weapons are
not just guns and bombs, their most dangerous weapon is radical Islamic
ideology, and they will die for it and kill others as well," said Galijasevic.

He said that the Serbian MUP [Interior Ministry] singled out Podbicanin and
Muhovic as the most dangerous, but no country in the region was taking the
precaution necessary to fight them.

Serbia and Bosnia-Hercegovina have neither carried out a serious action to sever
the funding of terrorist organizations.

"That is first that should be done to weaken their influence. No leaders are
being arrested, and in Serbia we have trials of some members of the movement,
but it is more of a formality. The most important thing is to arrest their
leaders," said Galijasevic.

Names of Serbian Citizens Waging War in Syria

Abid Podbicanin (36) from Velika Zupa, commander of the Jeish Mohammed ISIS unit

_Rejhan Plojovic (29) from Novi Pazar, took wife Emina (28) and two children to
Syria

_Goran Pavlovic (49), taxi driver from Zemun. Accepted Islam, took wife Nevena
to Syria

_Faton Jusufi (29) from Vranje, under influence of Jafer Ibraimi i Alban Alili

_Eldan Emric (34) from Novi Pazar, sniper in the Ebu Beid unit

_Tefik Mujovic (35) from Tutin. Took wife Selma Hadzic to Syria

_Asmir Avdulovic (26) from Novi Pazar, member of "Balkan unit"

_Samir Saciri (29) from Smederevo

_Aldin Galjevic (25) from Novi Pazar, in unit commanded by Nusret Imamovic

_Anita Saciri (19) from Smederevo

_Lejla Brahovic (19) from Novi Pazar

_Alma Smailovic (25) from Novi Pazar

Source: Blic website, Belgrade, in Serbian 0000 gmt 29 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Israeli extremist held over terror attacks;
WORLD BULLETIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 92 words


Israel's security service yesterday arrested a Right-wing Jewish extremist in
the first arrest made since the arson attack in the West Bank village of Duma
last Friday that killed a Palestinian infant and critically injured his parents
and four-year-old brother.

Meir Ettinger, 24, is Israel's most wanted Jewish terrorism suspect, though it
remains unclear if and how he is connected to the attack in Duma.

He is suspected of leading the group responsible for an arson attack on the
Church of the Multiplication of Loaves and Fish in northern Israel in June.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Beach massacre link to museum terror attack;
150 arrested over atrocity as Met specialist team helps Tunisians

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 441 words


COUNTER-terror detectives investigating the Tunisian beach massacre in which 30
Britons died today revealed 150 people had been arrested - and for the first
time linked the atrocity with the earlier attack on the Bardo Museum in Tunis.

Officers from Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command, who are working
alongside Tunisian police officers, say they are investigating a large group
believed to be behind both attacks.

Commander Richard Walton, the head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, also
ruled out reports of a second gunman. He said a man in "red shorts" seen holding
an automatic weapon was actually a member of beach security who attempted to
stop attacker Seifeddine Rezgui.

In his first update on the joint inquiry into the massacre on June 26 in the
resort of Sousse which killed 38 people, Mr Walton said: "The Tunisian
authorities have deployed significant resources into this investigation and have
carried out operations across the country to disrupt terrorist activity and
identify suspects in relation to the Sousse attack. I understand, in all, around
150 people have been arrested of which 15 have been charged with
terrorist-related offences and remanded in custody while the investigation
continues. The attack at the Bardo museum which left 22 dead, including one
British woman, is now being linked to the Sousse murders. I can confirm that a
team of officers, led by a senior detective from the Met's Counter Terrorism
Command, are working closely with the Tunisian authorities on both
investigations."

Officers in Britain have taken a total of 459 statements from witnesses to the
attack.

Detectives are also examining more than 370 photographic and video files from
mobile devices in an effort to build up an accurate picture of the events.

Police believe the confirmation of a link between the attacks in Tunis and
Sousse is significant even though the Islamic State has previously claimed
responsibility for both incidents.

It would prove that the Sousse attack was not the work of a lone wolf but was an
organised plot by a larger group.

Last month the Foreign Office advised British tourists to leave Tunisia
immediately because a fresh terrorist attack was thought to be "highly likely".

Detectives are continuing to appeal to anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed
the attack to contact them on 0800 789 321 if they have not done so already.

A PLAY examining the pull of Islamic State on young people has been withdrawn
two weeks before it was due to open. The National Youth Theatre was to put on
Homegrown, with a cast of 112, at UCL Academy in Swiss Cottage. Director Nadia
Latif said she was given no explanation.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 5, 2015 Wednesday 2:56 PM GMT

Tunisia beach massacre 'STRONGLY LINKED' with earlier terror attack which killed
22

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 668 words


THE massacre of 38 tourists on a Tunisian beach by an Islamic State inspired
gunman has been "strongly" linked to an earlier terror attack in the country
which killed 22 people.

EPA

38 people were killed in the Tunisia beach massacre

Metropolitan Police counter-terrorism officers said today they have connected
June's massacre at a Tunisian beach with the terror attack at the National Bardo
Museum outside the capital Tunis in March.

Seifeddine Rezgui was behind the ISIS-inspired rampage on a popular holiday
resort in Sousse two months ago which left 30 British tourists dead. The gunman
opened fire on tourists after coming in from the sea using a jet ski or
speedboat. Related articles  WATCH: Tunisia gunman walks calmly down beach with
AK-47 after...  Wife shielded from Tunisia terror gunman by husband attends
his... After shooting on the beach, the gunman entered the Hotel Imperial
Marhaba and shot more holidaymakers inside before running out of the hotel where
police shot him dead.

Commander Richard Walton, of the Metropolitan Police which supplied officers to
help the Tunisian investigation into the massacre, said: "We are now linking
evidentially the Bardo Museum investigation with the Sousse investigation."

Mr Walton, head of Met's Counter Terrorism Command, declined to provide details
of the connection, only saying: "It is strong evidence that links the two."

ANADOLU AGENCY

22 people were killed in the Bardo museum attack

ANADOLU AGENCY

38 tourists were killed in Sousse

He said a team of officers are working closely with the Tunisian authorities on
both inquiries and the coroner in the UK has been told about the link.

It recently emerged that Rezgui was trained at the same Libyan terror camp as
the gunmen who carried out the Bardo museum attack.

The 24-year-old Tunisian was coached at the same time as the Bardo museum
jihadists Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui, one of Tunisia's top security
officials announced at the end of June.

Rafik Chelli, the secretary of state for the Interior Ministry, said:"It has
been confirmed that the attacker trained in Libya with weapons at the same
period as the Bardo attackers.

"He crossed the borders secretly."

ANADOLU AGENCY

A minute's silence held on the beach in Sousse

Mr Chelli said Rezgui, a 24-year-old Master's student in electrical engineering,
left his studies at Kairouan University and sneaked into the western Libyan town
of Sabratha in January, where the two young men were.

Tunisian authorities have arrested 150 people to date over the Sousse attack. Of
those, 15 have been charged with terrorism offences.

Scotland Yard revealed that British officers have taken a total of 459 witness
statements since the day of the beach attack in June.

Confusion over the version of events has cast doubt on the sketchy version of
the Sousse beach massacre, which was believed to have been carried out by a
single terrorist.

EPA

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Sousse attack

Some British tourists who survived the attack in Sousse have said they saw a
second man wearing red shorts carrying a gun amid the chaos on the beach.

Scotland Yard, which supplied officers to help the Tunisian investigation into
the beach massacre, said it was keeping an "open mind" on the possibility that a
second gunman was involved in the attack despite believing the person identified
was a beach security worker who attempted to stop Rezgui.

Scotland Yard detectives are examining more than 370 photos and videos from
mobile devices provided by witnesses to the Sousse atrocity.

Related articles Parents of Tunisia terror attack gunman claim he was 'FRAMED'
over Sousse beach massacre Tunisia attack: Hundreds pay tribute to 'best parents
in the world' and a 'family rock' Gym owner apologises after telling people
terror attacks could 'inspire you to get fit' Tunisia terror attack: Hundreds
line streets for funeral of ex-Birmingham City footballer Wife shielded from
Tunisia terror gunman by husband attends his funeral in an ambulance

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 5, 2015 Wednesday 5:28 PM GMT

Tunisia beach massacre that killed 30 Britons was linked to March terror attack
on museum, says Scotland Yard

BYLINE: THOMAS BURROWS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words



     ·    Counter terrorism officers have linked Sousse and Tunis terrorist
          attacks
     ·    Scotland Yard said it has established a 'strong' link between the two
     ·    Sousse bloodbath left 38 tourists, including 30 British holidaymakers,
          dead
     ·    Attack came just months after 22 people were gunned down in Tunis


The slaughter of 30 British tourists on a Tunisian beach is being 'strongly'
linked to an earlier terror attack in the country which killed 22, Scotland Yard
said today.

Some 30 Britons were among 38 tourists murdered on the beach in Sousse by gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui.

In the chilling massacre, Rezgui pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach
parasol and fired bullets at sunbathers lounging on a beachfront resort in the
deadliest Islamist attack on westerners since the July 7 London bombings in
2005.

The gunman, who was laughing and joking among the midday bathers, was later shot
dead by police after a rampage lasting at least 20 minutes.

The attack in June came just months after 22 people, mostly tourists, were
gunned down at the National Bardo Museum outside the capital Tunis in March.

The terrorist organisation ISIS have said they are behind both attacks.

Tunisian authorities have so far arrested 150 people in relation to the Sousse
attack. Of those, 15 have been charged with terrorism offences.

Those charged face allegations including being involved in a terrorist plot, not
informing police of a plan and providing logistical or other support.

A trial in relation to the murders is not expected to take place for up to 18
months.

Commander Richard Walton, of the Metropolitan Police which supplied officers to
help the Tunisian investigation into the massacre, said: 'We are now linking
evidentially the Bardo Museum investigation with the Sousse investigation.'

He did not provide further details of the suspected connection but said it was
based on 'strong' evidence.

In the aftermath of the Sousse attack, Tunisian officials said Rezgui trained in
neighbouring Libya at the same time as two attackers, Yassine Labidi and Saber
Khachnaoui, who targeted the Bardo museum.

Mr Walton, head of Met's Counter Terrorism Command, said a team of officers were
working closely with the Tunisian authorities on both inquiries and the coroner
in the UK has been told about the link.

British investigators have taken a total of 459 witness statements from the
deadly Sousse attack, with more than 370 photos and videos from mobile phones
and other devices being assessed.

A number of witnesses have referred to a second gunman wearing red shorts.

Investigators said that although they retain an open mind, they now believe the
person identified was a beach security worker who attempted to stop the gunman.


The killer's body remains unclaimed by his family over fear of reprisals and due
to shame, Walton said.

After the June 26 beach bloodbath, the Tunisian president, Beji Caid Essebsi,
issued a state of emergency in the country.

As many as 3,000 Tunisians are feared to have gone to Iraq, Syria and Libya to
fight with militant groups, raising fears of returning jihadis plotting attacks
on home soil.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

India likely to discuss recent terror attacks at upcoming Pakistan talks

LENGTH: 366 words


Text of report by Indian newspaper The New Indian Express website on 6 August

New Delhi: India would have more ammunition in hand with the nabbing of a
Pakistani terrorist alive in [Indian-administered] Jammu and Kashmir for the
talks between National Security Advisers (NSA) later this month, even though
Islamabad is still dragging its feet in confirming dates for the crucial
meeting.

New Delhi has proposed that the talks between NSA Ajit Doval and Pakistan PM's
Adviser on National Security and Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz could be held here
on 23-24 August. Sources here said that Islamabad is yet to respond to the dates
suggested by India.

India had proposed them after the terror attack at Gurdaspur in Punjab, which
was traced to Pakistan on the basis of GPS coordinates. It was the first major
such incident in Punjab in over a decade.

Despite the latest attack on a BSF [Border Security Force] convoy in Udhampur
and successful arrest of a Pakistani terrorist, there are no indications yet
that New Delhi would be calling off the NSA-level talks. The talks are slated to
be the first concrete outcome of the recent meeting between Prime Minister
Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif in Russia's Ufa city.

In a reply in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday [5 August], the government also noted
that the talks between the NSAs would discuss all issues connected with
terrorism.

When asked to give details about the agenda, Union Minister of State for
External Affairs Gen (retd) VK Singh said India is committed to resolving all
outstanding issues with Pakistan through peaceful dialogue under the aegis of
Shimla Agreement and Lahore Declaration. "India expects Pakistan to abide by its
January 2004 commitment not to allow its territory and territories under its
control to be used for terrorism directed against India and for other anti-India
activities," said Singh.

He added that a "meaningful dialogue necessarily requires an environment free
from violence and terror".

India is readying a dossier on the recent terror incidents which have been
traced to Pakistan, with the Udhampur incident latest on the list.

Source: The New Indian Express website, Chennai, in English 06 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Egypt's Al Azhar condemns Saudi "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 6 Aug: Al Azhar [the highest Sunni establishment in the world] has
condemned a terrorist attack that targeted a mosque in Saudi Arabia.

The mosque is used by security forces in Abha, close to Yemeni borders.

In a statement, Al-Azhar said Islam condemns terror and acts of violence.

Al-Azhar voices condolences to Saudi King Salman Bin Abd-al-Aziz Al Sa'ud and
the Saudis, expressing support to the Kingdom in countering terror.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1620gmt 06 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

GCC condemns "terrorist" bomb attack in Saudi Arabia's Asir

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of unattributed report, entitled: "GCC condemns emergency forces mosque
terrorist bombing in Asir", in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency
SPA website

The General Secretariat of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) for Arab States
has strongly condemned the cowardly suicide bombing that targeted today a mosque
at the headquarters of the special emergency forces in Asir, resulting in the
martyrdom and injury of the forces and workers at the site when they were safely
performing the noon prayer.

It described the bombing as a heinous crime that is contrary to values and
principles of Islam and humanity as a whole.

The GCC Secretary General Dr Abd-al-Latif Bin-Rashid al-Zayani expressed support
of GCC countries of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in all its actions to protect
its security and stability and to ensure the safety of its citizens, and the
fight against these terrorist and deviant groups that have abandoned all values
and principles of humanity and religions.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1511 gmt 6 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 9:19 PM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Hero hotel staff who saved tourists to lose jobs as
work dries up;
THE travel ban on British tourists has seen a drastic fall on the number of
visitors to the Sousse resort which relies heavily on UK trade.

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 301 words


HEROIC hotel staff who formed a human chain to save tourists caught up in the
Tunisian massacre are to lose their jobs because of the UK travel ban.

When gunman Seifeddine Rezgui went on his killing spree, brave workers at the
Bellevue Park hotel in Sousse put their lives on the line and stopped the death
toll of 38, including 30 Britons, rising any higher.

But terror warnings since issued by the Foreign Office have led to the
cancellation of all holiday flights from Britain to Tunisia.

This has left the hotel in Port El Kantaoui - which relies on Brits for 60 per
cent of their business - almost empty and staff have been told it will close on
August 20.

Jihed Hassen, 33, who led the human chain that saved the lives of about 70
Brits, said: "I think about 100 workers will lose their jobs at the Bellevue.

"They helped the British guests when the massacre happened and were in the human
shield."

John Yeoman, 46, who was staying in the hotel with his wife, said: "We looked
from our balcony and saw a line of staff walking up the beach towards the
gunman. They had no weapons but still approached him.

"They were extremely brave and helped the injured with no thought for their own
safety. This closure is not fair on the staff. I'm gutted for them."

Suzy Barton, from Buckinghamshire, is friendly with several employees.

She said: "Many have families and some will be in trouble because there's no
benefits system."

Jihed, who works for the Bellevue's sister hotel, the Imperial Marhaba, blames
explained: "There are mainly Germans, Belgians and Polish now in the resort.

"The British can't get here because there are no flights."

The Foreign Office say further terrorist attacks in the area are "highly
likely".

A spokeswoman for Riu Hotels, who own the Bellevue Park, said the situation is
"very complicated".

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Strong' links between Tunisian terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 162 words


THE Tunisia beach massacre is linked to a previous terror attack in the country,
British police believe.

There is "strong" evidence of a connection between the killings in Sousse in
June and a shooting at the National Bardo Museum outside the capital Tunis three
months earlier, Scotland Yard said.

It is the first time UK police, who have been supporting the investigation into
the more recent atrocity, have of-ficially linked the two events.

Commander Richard Walton, head of Met's counter terrorism command, declined to
provide details of the connection, only saying: "It is strong evidence that
links the two."

In the aftermath of the Sousse attack, Tunisian officials said gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui trained in neighbouring Libya at the same time as two attackers who
targeted the Bardo museum in March, killing 22 people, including one British
woman.

Tunisian authorities have now arrested 150 people in relation to the Sousse
killings, with 15 charged with terrorism offences.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 5:07 PM GMT

Couple who survived Tunisia terror attack break up as they could not cope with
trauma

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 556 words


A COUPLE broke up after surviving the Tunisia beach terror attack because they
were unable to support each other in the aftermath of the traumatic event.

BPM · GETTY

Jessica Williams survived the Tunisia beach attack with her now former partner

Jessica Williams, 26, was one of the terrified beachgoers who witnessed gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui open fire at a holiday resort in Sousse on June 26.

The horrific attack, which has been linked to Islamic State , saw 38 people
killed - including 30 Britons.

Speaking of the deadly massacre, Ms Williams said she is still traumatised by
what she saw, and added that the event caused her and her partner to break up
when they returned to Britain.

She said: "We were going to get married but we were too traumatised and unable
to help each other through it."

Related articles  Tunisia beach massacre 'STRONGLY LINKED' with earlier
terror...  British hero wounded in Tunisia terror attack is invited back to...

Before the attack took place, Ms Williams had been enjoying her holiday at the
resort of Port El Kantaoui with her former boyfriend.

She recalled how she was reading her Kindle while sunbathing on the beach when
she first heard the gunfire that signalled the start of the attack.

Ms Williams, a nursing assistant from Nantyglo in Blaenau Gwent, said: "I stood
up, looked around and could see there was sand flying up.

"People started screaming. Every gun shot I heard was someones life.

BPM

Ms Williams on the morning of the attack

"I saw a man from the entertainment crew waving people up the beach. I started
to run and saw my boyfriend at the time in the sea.

"There was nothing I could possibly do so I just ran. I felt shocked. I just
remember my heart started pounding and my automatic reaction was to run.

"I saw people laying on sun-loungers and I didn't know whether they were hurt or
shot. I just remember thinking I need to go."

After becoming separated from her then-partner, Ms Williams ran back to her
hotel room at the Royal Kenz and instinctively phoned her mother.

She said she felt awful but that her automatic reaction had been to run.

Ms Williams added: "I had left my boyfriend and didn't know whether he had been
shot or was ok. It was like all of your worst nightmares rolled into one, you
had no control of the situation."

When her partner at the time arrived back at their hotel room, the couple then
waited an agonising 45 minutes before leaving their room.

Having survived the attack, they then flew back on one of the 11 flights from
Tunisia to Manchester that night.

Ms Williams said: "It was just an amazing feeling being home. When I saw my mum
she ran up to me and grabbed me and didn't let go for an hour."

This week it emerged that the beach attack has been "strongly" linked to an
earlier attack in Tunisia which saw 22 people killed.

Metropolitan Police counter-terrorism officers said they have connected the
Tunisian beach massacre with the terror attack at the National Bardo Museum
outside the capital Tunis in March.

Related articles Parents of Tunisia terror attack gunman claim he was 'FRAMED'
over Sousse beach massacre Tunisia attack: Hundreds gather to say emotional
farewell to 'devoted' couple Tunisia terror threat: 'Disappointed' Britons
criticise Government as they return home 'It is chilling': Tunisia beach gunman
'trained at SAME terror camp' as Jihadi John

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

UK police link Tunisian beach massacre with Bardo museum attack;
Counter-terrorism officers say they have linked last month's shootings in Sousse
with March attack on national museum in Tunis

BYLINE: Jamie Grierson and Jessica Elgot

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Scotland Yard says it has established a solid link between the terrorist attack
on a Tunisian holiday resort last month and an earlier shooting at the national
museum in Tunis.

The Foreign Office has told British tourists not to visit Tunisia after 38
holidaymakers, 30 of them British, were shot dead on a beach by a lone gunman in
Sousse last month. Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack.

Counter-terrorism officers now say they have evidentially linked that attack by
Seifeddine Rezgui with the March attack on the Bardo museum in the country's
capital, in which 21 tourists and a policeman were killed.

Related: Tunisia votes to bring in death penalty for terrorists

Speaking at a briefing for reporters at Scotland Yard, commander Richard Walton,
head of counter-terrorism command, said: "We are now linking evidentially the
Bardo museum investigation in Tunisia, that attack, with the Sousse
investigation.

"We have written to the coroner advising him of the connection between the two."

Walton said he could not give specific details of the evidence linking the two
attacks but said it was "strong".

Tunisian authorities have arrested 159 people in relation to the attack in
Sousse, with 15 charged with terrorism-related offences. Walton said the
authorities had 250 investigators working on the inquiry.

Walton said that as well as the 30 Britons who were killed in the shooting, 17
more were injured, out of 34 people in total.

He appeared to rule out theories of a second gunman at the beach, saying witness
reports matched the description of a lifeguard who is understood to have used a
weapon to confront Rezgui.

British investigators have taken a total of 459 witness statements from the day
of the attack, with more than 370 photos and videos from mobile phones and other
devices being assessed.

Related: Foreign Office advises Britons to leave Tunisia in wake of attack

The killer's body remains unclaimed by his family over fear of reprisals and due
to shame, Walton said.

After the 26 June shootings at the Mediterranean resort of Port El Kantaoui, the
Tunisian president, Beji Caid Essebsi, decreed a state of emergency in the
country.

"We are engaged in a ferocious war against terrorism to protect lives and
property, defend the republican regimes," Tunisia's prime minister, Habib Essid,
told parliament.

"We would not have felt obliged to decree the state of emergency if we were not
convinced that our country was facing numerous terrorist plans to destabilise
the country."

As many as 3,000 Tunisians are feared to have gone to Iraq, Syria and Libya to
fight with militant groups, raising fears of returning jihadis plotting attacks
on home soil.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Police believe Tunisia beach massacre linked to previous museum terror attack

BYLINE: By Hayden Smith, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 180 words


THE Tunisia beach massacre is linked to a previous terror attack in the country,
British police believe.

There is "strong" evidence of a connection between the killings in Sousse in
June and a shooting at the National Bardo Museum outside the capital Tunis three
months earlier, Scotland Yard said.

It is the first time UK police, who have been supporting the investigation into
the more recent atrocity, have officially linked the two events.

Commander Richard Walton said: "We are now linking evidentially the Bardo Museum
investigation with the Sousse investigation."

In the aftermath of the Sousse attack, Tunisian officials said gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui trained in neighbouring Libya at the same time as two attackers who
targeted the Bardo museum in March, killing 22 people.

Mr Walton, head of Met's counter terrorism command, declined to provide details
of the connection, only saying: "It is strong evidence that links the two."

He said a team of officers are working closely with the Tunisian authorities on
both inquiries and the coroner in the UK has been told about the link.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 8:05 PM GMT

Carlos Menem: Argentina's former President on trial for derailing investigation
into 1994 bombing of Jewish centre that killed 85 people;
No one has been convicted of the terror attack on the Argentine Israelite Mutual
Association, but Mr Menem's Syrian ancestry will now be probed

BYLINE: Debora Rey, Peter Prengaman

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 725 words


More than 21 years after a bomb ripped through a Jewish community centre in
Buenos Aires, ex-President Carlos Menem, a former top judge and several other
officials are on trial for allegedly derailing the investigation into the South
American nation's worst terrorist attack.

On a day of heavy rain, several of the 13 men charged in the cover-up were
ushered into the court. Mr Menem, president between 1989 and 1999, was absent.
It wasn't immediately clear where the now 85-year-old was or if lawyers would
represent him at this point in the trial, which is expected to last months.

Prosecutors have accused Iranian officials of being behind the 1994 bombing of
the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association, which caused the organisation's main
building to collapse, killing 85 and leaving hundreds more injured amid the
rubble. No one has been convicted in the attack, which many Argentines believe
has come to symbolise an inept and corrupt justice system that operates at the
whims of politicians and can be bought off.

On the home page of Argentina's largest Jewish community centre is a counter
that keeps track of the "days of impunity" since the bomb detonated. On
Thursday, it reached 7,689.

"After 21 years of no justice, deception and defrauding the families (of
victims), we hope that the truth will emerge about everyone who plotted to cover
up and derail the investigation," said Olga Degtiar, whose son was killed in the
blast.

Read more: Carlos Menem held on arms trafficking chargesMenem 'took Iran bribe
to cover up attack on Jewish centre'Carlos Menem rejects Iran bribery
allegations

The men on trial include two former prosecutors, a former top intelligence
official, former police officers, a Jewish community leader and a mechanic who
owned the truck carrying the explosives. The charges carry between three and 15
years.

The trial is expected to focus on how and why Mr Menem and the others might have
wanted to bury the initial investigation. Testimony will likely delve into
geopolitics of the 1990s, and even into Mr Menem's Syrian ancestry.

Mr Menem, whose parents immigrated to Argentina from Syria, is currently a
senator representing La Rioja province where he was born.

Argentine authorities have long accused Iran and the militant group Hezbollah of
being behind the attack. To this day, several Iranian officials are on
Interpol's red alert list, though the Middle Eastern country has always denied
involvement.

Prosecutor Sabrina Namer is expected to argue that former Judge Juan Jose
Galeano, on orders from Mr Menem, stopped investigating a "Syrian trail" that
involved Syrian-born Alberto Kanoore Edul. Mr Edul was detained when authorities
discovered he had telephoned Carlos Telleldin, a mechanic who owned the truck
that carried the explosives, days before the attack.

Edul, whose parents had a personal relationship with the Menem family, was also
suspected because he had a planner that included the phone number of Moshen
Rabbani, at the time the cultural attache at the Iranian Embassy in Buenos
Aires.

Prosecutors have accused Mr Rabbani of masterminding the attack and continue to
seek his extradition. Edul, who died in 2010, denied involvement.

In an interview, Mr Galeano denied that he received any orders from Mr Menem. He
said Edul wasn't investigated further because there was no hard evidence against
him.

Calls to Mr Menem's lawyers were not returned.

Read more: Judge ends 'cover-up' case against Cristina FernandezAlberto Nisman
drafted warrant for arrest of PresidentCrowd calls for justice at funeral of
prosecutor Alberto Nisman

The trial comes at a time when the bombing is much in the public eye after the
mysterious death in January of prosecutor Alberto Nisman.

In 2004, Mr Nisman was appointed lead prosecutor in the case by then President
Nestor Kirchner, who called the investigation up to that point a "national
disgrace."

In January, Mr Nisman made a stunning accusation: that President Cristina
Fernandez, the wife and successor of the late Kirchner, had reached a secret
deal with the Iranian government to cover up the alleged role of several Iranian
officials.

Mr Fernandez vehemently denied the accusations. Nisman was found shot dead in
his apartment hours before he was to elaborate to Congress on his case, which
months later the courts would throw out.

AP

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 10:05 PM GMT

Jeremy Corbyn blasted for refusing to condemn IRA terror attacks FIVE TIMES when
asked repeatedly on live radio in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: GERRI PEEV, POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL and HANNAH PARRY
FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 776 words



     ·    Repeatedly asked if he wanted to criticise IRA's atrocities during
          Troubles
     ·    But Jeremy Corbyn  sidestepped chance to condemn bombings five times
     ·    He caused outrage after inviting Sinn Feinn to London after Brighton
          attack
     ·    Labour leadership frontrunner come under fire from relatives of
          victims


Jeremy Corbyn sidestepped five times the chance to condemn the IRA for its
bombing spree.

The Labour leadership frontrunner was repeatedly asked by BBC Radio Ulster if he
wanted to criticise the IRA's atrocities during the Troubles.

Mr Corbyn caused outrage when he invited members of Sinn Fein, including Gerry
Adams, into the Commons in 1984, a fortnight after the IRA's Brighton bombing
which targeted the Conservative Cabinet.

Scroll down for videos

When asked if he condemned the IRA, the Islington North MP said: 'I condemn all
bombing, it is not a good idea, and it is terrible what happened.'

The presenter then said: 'The question is do you condemn what the IRA did?'.

In his response, Mr Corbyn appeared to equate the actions of the British Army on
Bloody Sunday with that of the terrorists, saying: 'Look, I condemn what was
done by the British Army as well as the other sides as well. What happened in
Derry in 1972 was pretty devastating as well.'

Put to him a third time, he pointed to ceasefires that had brought about the
peace process 'which we should all be pleased about. Can we take the thing
forward rather than backward?'

When the interviewer asked Mr Corbyn if he was refusing to condemn the IRA's
actions, Mr Corbyn said he could not hear the question because he was on a
train.

Asked the question a fifth time, he said: 'I feel we will have to do this later
you know', before the line went dead.

Relatives of IRA victims criticised Mr Corbyn.

Ann Travers, who lost her 22 year sister when the IRA shot her dead, told the
Belfast Telegraph it was an 'insult to all our dead loved ones'.

Colin Parry, whose 12-year-old son Tim was killed in an IRA bomb in 1993, said.
'He saw an equivalence between the British Government's armed forced and
republican terrorists which I think anyone with a balanced view in Northern
Ireland could hardly agree with.'

Just weeks after the IRA bombed the Tory conference in Brighton in 1984, Mr
Corbyn was criticised for inviting Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams to the Commons.

The Islington North MP was accused of 'traitorous' behaviour for helping Mr
Adams plug his autobiography inside the Houses of Parliament in 1996. While just
last month he was happy to pose for pictures over coffee with Mr Adams who
described Mr Corbyn and colleagues as 'comrades.'

It is not the first time the Labour leadership front runner has come under fire
for his controversial choice of political friends.

The veteran socialist was blasted after he invited politicians from Hamas and
Hezbollah into the Commons, describing the extremists as 'friends' in a video
which emerged on You Tube.

Hamas and Hezbollah are proscribed as terror groups in the UK, EU and United
States and have been condemned for their brutal anti-Semitism and support for
terror attacks against Israeli civilians.

When confronted on his relationship with the extremist groups last month, had
claimed he used the term 'friends' 'in a collective way' to say 'our friends are
prepared to talk' and denied that it meant he was friendly to either Hamas or
Hezbollah.

Losing his temper on a live interview with Channel 4 News, he said: 'Does it
mean I agree with Hamas and what it does? No. Does it mean I agree with
Hezbollah and what they do? No. What it means is that I think to bring about a
peace process, you have to talk to people with whom you may profoundly disagree.



In February 2013, Mr Corbyn and his wife travelled to Gaza thanks to a £2,800
gift from Interpal -  a charity banned by the US government as 'part of the
funding network of Hamas', the Daily Telegraph reported. Interpal claim it has
broken links with the terror group.

While the Labour leader hopeful also partially sponsored the visit of
anti-Semitic Sheikh Raed Saleh to come to Parliament. Sheikh Saleh has
previously claimed 9/11 was a Jewish plot and described Jews as a 'bacteria.'

Mr Corbyn today attended the Hiroshima memorial in London and revived his call
for international nuclear disarmament.

Separately, he also refused to condemn the Tube strikes that brought London to a
standstill yesterday.

Asked by Channel 4 News if he would criticise the unions - many of whom fund his
campaign - Mr Corbyn said the striking drivers were losing money and were making
a 'sacrifice' to defend or improve conditions.

He added: 'They have made a decision to take strike action, they have every
right to do that.'

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 12:12 AM GMT

'Talks will go ahead despite terror attacks' say Government officials

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


The terror strikes in Udhampur and Gurdaspur have not deterred India from going
ahead with the scheduled dialogue with Pakistan.

The NSA-level talks proposed to be held in New Delhi on August 23-24 will not be
affected despite the recent terror attacks originating from Pakistan.

"We are still awaiting a response from Islamabad to our proposal to hold the
talks between the two NSAs on August 23-24 here," official sources said.

The recent terror attack in Gurdaspur in Punjab and today's incident in Udhampur
in J&K had triggered speculation that India may call off the upcoming parleys.

Being the host country, India had proposed the dates for the talks between
National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Pakistani Prime Minister's Adviser on
National Security and Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz later this month.

Last month Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz
Sharif, in a meeting on the sidelines of the SCO summit in the Russian city of
Ufa, decided to break the deadlock and agreed upon a meeting between their NSAs
besides some other steps.

But even as India awaited a response from Islamabad, militants attacked a BSF
convoy on Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Udhampur killing two men of the
border guarding force and injuring 11 personnel on Wednesday.

A terrorist, who had escaped from the encounter site and taken three people
hostage in a school building in a nearby hamlet, was also arrested later.

Regarding initiating talks with Pakistan, there seems to be a clear deviation in
the Government's strategy.

Soon after taking charge, the NDA Government had called off the foreign
secretary-level talks with Pakistan since they were engaging with Kashmiri
separatist leaders.

In the last year, there have been repeated ceasefire violations along the Line
of Control and the International Border with Pakistan.

While nothing has changed and Pakistan continues with hostility on the borders
and Pakistani High Commissioner in India Abdul Basit inviting separatist
Hurriyat leaders, the Modi Government believes that not engaging in talks with
Pakistan is not an option any more.

Sources said the developments after the Ufa meet clearly indicate that there are
powers in Pakistan wanting to derail the peace initiative.

Soon after the decision to revive the stalled dialogue was taken, Pakistan went
back on its commitment of providing voice samples of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the
26\11 Mumbai attack mastermind who is now on bail in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 1:57 PM GMT

Couple who survived Tunisia terror attack split up because they 'can't get over
trauma';
Jessica Williams and her ex-boyfriend planned to marry, but the emotional impact
of Seifeddine Rezgui's rampage on Sousse beach was too much

BYLINE: By Philip Dewey

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 580 words


A couple who survived the Tunisian terrorist atrocity broke up when they came
home because they couldn't get over the emotional ordeal that followed.

Jessica Williams, 26, was on the beach with her ex-boyfriend when Seifeddine
Rezgui began gunning down tourists in Sousse.

A total of 39 people were killed in the attack, but the pair returned alive -
only to find their relationship couldn't endure the aftermath.

Ms Williams told Wales Online they had booked the holiday a year before going
and had loved it up until the horrific events on the beach.

Despite having survived the attack, Ms Williams, from Blaenau Gwent, said she is
still traumatised by what happened and shortly after returning from Tunisia she
and her former partner split up.

She said: "We were going to get married but we were too traumatised and unable
to help each other through it."

Ms Williams said she was sunbathing on the beach reading her Kindle when she
first heard the gunfire that signalled the start of the massacre.

The nursing assistant said: "I stood up, looked around and could see there was
sand flying up.

"People started screaming. Every gun shot I heard was someones life.

"I saw a man from the entertainment crew waving people up the beach.

"I started to run and saw my boyfriend at the time in the sea.

"There was nothing I could possibly do so I just ran. I felt shocked.

"I just remember my heart started pounding and my automatic reaction was to run.

"I saw people laying on sun-loungers and I didn't know whether they were hurt or
shot.

"I just remember thinking I need to go."

After becoming separated from her partner, Ms Williams ran back to her hotel
room at the Royal Kenz which is next door to the Imperial Marhaba where the
attack had taken place.

Once in her room, she phoned her mother.

She said: "I was quite hysterical. I was just stood in the doorway not knowing
whether to go into the room.

"It was horrific waiting."

She said she felt awful but that her automatic reaction had been to run.

"I had left my boyfriend and didn't know whether he had been shot or was ok,"
she said.

"It was like all of your worst nightmares rolled into one, you had no control of
the situation."

Ms Williams partner arrived back at their hotel room and she said they waited
for 45 minutes while the gunfire went on outside the hotel.

She said: "When he walked round the corner it was the biggest relief of my life.

"Ive never been so happy to see someone.

"I just looked him up and down and made sure he wasn't hurt.

"We stayed in the room and the gunfire and commotion went on for 45 minutes
before I could hear police sirens.

"We were sat there in despair, we felt so vulnerable.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"I was just sat on the bed holding my ears because the noise was horrific."

She added: "We went down for some food in the evening and people were just
talking about what happened that day.

"Somebody dropped a plate and everyone jumped, no one felt safe.

"The only time I felt safe was when we were in the airport, but the bus journey
was terrible and I trembled all the way."

The couple flew back on one of the 11 flights from Tunisia to Manchester that
night.

They took a bus laid on by the travel agents to Birmingham Airport and drove the
rest of the journey back to Wales.

Ms Williams said: "It was just an amazing feeling being home.

"When I saw my mum she ran up to me and grabbed me and didnt let go for an
hour."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 15 Brits feared dead in Sousse shooting

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Family fun day to be held in memory of Tunisia terror attack victim Trudy Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 66 words


A FAMILY fun day in memory of Tunisia terror attack victim Trudy Jones will be
held in Newbridge on August 31.

The 51-year-old grandmother from Blackwood was among the 38 people tragically
killed when a gunman opened fire on tourists in a resort in Sousse on June 26.

The fun day will take place at Newbridge Rugby Club. Money raised will go to the
Trudy Jones Trust Fund.

Visit gofundme.com/yw5d9gg.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Tamworth Herald Series

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Police link Tunisian beach shootings to earlier terror attack on museum

BYLINE: Elise Chamberlain; News Reporter

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 308  words


DETECTIVES investigating the Tunisia beach massacre in which  Tamworth mum Sue
Davey was killed have officially linked it to a previous terror attack.

The Metropolitan Police have confirmed that there are links between the killings
and the terror attack at the Bardo Museum in   Tunis in March.

The news comes just weeks after hundreds of Tamworth residents packed out St
Editha's Church for the mum-of-three's funeral.

Since the attack in Sousse on Friday, June 26, UK police officers have taken 459
statements from witnesses and  Tunisian authorities are understood to have
arrested 150 people, of which 15 have been charged with terrorist-related
offences and remanded in custody while the investigation continues.

A number of witnesses have referred to a second gunman, wearing "red shorts" but
at this stage the force believes the man was a member of beach security who
attempted to stop the attacker.

The investigators "retain an open mind on this issue" and will continue to
follow up leads to clarify how many gunmen and weapons were used.

Detectives are also in the process of examining more than 370 photo and video
files which have been provided by witnesses to the atrocity.

Commander Richard Walton, of the Metropolitan Police, said: "The attack at the
Bardo museum which left 22 dead, including one British woman, is now being
linked to the Sousse murders.

"While I cannot go into further details regarding this live investigation, I can
confirm that a team of officers, led by a senior detective from the Met's
Counter Terrorism Command, are working closely with the Tunisian authorities on
both investigations and we have advised the coroner of the connection between
the two."

Police are appealing for witnesses to come forward - anyone with information
should email tunisiaenquiry@met.police.uk and send photos to
www.ukpoliceimageappeal.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tamworth mum Sue Davey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack continues to plague its victims

BYLINE: Philip Dewey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 608 words


AWOMAN who survived a terrorist attack in Tunisia split up with partner as they
were unable to help each other through the trauma.

Jessica Williams, 26, and her former boyfriend Daniel Gethings, 22, witnessed
the murderous rampage of Seifeddine Rezgui at the holiday resort of Port El
Kantaoui on June 26.

A total of 39 people including the attacker were killed in the attack which is
believed to be perpetrated by an IS militant.

The couple had booked the holiday a year before going and had loved the
experience until the attack took place.

Despite having survived the attack, Jessica, from Nantyglo, in Blaenau Gwent,
still feels traumatised from her experience and shortly after returning from
Tunisia, her and Daniel split up.

She said: "We were going to get married but we were too traumatised and unable
to help each other through it."

Jessica was sunbathing on the beach reading on her Kindle when she first heard
the gunfire that signalled the start of the massacre. The nursing assistant
said: "I stood up, looked around and could see there was sand flying up. People
started screaming. Every gun shot I heard was someone's life.

"I saw a man from the entertainment crew waving people up the beach. I started
to run and saw Dan in the sea. There was nothing I could possibly do so I just
ran.

"I felt shocked, I just remember my heart started pounding and my automatic
reaction was to run. I saw people laying on sun-loungers and I didn't know
whether they were hurt or shot. I just remember thinking I need to go. " After
becoming separated from her partner, Jessica ran back to her hotel room at the
Royal Kenz, next door to the Imperial Marhaba where the attack had taken place.

Once in her room, she phoned her mother and waited to see if Daniel, from
Abergavenny, would turn up.

She said: "I was quite hysterical. I was just stood in the doorway not knowing
whether to go into the room. It was horrific waiting for Dan. I felt awful
leaving him in the sea but my automatic reaction was to run. I would have only
been holding him back because he is fitter than me.

"I had left my boyfriend and didn't know whether he had been shot or was OK. It
was like all of your worst nightmares rolled into one, you had no control of the
situation."

Daniel eventually returned to the room where he and Jessica waited for 45
minutes while the gunfire went on outside the hotel.

Jessica said: "When Daniel walked round the corner, it was the biggest relief of
my life. I've never been so happy to see someone. I just looked him up and down
and made sure he wasn't hurt.

"We stayed in the room and the gunfire and commotion went on for 45 minutes
before I could hear police sirens. We were sat there in despair, we felt so
vulnerable. I was just sat on the bed holding my ears because the noise was
horrific."

Once the noise had died down, Daniel went to the reception to see what was going
on. They were later visited by Thomson reps who told them there would be a
flight home from Manchester that night.

"We went down for some food in the evening and people were just talking about
what happened that day", said Jessica.

"Somebody dropped a plate and everyone jumped, no one felt safe.

"The only time I felt safe was when we were in the airport, but the bus journey
was terrible and I trembled all the way."

There were 11 flights to Manchester from Tunisia that night, on one of which
Jessica and Daniel flew back.

They took a bus laid on by the travel agents to Birmingham Airport and drove the
rest of the journey back to Wales.

Jessica said: "It was just an amazing feeling being home. When I saw my mum she
ran up to me and grabbed me and didn't let go for an hour."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jessica Williams, of Nantyglo, was on the beach at Sousse in Tunisia in
June when a terrorist attacked <Bshooting dead 38 people Peter Bolter
050815JESSICA_007

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Western Gazette

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Morning terror as axe used in attack on door

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 219  words


A MAN has narrowly missed jail after inflicting an early morning attack with a
pickaxe handle and an axe in Yeovil.

Paul Goddard, 49, of Southgate Drive, Wincanton had gone to the flat in Heather
Road with his sister, Lisa, at about 1am on August 31, 2014. after her partner
died from a heroin overdose, Taunton Crown Court was told.

She accused the occupier, Ian Barclay, of killing her boyfriend, it was alleged.
CCTV showed Goddard arriving with a pickaxe handle and he drove away while his
sister was shouting at Mr Barclay through the door, said Rebecca Bradberry,
prosecuting.

Goddard returned with a small axe and his sister continued shouting. Goddard
smashed the axe into the door and they were both arrested. She was later
cautioned and given a restraining order.

Goddard admitted affray, possessing an offensive weapon and criminal damage at a
hearing last November.

Recorder Philip Mott QC said a pre-sentence report cited "severe emotional
pressure". He had made substantial efforts to deal with his problems, reducing
his alcohol consumption, attending an anger management course and contacting his
GP. He was sentenced to 12 months prison suspended for two years with 100 hours
unpaid work and ordered to pay £135 compensation. He was also served a
restraining order not to contact Ian Barclay for five years.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

'Strong evidence' links Tunisian terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 369  words


The Tunisia beach massacre is linked to a previous terror attack in the country,
British police believe.

There is "strong" evidence of a connection between the killings in Sousse in
June and a shooting at the National Bardo Museum outside the capital Tunis three
months earlier, Scotland Yard said.

It is the first time UK police, who have been supporting the investigation into
the more recent atrocity, have officially linked the two events.

Commander Richard Walton said: "We are now linking evidentially the Bardo Museum
investigation with the Sousse investigation."

In the aftermath of the Sousse attack, Tunisian officials said gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui trained in neighbouring Libya at the same time as two attackers who
targeted the Bardo museum in March, killing 22 people, including a British
woman.

Mr Walton, head of Met's counter terrorism command, declined to provide details
of the connection, only saying: "It is strong evidence that links the two."

He said a team of officers are working closely with the Tunisian authorities on
both inquiries and the coroner in the UK has been told about the link. Terror
group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Sousse attack, in which 30
Britons were among 38 tourists killed.

Scotland Yard provided an update on the massive investigation launched in the
wake of the beach murders.

Tunisian authorities have now arrested 150 people in relation to the killings,
with 15 of those charged with terrorism offences.

Mr Walton said Tunisian authorities have deployed "significant resource" into
the investigation. They have carried out operations across the country to
disrupt terrorist activity and identify suspects, he said.

Those charged face allegations including being involved in a terrorist plot and
providing logistical or other support. A trial in relation to the murders is not
expected to take place for up to 18 months.

British officers have taken a total of 459 witness statements since the day of
the beach attack in June.

A number of people have referred to a second gunman wearing red shorts, but
investigators said that although they retain an open mind, they now believe the
person identified was a beach security worker who attempted to stop the gunman.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 7, 2015 Friday

Pakistan asks India for proof in Kashmir terror attack allegations

LENGTH: 407 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 6 August

Islamabad: Pakistan said on Thursday [6 August] that India should provide proof
of any Pakistani found involved in terrorist activity on Indian soil, according
to a statement issued by Foreign Office (FO) spokesperson Syed Qazi Khalilullah.

This followed an Indian claim that Usman Faisal, a militant captured on
Wednesday after a deadly attack on a military convoy in the Kashmir region, was
a Pakistani.

Qazi Khalilullah said that the Indian claim was baseless and further said: "We
have repeatedly asked India to refrain from accusations."

Responding to a question about the Dawn op-ed penned by Tariq Khosa on the
Mumbai attack trial, the spokesperson said that he could not comment on the
article but added that more information is awaited from India in this regard.

He stated that Indian citizen Geeta Bharti had been put in touch with the Indian
High Commissioner in an effort to expedite her return. In the case of Chanda
Bibi, the Pakistani High Commissioner is in contact with the Indian Foreign
Ministry, said Khalilullah.

Also read: Mute Indian stranded in Pakistan desperate for home

He further confirmed that Pakistan has received Aug 23 and 24 as dates from
India for talks between the two countries' national security advisers (NSA) in
New Delhi. "Dates are under consideration by foreign office and agenda is being
prepared," Khalilullah confirmed.

Talking about a revision in control lists under the Export Control Act of 2004,
Khalilullah said that the revised control lists of goods, technologies, material
and equipment related to nuclear and biological weapons and their delivery
systems have been released. This "enables the Government to control export,
re-export, trans-shipment and transit" of such weapons and delivery systems, the
spokesman said.

"The notification signifies the continuing resolve and policy of Pakistan as a
responsible nuclear state to advance the shared goals of non-proliferation," he
added.

He additionally disclosed that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif would be going to
Belarus at the invitation of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko. This
will be the first time a Pakistani prime minister visits the Republic of
Belarus.

Sharif will be holding talks with Lukashenko as well as the Belarusian prime
minister, and is also scheduled to receive an honorary PhD from the University
of Belarus.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 06 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 7, 2015 Friday

Sudan condemns terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 273 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Sudanese news agency Suna website

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday condemned the terrorist attack against
a mosque in Saudi Arabia, stressing Sudan's support for the kingdom in its war
against terrorism and fundamentalism.

The Foreign ministry statement has pointed out that the Sudan, its people and
government stand by their sister, the kingdom of Saudi Arabia in its war against
the terrorist attack and against fundamentalism in all its forms.

The statement said the Sudan supports all steps taken by the Kingdom for
fighting all attempts seeking to undermine the security and the stability of the
kingdom or to undermine the social cohesion of the lands of the two Holy
Mosques.

The Sudan has "followed with rage and anger the horrible terrorist attack"
against the innocent worshipers in the mosque of the Emergency Forces in the
town of Abaha, Southern area of the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, that led to the
martyrdom of fifteen innocent elements of the force, the statement said.

It said the Sudan, its people and its government stand by the side of the sister
Saudi Arabia in its war against terrorism and fundamentalism and support all
actions to be adopted by the kingdom to fight back all attempts that seek to
undermine the Saudi security, stability and social cohesion.

The statement said Sudan was confident that such desperate attempts would not
weaken the resolve of Saudi Arabia and its wise leadership to continue with
their efforts for the prevalence of security and stability in all areas of the
kingdom.

Source: Suna news agency website, Khartoum, in English 0000 gmt 7 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             August 7, 2015 Friday

Terrorist Attacks Will Weigh On The North's Recovery

LENGTH: 638  words



HIGHLIGHT: Terrorist attacks will continue in the north of Mali, offsetting any
potential peace dividend from a June 2015 deal between the government and
Touareg groups. While the effect on the countrywide economy will be minimal, the
attacks will continue to hamper the north's recovery, negatively impacting the
tourism sector in particular.


 BMI View: Terrorist attacks will continue in the north of Mali, offsetting any
potential peace dividend from a June 2015 deal between the government and
Touareg groups. While the effect on the countrywide economy will be minimal, the
attacks will continue to hamper the north's recovery, negatively impacting the
tourism sector in particular.

A terrorist attack on Malian soldiers in the Tombouctou (sometimes referred to
as Timbuktu) region by the Islamist terrorist group al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Magrheb (AQIM) on August 3 underlines how illusory the country's newfound peace
is. While a return to the all-out civil war of 2012 is unlikely, we expect that
terrorist attacks will continue to blight the country's northern regions given
the irreconcilable political objectives of the terrorist groups and the
difficulty in policing the region. Despite plans to invest in the north, it will
continue to lag behind the south in terms of development, which will remain the
primary destination for investment.

Peace Deal An Important Step

In June, the Malian government and Touareg-led rebels signed a peace agreement,
devolving partial autonomy to the north of the country, and this should minimise
the risk of all-out conflict over the coming years. The country's
sparsely-populated northern region, which the rebels call Azawad, has been a
source of conflict for decades as Touareg and Arab populations complain of being
marginalised by the more prosperous groups in the south. Under the peace deal,
which was brokered by Algeria, the two groups will now agree on new security
plans and a development programme for the Azawad region.

This agreement is an important step forward in bringing a lasting peace to Mali,
but the Touareg groups are not the only political actors involved with violence
in the country. There are also a host of Islamist groups, including AQIM and
Ansar Dine, which have more fundamentalist aims, including the introduction of
sharia law across Mali and the wider region. In 2012 Ansar Dine co-opted the
ongoing Touareg rebellion in the north, taking the key northern cities of Gao
and Tombouctou until French intervention on the part of the Bamako government
turned the tide.

Islamist Aims Irreconcilable

The 2012 conflict forced a split between what had been an uneasy alliance
between secular Touareg groups and the Islamists - the Touareg rebels were
uncomfortable with the brutal version of sharia law imposed upon the region -
paving the way for the recent peace deal and a modicum of stability in the
north. However, we expect attacks the like of which took place on August 2 to
continue nonetheless. The Islamist groups have political aims that will never be
accommodated by the Malian government, and so are not going to give up their
attacks. Equally, the government will be hard-pressed to stop them. Despite
pledges by Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita to improve security, the
Sahel is a politically volatile and inhospitable region where the rule of law is
hard to enforce outside of the major cities.

The effect of these attacks on the wider Malian economy will not be overly
deleterious. The south is the richer region, where agriculture and what little
industry is based. However, the attacks will continue to set back the north's
recovery. Its arid landscape and poor infrastructure has hampered development in
the region, but the historical city of Tombouctou had drawn regular visitors
until the 2012 conflict, making tourism a key sector. Most foreign governments
continue to advise against travel to the region and visitor numbers have
plummeted in the years since, resulting in growing unemployment and poverty. The
resulting disenfranchisement of rapidly expanding youthful populations will lead
to more turning to radical groups, resulting in a vicious circle of cause and
effect.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             August 7, 2015 Friday

Security Council condemns deadly terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 231 words


The United Nations Security Council has condemned "in the strongest terms" the
terrorist attack that took place on Thursday at a mosque in Saudi Arabia,
resulting in the death of at least 15 people, for which the Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has claimed responsibility.



"The members of the Security Council stressed again that ISIL must be defeated
and that the intolerance, violence and hatred it espouses must be stamped out,"
said a press statement issued last night.

They further emphasized that such "continued acts of barbarism perpetrated by
ISIL do not intimidate them, but rather stiffen their resolve" that there has to
be a common effort amongst governments and institutions to counter ISIL and
other terrorist groups.

The attack was perpetrated at a mosque at the headquarters of the Special
Emergency Security Forces in the Asir Region of Saudi Arabia.

Underlining the need to bring the perpetrators, organizers, financiers and
sponsors of these "reprehensible acts of terrorism" to justice, the 15-member
Council urged all States to cooperate actively with the Saudi authorities in
this regard.

In their fight against terrorism, States must ensure that measures taken comply
with all their obligations under international law, in particular international
human rights, refugee and humanitarian law, the Council added.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 7, 2015 Friday 10:23 PM GMT

LeT militant Abu Qasim said to be the brains behind terror attacks in J&K

BYLINE: ABHISHEK BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 956 words


Abu Qasim, a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander in Jammu and Kashmir responsible
for a series of strikes in the state over the last few years, is proving to be a
mystery man for the counter-terror agencies.

Recent terror strikes on security forces have been carried out by terrorists who
infiltrated from Pakistan.

But the man plotting these attacks has been in the Indian territory for nearly
three years and is now giving a slip to intelligence agencies and security
forces.

Qasim, has again emerged as the brain behind the recent attack on the BSF convoy
in Udhampur carried out by terrorists from Pakistan, who after infiltrating from
across the border were received by him.

He instructed them to carry out the strikes.

Mohammed Naved alias Usman has told his interrogators that it was Qasim who
received them once they crossed over, and also provided additional arms and
ammunition to the group who had successfully infiltrated into Indian territory.

Naved has also told interrogators that he was part of a group of six terrorists
who crossed over from Pakistan.

Sources told Mail Today that Qasim has a group of around 20 young boys,
including some who have crossed over and also some locals.

"He has been operating from the forest areas of Shopian and Kulgam of South
Kashmir. He is the mastermind behind the recent strikes in the state. The
terrorists who infiltrate are given shelter by him and he gives instructions to
them on how and where to strike," said an intelligence official.

Incidentally, Qasim has been active in South Kashmir from where there has been a
surge in recruitment of Kashmiri youths by terror groups recently.

Sources said in the last few years local youths from the area have been joining
these outfits, mostly Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).

"It's difficult to say whether these recruitments have a link with Qasim since
it's mostly JeM and he is a LeT commander," said an intelligence official.

It is believed that his group of around 20 is split into smaller groups and they
facilitate the attacks by Pakistani terrorists who cross over.

They help them in infiltrating and then feed them with the local knowledge and
logistics, sources said.

Qasim is said to have infiltrated some time in 2013 and was allegedly part of a
strike on the Army on June 24, 2013 killing eight soldiers and injuring 16.

Since then he has been orchestrating all terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir.

There are reports that Qasim was present when Naved was captured after his
accomplice Mohammed Nomeen was gunned down when the two attacked the BSF jawans
travelling from Jammu to Srinagar.

Over the last two years there has been a series of terror attacks after
terrorists from Pakistan infiltrated and attacked the security forces.

Constant intelligence inputs have been generated about LeT terrorists in
Pakistan making attempts to sneak in and carry out attacks.

But forces on the ground have failed to plug the loopholes to ensure that the
terrorists do not cross over.

It's not just infiltration from LoC in Kashmir but also across the International
Border in Jammu that has been reported.

Recent intelligence inputs have also revealed that new terror launch pads within
striking distance from the International Border have been set up by LeT.

Backed by Pakistani forces, these have been set up in areas close to the border,
ensuring that the distance is so short that it takes only a few minutes to cross
over into Jammu and carry out fidayeen attacks.

Local link to recent terror attacks in J&K

By Manjeet Sehgal

The arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant Naved has opened a can of worms
about how terror groups are using locals to mastermind such deadly attacks in
Jammu and Kashmir.

In sustained interrogation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Naved is
said to have admitted that he and other militants got ample local support during
their one and a half month stay in the Valley.

According to reports, Naved was in constant touch with Abu Dujana, a deputy LeT
commander in Kashmir.

He had also met central and south Kashmir LeT chief Abu Qasim in Khudwani, who
re-grouped Mohammed Nomeen and Naved in Khudwani with whom he had split in Baba
Reshi.

The duo stayed in villages for days and travelled by trucks, which were arranged
by the locals. For nearly 40 days Naved alongwith Abu Ukasha,Shoket Lone,Shahin
Gulzar and Dujana took shelter in Khrew.

It was only on July 23 that five militants - Naved, Dujana, Shahin Gulzar,
Shoket Lone and Abu Ukasha - were picked up from the house and taken away in a
truck.

While Naved and Dujana were dropped at Kakapur, the remaining three militants
were taken to Pulwama.

Interestingly, the second vehicle was intercepted by the J&K police but the
militants managed to flee. Similarly, the three militants who killed seven
people in Dinanagar on July 27 were also helped by the local modules.

Ironically, satellite phone signals intercepted by the agencies in three
different locations including Ludhiana, Navanshahir and Banga has revealed that
the local modules were in touch with their bosses in Pakistan.

The milk bottle which was found from Dinanagar building where the three heavily
armed militants were hold up on July 27 morning had revealed their local
connection.

Sources say the militants had planted five bombs on a railway bridge which was
located close to the hutments of Gujjars who rear buffaloes for milk.

The Gurdaspur terror attack, however, is still shrouded in mystery as the Border
Security Force (BSF)has refused to accept the theory that the terrorists had
crossed the Ravi river to enter India.

"We have not found any evidence of the terrorists using the river route.The GPS
coordinates could be misleading," BSF Deputy Inspector General N.K. Mishra said.



LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Woman is terrorised by attacks in her own home

BYLINE: Ben Blosse; ben.blosse@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 319  words


A WOMAN has spoken of her horror after she was attacked in her own home twice in
two days.

The woman, who did not want to be named for fear of reprisals, had to go to
hospital with severe bruising after the attacks at her home in the New George
Street area of west Hull.

The latest assault yesterday morning came less than 12 hours after the police
helicopter and armed officers were called to the street following reports of a
man with a large blade.

"At about 6am, a man and a woman came here when I had just gone to the toilet,"
she said.

"The woman started to hit me and smashed my head against the floor. They then
hit me against the toilet, which made me get a black eye. It was terrifying."

The woman said she believes she knows the people who had attacked her and
reported it to the police, who have said they are still investigating the
incident.

She said she was also the victim of a previous assault in her home less than 12
hours earlier.

"A man I had a brief fling with a couple of years ago came into my kitchen at
about 6.30pm on Thursday night," she said.

"He said, 'I have always wanted to do this,' and tried to bite my neck and
dragged me by my hair.

"He dragged me over to the sofa and pushed me down and lay on my body, and he
was on top of me on the settee.

"I smacked my eye against the table and I have bruises all over my body because
of it. He got a rope around my neck and was all over me.

"I managed to run out and ran to my son's house. When we came back, the man was
collapsed on the sofa because he was off his head on drugs when he had attacked
me."

Later that evening, at least six police vans and a police helicopter were
deployed to the area to investigate reports of a man with a large blade in the
area.

A force spokesman said a 23-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of causing
grievous  bodily harm with intent and remains in police custody. A 36-year-old
man was released without charge.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSAULT: A woman was attacked in her home for a second time less than
12 hours after armed police were called to the street following reports of a man
with a large blade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 8, 2015 Saturday 10:46 AM GMT

'Soviet Taliban' Irek Hamidullin found guilty in US over Afghan terrorist attack
;
Irek Hamidullin, 55, faced 15 counts including supporting terrorists and
firearms charges

BYLINE: Alexandra Sims

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 380 words


A former Soviet army officer has been found guilty of terrorism charges by a US
jury, including planning and leading a Taliban attack on American forces in
Afghanistan in 2009.

Irek Hamidullin, 55, a former Soviet tank commander who had converted to Islam,
faced 15 counts on Friday, which included supporting terrorists and firearms
charges.

Hamidullin was described by prosecuters as the mastermind behind the 2009 attack
on an Afghan Border Police base in the Khost province.

Prosecutors said it was Hamidullin's aim to lure US troops into a trap to strike
them with heavy weapons and shoot down US helicopters.

Assistant US Attorney James Gillis said: "He was clearly setting up for American
forces he knew would respond."

Hamidullin was accused of spending months planning the attack and claimed that
he had received approval from the Taliban and Haqqani Network to recruit
fighters and acquire weapons.

Hamidullin's defence attorney said that there was insufficient proof Hamidullin
had intended to kill Americans.

Around 30 insurgents died in the attack. No American or Afghan military
personnel were killed and no American helicopters were fired on.

Authorities have said that Hamidulloin was the only insurgent survivor of the
attack. He received serious injuries to his hip and lower parts of his body
during the incident and attended the courtroom in a wheelchair.

Read more: Seven Afghan soldiers killed by Nato air strike in 'friendly fire'
incidentAfghan Taliban political chief resigns as succession crisis deepensIran
nuclear deal: America has taken Iran's side - to the fury of Israel and Saudi
Arabia

One major dispute during the trial was whether Hamidullin had fired an AK-47
rifle at US and Afghan troops.

Three soldiers testified that they had seen him using the rifle, however an
American marksman, credited with bringing down Hamidullin, said he had not seen
him fire his weapon.

Hamidullin is the first military prisoner from Afghanistan to be tried in a US
federal court.

The jury in Richmond, Virginia reached their verdict after 5 days of testimonies
and evidence and after eight hours of deliberation.

Hamidullan will be sentenced on 6 November and faces a maximum penalty of life
in prison.

Additional reporting by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday

Recent terrorist attacks in Afghan capital seriously affect people's spirit

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 8 August

[Presenter] Three suicide attacks in less than 24 hours have seriously affected
the residents of the capital. Some people say that in the past, they felt safe
from suicide attacks at night, but now they are attacked both at night and day,
complaining that the leaders of the national unity government have failed to
fulfil their promises and worsened their relative security to ensure stability.

[Correspondent] After weeks of relative calm, the Afghan capital on Friday
witnessed three deadly attacks in the Afshar, Qasabah and Shah Shahidd
neighbourhoods, resulting in the deaths of 50 innocent Afghans and leaving more
than 400 wounded.

[Unidentified young man] Mullah Omar was blind and used to attack the people
during the day, but now his successor has two eyes and attacks us at night and
day.

[Second unidentified young man] We have not witnessed such a massive explosion
in the middle of the night over the past 13 years.

[Correspondent] MPs also believe that these attacks have seriously affected the
people's morale.

[Gol Pacha Majidi, MP, captioned] Unfortunately, it has negative impact on all
areas and the government has to take steps and launch civil moves to improve the
people's morale.

[Correspondent] The recent attacks in the Afghan capital left more than 50
people dead and wounded more than 400 others. These attacks are believed to be
unprecedented.

[Video shows interviews with local people, an MP, wounded in the hospital, the
sites of attacks, a view of the capital]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 8 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday

US official condoles over causalities in terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 268 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Kabul, 9 August: The US has reiterated cooperation with the Afghan government in
the war against terrorism.

Assistant to the US President for Homeland Security told Mohammad Hanif Atmar,
the Afghan presidential security advisor, that the US government and its people
support the people and the government of Afghanistan in its combat against
terrorism.

Assistant to US President Barack Obama for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism Lisa Monaco speaking to Mohammad Hanif Atmar, the Afghan
presidential security advisor, expressed condolences of the American people on
the recent deaths and injuries resulting from the terrible attacks in
Afghanistan.

A statement which Afghan Islamic Press received from the office of National
Security Council on Sunday, 9 August, says that Lisa Monaco condemned the recent
attacks and stressed the need for assistance with the Afghan government in the
war on terrorism.

In reply Hanif Atmar said the people of Afghanistan are unanimously standing
against these incidents and would not allow enemies to weaken the moral of the
people of Afghanistan by such incidents. He added that the Afghan government
would continue its efforts in the war against terrorism.

A number of bloody attacks took place in Afghanistan over the past few days
which inflicted casualties on hundreds of people. The Taleban have claimed
responsibility for two attacks in Kabul killing over 20 Afghan soldiers and nine
people, working with foreign forces.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 0817 gmt 9 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday

Iran condemns terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 9 August: Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham on Sunday
[9 August] strongly denounced a series of terrorist attacks in the Afghan
capital of Kabul that claimed at least 35 lives.

Condemning the attacks, Afkham condoled with the Afghan nation and government,
and expressed sympathy with the families of the victims.

"The recent acts of terrorism in Kabul demonstrated that terrorism would spare
nothing to achieve its inhumane and inauspicious goals," she stressed.

"The Islamic Republic of Iran considers terrorism as the common enemy of all
countries," Afkham further said, adding that Tehran is ready to counter the
common threat at regional and international levels.

A suicide bomber dressed in a police uniform struck outside the gates of a
police academy in Kabul on Friday evening, killing at least 20 recruits and
wounding 25.

Earlier in the day, a massive truck bomb killed at least 15 people near a
government complex and a military base in a residential area of Kabul.

That blast that hit at 1 am also wounded 240, officials said. It was one of the
largest ever in Kabul, a city of 4.5 million people in terms of scale,
flattening a city block and leaving a 30-foot crater in the ground.

The blast was unusually powerful in a city that is frequently targeted by the
Taleban and other militants seeking to destabilize the Afghan government.

The Afghan war between the government and the Taleban has intensified since the
NATO combat mission ended last year and most foreign troops were withdrawn.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1405 gmt 9 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

50 are killed in terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 178 words


A wave of attacks on the Afghan army and police and US special forces in Kabul
killed at least 50 people and wounded hundreds.

The bloodshed began with a truck bomb that exploded in a heavily populated
district of the capital on Friday and ended with an hours-long firefight at a
base used by US special forces.

It was the deadliest day in Kabul for years.

The Taliban admitted the police academy attack and the battle at the base but
not the truck bomb, which killed at least 15 people and wounded 248.

The United Nations said the attacks were likely to be the product of a Taliban
power struggle following the death of leader Mullah Omar.

The UN mission in Afghanistan said the attacks were the worst since they began
recording civilian casualties in 2009, with 355 killed or injured.

UN special representative Nicholas Haysom called it "extreme, irreversible and
unjustifiable in any terms".

One soldier and eight Afghan contractors were killed in the attack on a base
used by American special forces, Camp Integrity.

The police academy suicide bombing killed 26 and wounded 28.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST Aftermath of Kabul truck bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 9, 2015 Sunday 10:54 PM GMT

Marc Albrighton dedicates star turn for Leicester to girlfriend's parents
tragically killed in Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: LAURIE WHITWELL FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 445 words



     ·    Leicester defeated Sunderland 4-2 in their opening Premier League game
     ·    Marc Albrighton set up two goals and scored himself in starring
          display
     ·    Foxes midfielder paid tribute to his girlfriend's parents who were
          tragically killed during the terrorist attack in Tunisia


Marc Albrighton has paid tribute to the mother of his girlfriend, who lost her
life in the Tunisian terrorist attack in June, after producing a magnificent
personal display in the win over Sunderland.

The Leicester City winger created two goals then added a clincher in the 4-2
victory and celebrated by pointing to the sky in remembrance of Sue Davey and
her partner Scott Chalkley, who were among 38 killed when gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui opened fire on holidaymakers.

It was the first time Albrighton, 25, had both created and scored goals in a
Premier League game and believes the memory of his partner Chloe's mum spurred
his performance.

'At the minute we have my girlfriend's brother Conor Fulford living with us,'
said Albrighton. 'He was getting into me saying, "You need a celebration, you
need to do something for my mum." 'Chloe has been saying her mum has been up
there putting a few things right and she has definitely helped me out.'

He added: 'You look at life and everything in a different light. You think about
what is important and what is not important.

'If I can play football then it is taking my mind off things and if I am doing
well my family are happy and that is all I can ask for.

'I can't thank everyone enough for the way that myself and especially my family
have been treated. The support we have had has been unbelievable from all
quarters.

'Obviously I wouldn't wish it on anybody at all. When you have support you need
to know people are there because there is nothing they can say or do. We have
had that in bundles.' Albrighton starred in Leicester's great escape last season
after initially struggling following his move from Aston Villa, and has begun
this campaign in the same form. He feels he is approaching the best level of his
career.

'I am certainly getting where I want to be,' he said. 'Obviously when I burst on
to the scene at Villa it was going well and probably down to a couple of reasons
it has never kicked on from there.

'But I have always said if I can get a run of games in the team and get fit then
my performances will come. Last season towards the end of it, that proved me
right.

'Hopefully I can continue that into this season and do the best I can. Every
coach that I have ever had has said I need to add goals to my game. If I can do
that and chip in with my fair few then brilliant. The most I have scored in all
competitions ever in a season is nine.'

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       August 9, 2015 Sunday 10:30 PM GMT

Marc Albrighton dedicates Leicester goal to girlfriend's mum killed in Tunisia
terror attack;
Winger netted the third in victory over Sunderland then pointed to heavens in
tribute to Susan Davey who died with her partner in June massacre

BYLINE: By James Nursey

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,NEWS

LENGTH: 401 words


Marc Albrighton inspired Leicester with a superb display and gave his
­grief-stricken family ­something to cheer at last.

Albrighton's girlfriend's mother, Susan Davey, and her partner, were among the
38 victims of June's terror attacks in Tunisia.

It devastated the winger and his partner, Chloe, who have two young daughters.

Chloe's brother Conor is now staying with the Foxes star's family following the
tragedy.

And Albrighton, who got two assists and also netted against sorry Sunderland,
paid tribute to Sue by looking and pointing ­heavenwards for his goal
­celebration.

He explained: "At the minute we have my girlfriend's brother living with us. He
was getting into me saying, 'You need a celebration, you need to do something
for my mum'.

"Chloe has been saying her mum has been up there putting a few things right and
she has definitely helped me out."

City put an article in their matchday programme expressing their condolences,
and Albrighton said: "The support we have had has been unbelievable from all
­quarters. When you have support you know people are there because there is
nothing they can say or do. We have had that in bundles."

Winger Albrighton also explained how the tragedy has given him a new perspective
and extra motivation on the field.

He added: "You look at life and everything in a different light and different
way. You think about what is important and what is not important.

"If I can play football then it is taking my mind off things and if I am doing
well my family are happy and that is all I can ask for. They will all be happy
now and, when you see them smiling, it is the best thing in the world."

In pictures - Leicester 4-2 Sunderland:

Leicester City vs Sunderland

Albrighton's free-kick teed up striker Jamie Vardy to head in the opener on 11
minutes.

The wideman then crossed for Riyad Mahrez to make it 2-0 seven minutes later for
the brilliant hosts.

With the visitors in disarray, Black Cats' captain Lee Cattermole conceded a
reckless penalty which allowed City to go 3-0 up as Mahrez converted in the 25th
minute.

It was a dream start for new Foxes boss Claudio Ranieri and a nightmare for
Sunderland's Dick Advocaat who hauled off ­Cattermole before the break.

The visitors showed some fight in the second half as Jermain Defoe pulled a goal
back but Albrighton then netted before sub Steven Fletcher made it 4-2.

Are you tipping Leicester and/or Sunderland for relegation?

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2015 Monday

Afghan president accuses Pakistan for recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 345 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 10 Aug 15

Kabul: Afghan President Ashraf Ghani lambasted Pakistan on Monday [10 August]
over a recent wave of insurgent attacks in the capital Kabul that killed at
least 56 people.

"The last few days have shown that suicide bomber training camps and
bomb-producing factories which are killing our people are as active as before in
Pakistan," Ghani told a news conference.

"We hoped for peace but we are receiving messages of war from Pakistan."
Pakistan has historically supported the Taliban insurgents and many Afghans
accuse it of nurturing militant sanctuaries on its soil in the hope of
maintaining influence in Afghanistan.

Since coming to power last year Ghani has courted Pakistan, expending
substantial domestic political capital in the process, in hopes Islamabad will
persuade the Taliban to come to the negotiating table.

But his comments on Monday are the strongest yet against Pakistan.

"In my telephone call with Pakistan prime minister (on Sunday), I told Pakistan
to see terrorism in Afghanistan the same way it sees terrorism in Pakistan," he
said, referring to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.

"I ask the Pakistani government if the mass killings of Shah Shaheed had
happened in Islamabad and the perpetrators were in Afghanistan, what would you
do?" he said, referring to a Kabul neighbourhood that suffered a fatal truck
bombing on Friday.

At least five people were killed Monday when a Taliban suicide car bomber struck
near the entrance of Kabul's international airport.

The attack follows a barrage of deadly bombings in the Afghan capital on Friday,
which struck close to an army complex, a police academy and a US special forces
base and killed at least 51 people.

Pakistan had brokered peace talks between the Afghan government and Taliban in
July, the first round of which took place in Murree. But after the announced
death of Taliban supremo Mullah Omar, a second round of talks has been postponed
on the Taliban's insistence, said Islamabad.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 10 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       August 10, 2015 Monday 7:50 AM GMT

Turkey terror: Wave of attacks leave eight people dead

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 245 words


TURKEY has been hit by a wave of terror attacks leaving eight people dead.

GETTY/ANADOLU

UNDER FIRE: A police officer fires following a bomb attack in Istanbul

Three people have died following a bomb attack on a police station in the
Turkish city of Istanbul before gunmen opened fire on the US consulate building.

Four police officers were killed by a bomb blast in a road in Sirnak.

Another police officer was killed after Kurdish militants opened fire on a
military helicopter.

At least seven people - including five police officers - have reportedly been
injured following the bomb blast this morning .

It is understood the two people who died are the attackers.

A blaze collapsed part of the three-storey building in the Sultanbeyli area.

Two gunmen then opened fire outside the US consulate in Turkey's largest city.

No one as hurt in the attack.

A female suspect is being held by police following the attack on the US
consulate building, according to reports.

The two attackers reportedly fled after police fired back at them.

The other attacker is still at large, it is claimed.

Related articles Stansted Airport security alert as 'suspected pipe bomb' found
Man shuts down motorway after sick bomb hoax - so mate can get day off work
WARNING: Brutal ISIS plotting to blow up the QUEEN at World War Two ceremony VJ
Day 'Boston-style' bomb threat to Queen

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             August 10, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MARC OF RESPECT;
Albrighton tribute to girlfriend's mum killed in terror attack

SECTION: MIRROR FOOTBALL;SPORT; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 496 words


LEICESTER 4

Vardy 11, Mahrez 18, 25 (pen)

Albrighton 66

SUNDERLAND 2

Defoe 60, Fletcher 71

JAMES NURSEY on the touching moment that helped Leicester launch with a dream
start

MARC ALBRIGHTON inspired Leicester with a superb display and gave his
grief-stricken family something to cheer at last.

Albrighton's girlfriend's mother, Susan Davey, and her partner, were among the
38 victims of June's terror attacks in Tunisia.

It devastated the winger and his partner, Chloe, who have two young daughters.

Chloe's brother Conor is now staying with the Foxes star's family following the
tragedy.

And Albrighton, who got two assists and also netted against sorry Sunderland,
paid tribute to Sue by looking and pointing heavenwards for his goal
celebration.

He explained: "At the minute we have my girlfriend's brother living with us. He
was getting into me saying, 'You need a celebration, you need to do something
for my mum'.

"Chloe has been saying her mum has been up there putting a few things right and
she has definitely helped me out."

City put an article in their matchday programme expressing their condolences.
And Albrighton said: "The support we have had has been unbelievable from all
quarters.

"When you have support you know people are there because there is nothing they
can say or do. We have had that in bundles."

The winger also explained how the tragedy has given him a new perspective and
extra motivation on the field.

He added: "You look at life and everything in a different light and different
way. You think about what is important and what is not important.

"If I can play football then it is taking my mind off things and if I am doing
well my family are happy and that is all I can ask for. They will all be happy
now and, when you see them smiling, it is the best thing in the world."

Albrighton's free-kick teed up striker Jamie Vardy (pictured bottom left) to
head in the opener on 11 minutes.

The wideman then crossed for Riyad Mahrez to make it 2-0 seven minutes later for
the brilliant hosts.

With the visitors in disarray, Black Cats' captain Lee Cattermole conceded a
reckless penalty which allowed City to go 3-0 up as Mahrez (left, top) converted
in the 25th minute.

It was a dream start for new Foxes boss Claudio Ranieri (left) and a nightmare
for Sunderland's Dick Advocaat who hauled off Cattermole before the break.

The visitors showed some fight in the second half as Jermain Defoe pulled a goal
back but Albrighton then netted before sub Steven Fletcher made it 4-2.

Black Cats midfielder Jack Rodwell said: "We had to show a bit of balls out
there in the second half and try not to get beaten by six or seven."

Leicester: Schmeichel 6, DeLaet 7 (Benalouane 75), Huth 6, Morgan 7, Schlupp 7,
Albrighton 9, King 7, Drinkwater 7, Mahrez 8 (Fuchs 77), Okazaki 6, Vardy 8
(Kante 82)

Sunderland: Pantilimon 5, Jones 5 (Matthews 54, 6), Coates 4, Kaboul 4, Van
Aanholt 4, Johnson 6, Larsson 6, Cattermole 4 (Fletcher 30, 7), Rodwell 6, Lens
5, Defoe 6

Referee: Lee Mason

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ONE TO REMEMBER Marc Albrighton dedicates his goal to his girlfriend's
mother, a victim of the Tunisia beach massacre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 10, 2015 Monday 12:05 AM GMT

Leicester's Marc Albrighton puts tragic summer behind him in win over
Sunderland;
· Winger's girlfriend's mother and her partner were killed in terrorist attack ·
'I wouldn't wish what happened to us on anybody else' says Albrighton

BYLINE: Sachin Nakrani at the King Power Stadium

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 671 words


When Leicester had just gone 4-1 up, with victory on a wonderfully wild
afternoon all but secured, no one would have blamed Marc Albrighton if he
decided to mark the occasion with a joyous celebration. Instead the winger
turned away from the goal where he had just scored, ran towards where his family
were located and pointed both of his hands towards the sky. It was a poignant
moment for Albrighton following a summer of personal tragedy.

The mother of his partner, Chloe, was among the 38 tourists killed in June's
terrorist attacks in Tunisia. Sue Davey was just 43 when she died alongside her
own partner, Scott Chalkley, near the Imperial Marhaba Hotel and the weeks since
have been harrowing for all those who knew them. For Albrighton it has been hard
to focus on football but he returned to the day job on Saturday and, having
scored, decided then was the moment to pay tribute.

"We have my girlfriend's brother, Conor Fulford, living with us and he's been
getting into me saying you need a celebration, you need to do something for my
mum," Albrighton said. "Chloe's also been saying that her mum's been up there
putting a few things right and she definitely helped me out there today. I can't
thank everyone enough for the way my family have been treated. The support we've
had has been unbelievable. I wouldn't wish what happened to us on anybody else
and it makes you look at life in a different way. You think about what is and
isn't important. I'll see my family now and they will be happy, which is the
best thing in the world."

Albrighton's goal not only put the cap on an exhilarating Leicester performance
but also a hugely encouraging one by the player himself. Stationed on the left
of a four-man midfield, he was a constant outlet and assisted the opening two
goals, with Jamie Vardy and Riyad Mahrez heading in two well delivered
right-footed crosses.

That right foot was also to thank for Albrighton's 66th-minute finish -
alongside some poor Sunderland defending and a missed offside call by the
referee's assistant - and the feeling after this contest was that, alongside his
team-mates, Albrighton is determined to maintain last season's
relegation-defying momentum. The winger was an important element of the escape,
starting each of Leicester's final eight games of the campaign, of which they
won six, and proving that the potential he displayed after stepping up from
Aston Villa's youth academy into their first team in 2009 had not vanished.

That was certainly the feeling after he was released in May 2014 and struggled
to make an impact at Leicester having joined them shortly after. But he
eventually established himself in the first team and by the end of last season
was being spoken of as someone who had "inspirational" qualities by the then
manager, Nigel Pearson.

Pearson's successor, Claudio Ranieri, stuck by the player and on Saturday's
evidence the decision was a wise one. "I have always said that, if I can get a
run of games, then my performances will come," said Albrighton.

It says much about Leicester's performance here that Albrighton was not their
standout performer. On the other flank Mahrez was outstanding, while Vardy
played with his usual zest. Shinji Okazaki also caught the eye in the No10 role
while in central midfield, Andy King and Danny Drinkwater played with a level of
intensity and intelligence which suggests the loss of Esteban Cambiasso will not
be as devastating as first assumed.

If it was dream start, then, for Ranieri, for Dick Advocaat here was a reminder
of the gruelling challenges that come with being the Sunderland manager.
Defensively they were a shambles yet again - and lucky to find themselves only
3-0 down at half-time - while in attack there was little urgency or nous.
Jermain Defoe's well-taken finish on the hour mark and Steven Fletcher's header
to make it 4-2 on 71 minutes were all the 3,000 away fans had to cheer about.
"The whole team was not in the game, and that gives me a big concern," said
Advocaat. "I didn't see any positives."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 10, 2015 Monday 10:52 AM GMT

Leicester City's Marc Albrighton pays tribute to girlfriend's mum tragically
killed in Tunisia terrorist attack;
Former Villa midfielder says terror attack heartbreak puts life into perspective

BYLINE: Samuel Stevens

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 446 words


Leicester City winger Marc Albrighton says the tragic death of his girlfriend's
mother in the Tunisian terrorist attack in June puts everything into perspective
after his magnificent performance this weekend.

The former Aston Villa man was in fine form for Claudio Ranieri's side as the
Foxes swept Sunderland away with a breathless display to emerge as 4-2 victors
on the opening day of the new Premier League campaign.

Read more:Fearless Foxes blow Sunderland awayLeicester to investigate Vardy
casino incidentRanieri hails 'fantastic' Kasabian after 4-2 win

Sue Davey and partner Scott Chalkley were among the 38 killed when a gunman
opened fire on holiday-makers at a tourist resort at Port El Kantaoui, 10
kilometres north of the city of Sousse.

Albrighton, 25, delivered a stunning personal display, providing two assists to
Jamie Vardy and Riyad Mahrez, before grabbing a goal of his own. Speaking after
the match, he revealed the thought of his partner Chloe's mum spurred him on at
the King Power Stadium.

"You look at life and everything in a different light and different way," he
said. "You think about what is important and what is not important.

"If I can play football then it is taking my mind off things and if I am doing
well my family are happy and that is all I can ask for. I will see them now and
they will all be happy, when you see them smiling it is the best thing in the
world."

Club-by-club guide to the 2015-16 season

The former England under-21s ace, who signed for the East Midlands club last
summer, ran towards his family in the stands, gesturing up at the sky, after
scoring Leicester's fourth of the afternoon.

"At the minute we have my girlfriend's brother Conor Fulford living with us. He
was getting into me last night saying you need a celebration, you need to do
something for my mum.

"We were racking our brains and couldn't think. Chloe has been saying her mum
has been up there putting a few things right and she has definitely helped me
out today."

Albrighton was brought into the set-up at Leicester by former manager Nigel
Pearson, but says new boss Ranieri is settling in well after his surprise
appointment last month.

Talking to the Daily Mirror, he added: "It has been brilliant, he noticed we did
well towards the end of the season so he has not changed too much. He has come
in and put his mark on the side and come in with a couple of fresh ideas.

"We are working on them and it showed today it worked. Especially today we felt
confident attacking and felt like we could create something and get goals every
time we were going forward.

"When you feel like that and are in a confident mood it is only good for the
team."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 10, 2015 Monday 2:26 PM GMT

Terror in Turkey as twin attacks on the U.S. consulate and a police station rock
Istanbul: Six officers are killed in a wave of blasts over the country's bombing
campaign against Kurdish militants

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 871 words



     ·    WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT
     ·    Suicide bomber detonated car packed with explosives at police station
          injuring ten people including three officers
     ·    Two militants were killed and one officer died as clashes continued on
          the streets of the city throughout the night
     ·    U.S. consulate was attacked by two militants, one of them a woman who
          was captured after shoot-out with police
     ·    Four Turkish police officers were later killed in roadside bomb
          attack blamed on Kurdish militants in Sirnak province
     ·    Turkish soldier also died in another attack in Sirnak when militants
          targeted military helicopter with rocket launchers


Six members of the Turkish security forces were killed and the U.S. consulate in
Istanbul hit by a gun attack today in a new wave of violence blamed on Kurdish
and Marxist radicals as the government pressed on its air campaign against
militants.

Turkey's largest city Istanbul was shaken by twin attacks on the US consulate
and a police station that killed one senior officer, while five police were
killed in the southeastern Sirnak province in an escalating cycle of violence.

The government is waging a two-pronged 'anti-terror' offensive against Islamic
State jihadists and militants from the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) following
a spate of attacks in the country.

But so far air strikes have overwhelmingly focused on the Kurdish militants, who
have struck back by attacking the Turkish security forces and leaving a 2013
ceasefire in tatters.

Scroll down for videos

Four Turkish police officers were killed in a roadside bomb attack in the
southeastern Silopi district of Sirnak province bordering Iraq and Syria blamed
on Kurdish militants, Turkish media said.

Meanwhile, in a separate incident, one Turkish soldier was killed when Kurdish
militants attacked a military helicopter with rocket launchers as it was
transporting personnel in Sirnak's Beytussebap district, the Dogan news agency
said.

However the violence also spread to Istanbul, with the authorities blaming an
attack on the US consulate on the outlawed Marxist Revolutionary People's
Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C), and an attack on a police station on the PKK.

Ankara has on occasion linked the leftist-orientated PKK to the DHKP-C.

A suspected suicide bomber detonated a vehicle packed with explosives at a
police station in the Sultanbeyli district on the Asian side of Istanbul just
after midnight, wounding ten people, three of them police, the governor's office
said in a statement.

Clashes with police then continued throughout the night as other militants fired
on the police station. Police took cover behind walls and behind their armoured
vehicles to engage in pitched battles with the militants, television pictures
showed.

Beyazit Ceken, head of the police bomb disposal department, was wounded in the
clashes and died of his injuries in hospital, the governor's office said.

Two militants were also killed in the clashes, it added.

Meanwhile, two female militants launched a gun attack against the well-fortified
US consulate in the quiet district of Istinye on the Bosphorus on the outskirts
of Istanbul.

An operation was launched to capture the two militants and one of the attackers
- a woman - was later captured wounded, the governor's office said, while the
other female suspect was at large.

The official Anatolia news agency named her as Hatice Asik, 42, a member of the
outlawed DHKP-C who had been planning a suicide bombing.

The DHKP-C has carried out a string of attacks in Turkey in the past, including
claiming a 2013 suicide attack on the US embassy in Ankara.

The authorities have targeted suspected members of DHKP-C as well as ISIS and
the PKK in a succession of 'anti-terror' raids in the last two weeks.

A statement by a consulate spokesperson confirmed that there had been a
'security incident' near the mission.

'The Consulate General remains closed to the public until further notice,' the
statement said.

The state-run Anatolia news agency said over the weekend that so far 390
'terrorists' have been killed in the air campaign in Turkey and northern Iraq
with 400 wounded.

The PKK's insurgency for greater rights and powers for Turkey's Kurdish minority
began more than 30 years ago and has left tens of thousands dead.

The PKK is designated as a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the EU and the
United States but Ankara's Western allies have urged it to show restraint in the
onslaught.

Senior PKK figure Cemil Bayik told the BBC in an interview Monday that Turkey
was trying to protect ISIS by fighting the PKK, who are bitterly opposed to the
jihadists.

'They are doing it to limit the PKK's fight against IS. Turkey is protecting
ISIS,' he said.

According to an AFP toll, 28 members of the security forces have been killed in
violence linked to the PKK since the current crisis began.

The government has also vowed to begin strikes against ISIS jihadists in Syria
alongside US forces who have now started arriving to use the well-located
Incirlik Turkish air base in the south of the country.

Washington has long been pushing its historic ally Turkey to step up the fight
against ISIS, something Ankara had been reluctant to do.

But Turkish officials have vowed that a wider fight against ISIS will start in
the coming days.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 10, 2015 Monday 8:41 PM GMT

Turkey suffers day of terror as nine killed and US consulate attacked;
Outlawed radical Turkish Marxist group claim responsibility for a gun attack on
the US consulate in Istanbul

BYLINE: By Nabih Bulos Istanbul and agencies, video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


Turkey suffered one of its bloodiest days in recent weeks on Monday as Kurdish
insurgents launched deadly attacks in different parts of the country, including
the US consulate in the Turkish capital Istanbul, killing nine people and
leaving 11 wounded in ensuing clashes with Turkey security services.

On Monday morning, two female gunmen opened fire on the police team guarding the
U.S. consulate building in the northern Sarriyer district of Istanbul. In a
subsequent shoot-out, one of the women was wounded and apprehended while the
other escaped.

Police set up a dragnet to search for the other attacker, who was identified as
a member of the Revolutionary People's Liberation Army-Front (DHKP-C), a Turkish
Marxist splinter group first established in the 1990s. It had previously
attacked the U.S. embassy in Ankara in 2013, killing one soldier in a suicide
bomb attack.

The group released a statement on Monday claiming responsibility for the
shootings, saying its "struggle [would] continue until imperialism and its
collaborators leave our country and every parcel of our homeland is cleared of
US bases."

Local media reported the consulate was closed until further notice in the wake
of the attack, which came one day after 6 F-16's and 300 support personnel were
deployed in Turkey's Incirlik Airbase in Adana province.

Eye witnesses said the women refused to surrender before the police, according
to local media outlet Daily Sabah.

"I will never surrender to you. We've come here to take revenge for the Suruç
[attack]," shouted one of the women, a reference to a deadly bombing on July
20th in the border town of Suruc that killed 32 Kurdish and Turkish Socialist
activists en route to help rebuild the Syrian town of Kobani across the border.

Although it did not claim responsibility for the Suruc bombing, The Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) was blamed by Turkish authorities, enraging
Kurds in Turkey who accuse the government of giving Isil unfettered access along
the 500-mile Turkish-Syrian border.

It led them to unleash a campaign of bombings and shootings against Turkish
security officials. The Turkish government, meanwhile, responded by arresting
thousands of people suspected of links to Isil and the PKK.

It also launched an intensive air-campaign, pounding PKK positions in northern
Iraq and killing hundreds, and effectively ending an informal two-year ceasefire
that had suspended the decades long insurgency war with the group that has
killed more than 30,000 people.

The firefight at the consulate followed another attack early Monday morning,
when a suicide bomber rammed his explosive-filled car into a police station in
the Sultanbeyli neighbourhood on the Asian side of the Bosphorous waterway,
which bisects the capital.

Local media reported three police officers and seven civilians were slightly
wounded. However, as police continued to sift through the heavily damaged
building, gunmen shot and killed what local broadcaster CNN Turk described as a
"senior member of the bomb squad."

Monday's attacks also marked the first time militants have struck the Turkish
capital Istanbul, but others soon followed in other parts of the country.

In the southeastern province of Sirnak, five security officials were killed in
two separate attacks that targeted a police vehicle and an army helicopter.

Meanwhile, authorities blamed the PKK for shooting at a police station and a
gendarmerie base in the Kurdish-majority province of Diyarbakir, as well as a
mortar attack on a border outpost and a bombing of a bridge in Hakkari province.
No casualties were reported at time of writing.

The surge in violence comes as Turkey ramps up its battle against Isil. It has
pushed for the creation of a buffer zone in parts of Syria along the border.
Many, however, view Ankara's maneuverings as a ploy to prevent the establishment
of a self-governing Kurdish region on Syrian territory.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday

Pakistan condemns recent terrorist attacks in Afghanistan - Afghan TV

LENGTH: 110 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 11 August

In reaction to yesterday remarks by President Ghani [of Afghanistan], the
government of Pakistan has said that the country [Pakistan] is the biggest
victim of the war on terror.

A statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan says that Afghanistan
and Pakistan will further continue their relations as two friendly countries.
The statement adds that Pakistan is also a victim of terrorism itself and can
feel the pain of the Afghan people, and condemns terrorist attacks in
Afghanistan.

[Video shows the Pakistani Foreign Ministry; a news conference]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 0430 gmt 11 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday

Saudi Crown Prince in Asir to offer condolences following "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English entitled: "Vice Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
arrives in Asir," published by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA
website

Abha, 10 August: Vice Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques Prince Muhammad
Bin-Nayif Bin-Abd-al-Aziz Al Saud arrived in Asir Region on Monday [10 August]
evening to offer his condolences and sympathy to the martyrs of duty who were
killed in the terrorist bombing that claimed the lives of a number of employees
of Asir's Special Emergency Forces while performing prayer in a mosque last
Thursday.

Upon arrival at Abha Regional Airport, the Vice Custodian of the Two Holy
Mosques was greeted by Prince Faysal Bin-Khalid Bin-Abd-al-Aziz Governor of Asir
region, and a number of officials.

The Vice Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques had left Jeddah earlier in the
evening.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 10 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 5:29 PM GMT

Fenerbache star shot at in Turkey as terror attacks spread across country

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 456 words


A TURKISH international footballer has survived after his bulletproof car was
shot at in the capital of Istanbul.

FENERBACHE.ORG/AP

ATTACK: Mehmet Topal was targeted in the attack

Fenerbache star Mehmet Topal, 29, was driving home with a teammate when he was
targeted in an "armed terrorist act".

Gunfire hit the windscreen of the midfielder's car before he sped off.

He pulled his car over Istanbul's eastern Sancaktepe district and called for
police help.

Passenger Uygar Mert Zeybek was also unhurt.

Photos released but the club showed the shocking bulled damage to the
windscreen.

FENERBACHE.ORG

TARGETED: A crack on Topal's bulletproof windscreen shows the damage  The
Foreign Office

The attack comes during a tense period of violence that has struck fear across
the country.

A wave of attacks yesterday left eight people dead - including five police
officers.

Gunmen opened fire on the US consulate building after a bomb was detonated at a
police station in Istanbul.

The shooting also comes months after the Fenerbache team bus was the targeted in
another attack.

The driver wounded during the incident in the city of Trabzon.

Ex-Manchester United star Robin van Persie, Nani and former Chelsea midfielder
Raul Meireles are among Fenerbache's top stars.

Last month, Daily Star Online revealed how there was a growing threat for Brits
travelling to Turkey on holiday - following the Tunisia beach massacre.

The Foreign Office currently states there is a "high threat from terrorism"
across the country.

AP

SHOCKING: The Fenerbache player's bus was targeted earlier this year

On its website, it reads: "On 10 August, 2 people opened fire outside the US
Consulate-General in Istanbul. On 27 July there were reports of possible threats
to public transport in Istanbul, in particular the metro stations at Yenikapi,
Taksim, Osmanbey and Haciosman and stops on the Metrobus line.

"Be vigilant, monitor media reports and keep up to date with this travel advice.

"The terrorist group DHKP-C has launched a series of attacks in Istanbul in 2015
targeting the Turkish police and judiciary.

"Border crossings into Syria and nearby locations have also been targeted. On 20
July, a suicide bomber killed at least 28 people and injured over 100 others in
Suruc, Sanlurfa.

"You should exercise caution."

Related articles Brits on holiday in Turkey face 'high threat' of IS terror
attack Brit woman 'raped, murdered and set on fire' in horrific attack Turkey
terror: Wave of attacks leave eight people dead

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Turkey suffers wave of terror attacks after US jets arrive

BYLINE: Nabih Bulos

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 381 words


TURKEY was hit by a wave of terror attacks including a shoot-out at the US
consulate yesterday, a day after the country opened its Incirlik airbase to
American fighter jets.

Nine people were killed in separate incidents across Turkey, which has increased
its co-operation with the USled coalition in recent weeks, as well as launching
its own strikes against Isil (the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant) and
Kurdish militias.

On Monday morning, two female militants opened fire on police stationed in front
of the US consulate in Istanbul's Sarriyer district. One of the women was later
captured. Outlawed radical Marxist group the Revolutionary People's Liberation
Front (DHKPC), which has called Washington the "arch enemy" of the Middle East,
claimed responsibility for the attack.

It followed a bombing overnight in Istanbul's Sultanbeyli district, when a
suicide bomber rammed an explosive-filled car into a police station. One of the
attackers was killed during the bombing, while two others and a police officer
died in a subsequent firefight. The attackers' identities were not known.

Elsewhere, five security officials were killed in separate attacks in the
south-eastern province of Sirnak. Local media reported that four policemen were
killed when their armoured vehicle drove near a remotely detonated mine. They
had been en route to fill in trenches dug by the Kurdish PKK separatist group in
the area. Separately, an attack by Kurdish militants on a helicopter killed a
Turkish soldier and wounded seven more.

The attacks came as US forces ramped up their presence in the country in
preparation for a revived campaign against Isil. On Sunday, the Pentagon
announced a detachment of six F-16s had been transferred from Italy to Turkey's
Incirlik airbase. Approximately 300 personnel were also deployed to the base,
which is 100 miles from the Syrian border.

Turkey had initially shown reluctance to allow US air strikes against Isil to be
launched from Incirlik. But the Suruc bombing last month, which killed 32
Kurdish and Turkish socialist activists just six miles from the Syrian border,
and which was blamed on Isil, has prompted increased co-operation.

300 The number of US personnel who have been deployed to the Incirlik airbase in
Turkey, as well as six F-16 fighter jets

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Eight jihadists 'are plotting terror attacks in Britain'

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words


AS many as eight British jihadists are in the UK waiting to carry out a terror
attack, it was claimed today.

Around "four or five" are said to have received training in bomb and gun attacks
in Iraq and Syria and have returned here in readiness to commit an atrocity.

A further three extremists are claimed to have been radicalised here and are
preparing to strike.

The dramatic claims are made in an investigation by Sky News which used an
undercover journalist to contact jihadists in Syria using Twitter and instant
messaging apps.

The inquiry claims Islamic State is now more focused on urging British would-be
recruits to carry out "lone wolf " attacks in the UK instead of travelling to
fight in Syria.

Scotland Yard has been warning about the threat of "lone wolf " attacks for
several months, with senior officials saying around half the 700 British
extremists who have travelled to Syria have returned to the UK.

Not all of the 350 or so people are a threat but police believe there is a core
minority who may be plotting terrorist attacks.

The fictional characters created online by Sky were sent terror guidebooks by
senior jihadists in Syria - including advice on raising funds and making
weapons. The TV journalist posed as two individuals committed to jihad - one
male, one female - and exchanged online posts with two prominent extremists over
a period of four months.

One was Junaid Hussain, a 21-year-old hacker-turned-jihadist from Birmingham,
who runs the IS information and recruitment arm from Syria and the second was
his wife, Sally Jones, a former punk from Chatham, who is in Syria working
alongside Hussain in Raqqa.

Communicating on encrypted messaging sites, Jones struck up a conversation with
what she thought was an 18-year-old woman and started by asking what she wanted
to do in the UK - to cut a head off or detonate a bomb.

Jones explained she could guide the teenager through bomb-making and told her to
get materials and show her a receipt, to check she was authentic.

At that point she claimed there was another potential bomber in Scotland and two
others who had so far failed to attack.

She also claimed this Saturday's VJ commemorations to mark the end of the war
with Japan involving the Queen and the Royal Family were a target, a claim made
at the weekend in a Sunday newspaper.

Police have urged people to attend the VJ events as normal and there have been
no counter-terror arrests in connection with the claims.

The undercover reporter then travelled to the Turkish city of Urfa, near the
Syrian border, where he says he spoke to an IS recruiter.

The man claimed "four or five" English jihadists had received training in Syria
and Iraq and had already returned to Britain to launch an attack.

Asked if the training was to carry out a variety of different terror attacks, he
was adamant it was.

"Yes, yes, yes everything, all of this - using the Kalashnikov, the pistol, the
bomb, grenades and other things," he said.

"They have lessons after training that last an hour then they leave.

"We don't see too much, we are there for their protection; seeing what they are
actually doing or what they are talking about is impossible, it is forbidden."
@_jdavenport

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Extremists: IS recruiter Junaid Hussain and his wife Sally Jones posing
in Syria

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Eight jihadists 'are plotting terror attacks in Britain'

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 575 words


AS many as eight British jihadists are in the UK waiting to carry out a terror
attack, it was claimed today.

Around "four or five" are said to have received training in bomb and gun attacks
in Iraq and Syria and have returned here in readiness to commit an atrocity. A
further three extremists are claimed to have been radicalised here and are
preparing to strike.

The dramatic allegations are made in an investigation by Sky News which used an
undercover journalist to contact jihadists in Syria using Twitter and instant
messaging apps.

The inquiry claims Islamic State is now more focused on urging British would-be
recruits to carry out "lone wolf" attacks in the UK rather than travelling to
fight in Syria.

Scotland Yard has been warning about the threat of "lone wolf " attacks for
several months, with senior officials saying around half the 700 British
extremists who have travelled to Syria have returned to the UK. Not all of the
350 or so people are a threat but police believe there is a core minority who
may be plotting terrorist attacks.

The fictional characters created online by Sky were sent terror guidebooks by
senior jihadists in Syria - including advice on raising funds and making
weapons. The TV journalist posed as two individuals committed to jihad - one
male, one female - and exchanged online posts with two prominent extremists over
a period of four months.

One was Junaid Hussain, a 21-year-old hacker-turned-jihadist from Birmingham,
who runs the IS information and recruitment arm from Syria and the second was
his wife, Sally Jones, a former punk from Chatham, who is in Syria working
alongside Hussain in Raqqa. Communicating on encrypted messaging sites, Jones
struck up a conversation with what she thought was an 18-year-old woman.

She started by asking what she wanted to do in the UK - to cut a head off or
detonate a bomb. Jones explained she could guide the teenager through
bomb-making and told her to get materials and show her a receipt, to check she
was authentic.

At that point she claimed there was another potential bomber in Scotland and two
others who had so far failed to attack. She also claimed this Saturday's VJ
commemorations in London, marking the 70th anniversary of the end of the war
against Japan and involving the Queen and the royal family, were a target, a
claim also made at the weekend in a Sunday newspaper.

Police have urged people to attend the VJ events as normal and there have been
no counter-terror arrests in connection with the claims.

The undercover reporter then travelled to the Turkish city of Urfa, near the
Syrian border, where he says he spoke to an IS recruiter. The man claimed "four
or five" English jihadists had received training in Syria and Iraq and had
already returned to Britain to launch an attack. Asked if the training was to
carry out a variety of different terror attacks, he was adamant it was. "Yes,
yes, yes everything, all of this - using the Kalashnikov, the pistol, the bomb,
grenades and other things," he said. "They have lessons after training that last
an hour then they leave.

"We don't see too much, we are there for their protection; seeing what they are
actually doing or what they are talking about is impossible, it is forbidden."

The Met said in a statement today that there was "a real threat" from jihadists
who had not travelled abroad being incited to commit attacks in the UK, but it
said it constantly reviewed security measures. @_jdavenport

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Extremists: IS recruiter Junaid Hussain and his wife Sally Jones posing
in Syria

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 3:51 PM GMT

Fenerbahce's Mehmet Topal escapes death as car shot by gunmen in 'terrorist
attack'

BYLINE: Adam Skinner

LENGTH: 257 words


MEHMET TOPAL narrowly avoided death after his car came under fire in what his
club Fenerbahce described as an act of terrorism.

GETTY

Mehmet Topal was attacked by gunmen on his way home from training in Turkey

The Turkey international midfielder was on his way home from training when
targeted by gunmen but managed to escape unhurt.

The club published images that appeared to show bullet damage to the windscreen,
although it seems they did not penetrate the glass.

They also confirmed Topal, 29, had bullet-proof protection on his car.

It marks the second time Fenerbahce have been targeted in recent months, after
their team bus was shot following a clash with Rizespor in April.

A Fenerbahce statement said:"On April 4, 2015 our team bus was attacked after we
had a match with Rizespor."

"After this our player Mehmet Topal's car was shot at when the player was inside
the car.

GETTY

The Turkish international escaped unhurt despite bullet damage to the vehicle he
was in

"After the [Tuesday] morning training our player's car was attacked by an
unidentified person when he was going to his home.

"Our player was not injured by this attack because his car had bulletproof
glass.

"This attack is an armed terrorist act.

"We condemn these attacks and hope the perpetrators are found and justice is
done."

20-year-old team-mate Uygar Zeybek was also in the vehicle at the time and
escaped unharmed as well.

Related articles  Fenerbahce line up move for another Man Utd star to join
Van...  West Ham eye sensational £12m swoop for Senegal and Fenerbahce...

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 8:09 AM GMT

Turkey under ATTACK as terrorists target police stations and US consulate

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 732 words


VIOLENCE exploded in Turkey this morning as terrorists targeted police and
military across the country and armed women launched an attack on the American
consulate building in Istanbul.

EPA·AFPGETTY

A bomb blast at a police station left seven injured in Istanbul this morning

At least eight have died in a range of attacks.

Among them are four police officers believed dead in a blast in the south-east
of the country, while a soldier was killed nearby when a helicopter was shot at
by Kurdish militants.

It comes just two weeks after Turkey launched a "synchronised war on terror",
which included air strikes on Islamic State in Syria and Kurds in Iraq.

Since then the country has been on a high alert to terror attacks.

Istanbul was first targeted in the early hours of Monday when a car bomb planted
outside a police station exploded, injuring at least 10 people.

Related articles  Kurdish fighters snatch Syrian town ISIS grip days after
'being...  WARNING: British tourists told NOT to travel on buses or trains in...

It caused a fire which saw part of the three-storey building collapse.

Police inspecting the scene were then shot at by armed terrorists. It has been
reported a policeman and two terrorists died in the gunfight.

Shortly after, two women opened fire at the US building in the Sariyer district
of Istanbul, which is Turkey's largest city.

It is understood police shot back at the culprits.

A Turkish news agency reported one woman was injured and captured while hiding
in a nearby building.

The Dogan news agency said the woman was aged 51 and had served prison time for
being a suspected member of the far-leftist Revolutionary People's Liberation
Army-Front , which is virulently anti-American and is listed as a terrorist
organisation by the United States and Turkey.

Ahmet Akcay, who witnessed the attack, said one of the women fired four or five
rounds, aiming at security officials and consulate officers.

He said: "Police were shouting 'drop your bag, drop your bag'. And the woman was
saying: 'I will not surrender'.

"The police warned her again: 'Drop your bag or we will have to shoot you', and
the woman said: 'Shoot.'"

EPA

Crowds gather after the blast in the early hours of the morning

A consulate official said: "We are working with Turkish authorities to
investigate the incident. The Consulate General remains closed to the public
until further notice."

No group immediate claim of responsibility for either of the Istanbul attacks,
but US diplomatic missions and police stations have been targeted by far-left
groups in Turkey in the past.

The DHKP-C, whose members are among those detained in hundreds of arrests in the
country in recent weeks, claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing at the US
embassy in Ankara in 2013 which killed a Turkish security guard.

The helicopter attack, which took place in the southeastern province of Sirnak,
left seven other soldiers wounded.

It happened just after the aircraft took off.

As well as four police being killed in the blast at nearby Silopi, another
officer has been seriously injured.

The attack happened on an armoured police vehicle.

EXPRESS

Where the attacks have taken place in Turkey today

GETTY

The US consulate came under fire this morning

British tourists were recently warned to avoid bus stops and train stations
while visiting Turkey.

The latest incidents come after the military launched an air campaign against
Kurdish separatist PKK camps in northern Iraq on July 24, following a resurgence
of militant attacks.

brightcove.createExperiences;                      brightcove.createExperiences;

State-run Anadolu news agency said on Sunday that more than 260 militants were
killed, including senior PKK figures, and more than 400 wounded by the beginning
of this month.

The violence has left a peace process with the PKK, begun by President Tayyip
Erdogan in 2012, in tatters. Erdogan said last month the process had become
impossible, although neither side has so far declared the negotiations
definitively over.

The PKK, designated a terrorist group by Ankara, the United States and European
Union, launched its insurgency in 1984 to press for greater Kurdish rights. More
than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict.

Related articles  WARNING: British tourists told NOT to travel on buses or
trains in...  HOLIDAY TERROR ALERT: Brit tourists in Turkey face 'high'
threat...

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday

Ban condemns series of terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 141 words


United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned today's series of
terrorist attacks in Turkey, including on the security forces, both in Istanbul
and in the south-east provinces, as well as on the United States Consulate in
Istanbul.



"[The Secretary-General] is greatly concerned by the violence," said a statement
issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson in New York.

According to news reports, the attack on the US Consulate follows the overnight
bombing of an Istanbul police station and further unrest in other parts of the
country.

"The Secretary-General expresses his deepest sympathies with the victims of
today's acts, as well as with the Government and people of Turkey," the
statement said, adding that the UN chief hopes the perpetrators of the attacks
will be swiftly brought to justice.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 3:21 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo film Je Suis Charlie to premiere at Toronto film festival;
Documentary about terrorist attack headlines the latest batch of announcements
for September's festival alongside a raft of music docs and horror films

BYLINE: Benjamin Lee

SECTION: FILM

LENGTH: 268 words


A documentary about the Charlie Hebdo attack will receive its world premiere at
this year's Toronto film festival.

Related: Toronto film festival 2015 to premiere Oscar hopefuls Freeheld and
Stonewall

The latest schedule announcement from the festival team is spearheaded by Je
Suis Charlie, a film that features interviews with the surviving members of the
editorial team. It's been described as a tribute to those who "died for a
certain idea of France".

It's part of the latest batch of newly announced films for next month's
festival. The documentary strand also includes a number of music-themed titles,
including The Reflektor Tapes, which looks at the making of Arcade Fire's most
recent album, and Oscar-nominated director Amy Berg's Janis: Little Girl Blue,
which follows the troubled life of Janis Joplin.

The Midnight Madness section of the festival has also been revealed and includes
a number of anticipated genre titles. District 9 actor Sharlto Copley stars in
Hardcore, a film that will be the first ever action thriller seen entirely
through the POV of one character. There will also be world premieres for the Wes
Craven-produced thriller The Girl in the Photographs and The Devil's Candy, a
horror film from the director The Loved Ones, Sean Byrne.

The set of films joins a list of previously announced titles that include Ridley
Scott's big-budget sci-fi thriller The Martian, Julianne Moore's gay-rights
drama Freeheld, Kate Winslet comedy-drama The Dressmaker and Ethan Hawke's Chet
Baker biopic, Born to Be Blue.

The 2015 Toronto film festival runs from 10-20 September.


     ·    Full festival lineup


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 3:00 PM GMT

Fenerbahce confirm Mehmet Topal's car was shot at in attack after training;
· Topal was attacked after training in Istanbul on Tuesday · Fenerbahce condemn
attack as terrorism

BYLINE: Emre Sarigul

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 382 words


The Fenerbahce midfielder Mehmet Topal's car was shot at by unknown gunmen
following training at the Samandira Can Bartu grounds on Tuesday.

Related: Hertha Berlin say team bus was shot at before German Cup match

Topal was accompanied by the Fenerbahce youth player Uygar Mert Zeybek in his
vehicle when the attack occurred, sources close to the club confirmed.

The two players were near the toll booth on the main road from Samandira when
the car was fired upon. The car's bulletproof glass prevented the gunshot from
penetrating through the window and causing injury to either player.

Both players gave statements to the police following the incident but the
assailants were yet to be identified or caught.

Fenerbahce released a statement shortly after the attack: "This was a terrorist
attack. We condemn these armed attacks on our players and hope justice will
prevail. Our players Mehmet Topal and Uygar Mert Zeybek were fortunate to be
travelling in a vehicle with bulletproof glass which prevented serious injury."

Topal was also involved in the last armed attack aimed at Fenerbahce. Last April
the team bus came under armed attack on its way to the Trabzon airport following
their 5-1 away win at Caykur Rizespor in Turkey's Super Lig.

The driver of the bus, Ufuk Kiran, was shot and taken the hospital following the
attack. Remarkably Topal and his team-mates managed to escape without any
serious injuries despite the bus travelling at high-speed.

The Turkish football federation reacted to the incident by suspending Super Lig
and Turkish Cup matches for a week.

The federation president, Yildirim Demiroren, said: "We believe the incident was
a terrorist attack, targeting not only Fenerbahce but Turkish sports. We decided
to postpone all league and cup games for a week. We took this decision because
we attach importance to the players' psychology."

The governor of Trabzon, Abdil Celil Oz, said two suspects - one aged 37 and the
other 27 - had been detained shortly after however neither were charged and the
case remains unsolved.

The Super Lig season is set to start next week but if the Turkish football
federation take similar measures to the last armed attack the start date could
end up being delayed. The federation has yet to released an official statement
regarding the incident.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 3:33 PM GMT

Isis recruiters 'called on homegrown jihadists to carry out lone wolf attacks on
VJ Day';
The terror group said they were planning an attack on the Queen during the VJ
Day commemorations

BYLINE: Caroline Mortimer

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 298 words


Isis fighters are being urged not to go to the so-called caliphate and instead
remain in Britain to carry out "lone wolf" attacks - amid claims this weekend's
VJ commemorations involving the Queen were a target.

Fictitious online profiles created by Sky News made contact with jihadist
recruiters who sent them terror guidebooks from Syria, including advice on
raising funds and making weapons.

The undercover journalists were told that Isis already had a number of potential
bombers in the UK, some of whom had been trained in Syria.

Sky claims that one of the potential targets is the VJ celebrations in London on
Saturday.

Read More:Isis has built a global brand using Nutella, celebrity and social
mediaUS destroys Isis headquarters after 'moron' jihadist posts photo to social
mediaAnonymous releases list of Isis-linked Twitter accounts, asks social
network to remove users

In one exchange the journalist - pretending to be an 18-year-old girl - is asked
if she wants to cut off a head or make a bomb.

The jihadi then said she would talk the fictional girl through how to make a
bomb, including where to get the materials and how to put it together.

During conversations on Twitter and in chatrooms, one jihadist said that they
were targeting the Queen and the royal family at the VJ commemorations.

The Mail on Sunday revealed that MI5 and police were racing against time to
thwart the VJ day assassination plot which is believed to be being orchestrated
from Syria.

The Queen, Prince Charles, David Cameron, various dignitaries and more than
1,000 veterans of the Far East campaign and their families will be in attendance
at the event in Westminster Abbey. In pictures: The rise of Isis

The jihadists also said they had a would be bomber in Scotland and two others
who had so far failed to act.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 5:40 PM GMT

Mehmet Topal survives being shot at in 'terrorist attack' while driving home
from Fenerbahce training

BYLINE: OLIVER TODD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: SPORTS NEWS

LENGTH: 432 words



     ·    Fenerbahce midfielder Mehmet Topal was shot at after a training
          session
     ·    Turkish club said that incident was a 'terrorist attack' on their
          players
     ·    Topal survived in his bullet-proof protected car along with a
          team-mate
     ·    Robin van Persie and Nani moved to join Fenerbahce this summer


Fenerbahce midfielder Mehmet Topal had shots fired at him on his drive home from
training on Tuesday, with the Turkish club condemning the incident as a
'terrorist attack'.

The 29-year-old Turkish international survived behind the bullet-proof glass of
his Mercedes G class and both he and team-mate Uygar Mert Zeybek escaped
unscathed, the club confirmed.

Fenerbahce published photos of the car's windscreen that appeared to show bullet
damage, although it had not penetrated the glass.

Scroll down for video

MEHMET TOPAL PROFILE

Defensive midfielder Mehmet Topal has been at Fenerbahce since signing from
Valencia in 2012. He has 43 caps for the Turkish national side and has also
played for Dardanelspor and Galatasaray in the past.

The 29-year-old earns around £27,000 a week and he started all-but two games
last season to help Fener to second spot in the Super Lig.

A Fenerbahce statement read: 'This attack is an armed terrorist act. We condemn
these attacks and hope the perpetrators are found and justice is done.'

The shooting attack is the second against a Fenerbahce target this year.

The team's bus came under armed attack on April 4, as it drove to the airport
following an away league match at Caykur Rizespor.

On that occasion, the bus driver was wounded in the gun attack and taken to
hospital, with a side window shattered and damage caused to the front
windscreen. Football in Turkey was suspended for a week.

As news of the attack on Topal's car spread, the Turkish Football Federation
expressed its shock.

'This attack is not only on an eminent player of our club and national team, it
is deemed an attack on Turkish football,' said the federation.

Fenerbahce, the Turkish league runners-up last season, this summer signed Nani
and Robin van Persie from Manchester United.

It is the second time in a week that a European football side have come under
fire after Hertha Berlin's coach was shot at on their trip to Arminia Bielefeld
for a German Cup tie.

The Bundesliga club reported that a motorcyclist overtook the bus as it was
headed to pick up the players before the man threatened the driver by shaking
his fist and firing shots from a pistol.

Only the driver was on board at the time and no one was injured during the
incident.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 3:06 PM GMT

Married British ISIS commanders dubbed 'Mr and Mrs Terror' claim bombers are
ready to carry out 'lone wolf' terror attacks in the UK - including VJ Day plot
targeting the Queen

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON and RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1132 words



     ·    ISIS in Syria is urging British jihadis to bring carnage to streets of
          UK
     ·    They no longer urge them to travel to Syria, but say stay and fight at
          home
     ·    British jihadis Junaid Hussain and Sally Jones sent bomb-making
          manuals to undercover reporters posing as ISIS recruits
     ·    Former fighter says five recruits have returned to UK to launch
          strikes


Chilling messages from two British jihadists in Syria reveal just how close ISIS
now is to launching a terror attack on the streets of the UK.

Details of new plots were revealed in messages from former computer hacker
Junaid Hussain and his wife Sally Jones, an unemployed mother-of-two, who joined
ISIS in 2013.

The pair - dubbed Mr and Mrs Terror after repeatedly being caught trying to
incite carnage - told undercover reporters posing as wannabe jihadis to carry
out so-called 'Lone Wolf' attacks in Britain and even sent them bomb-making
guidebooks.

The militants also revealed that the Queen and the Royal Family would be
targeted with pressure cooker bombs at this Saturday's VJ commemorations.

Another terror chief has meanwhile claimed that four or five British recruits
who trained in Syria have now returned to Britain to launch strikes.

Scroll down for video

Sky News  reporters posing as male and female jihadis on Twitter and in
chatrooms contacted the two British ISIS militants - Hussain, a 21-year-old from
Birmingham, and Jones, a former punk from Chatham in Kent.

Hussain runs the ISIS recruitment arm in the terror group's de facto capital of
Raqqa in Syria and is a top-five target for the U.S. Secret Service. Jones is
working alongside her husband in Raqqa recruiting female militants.

In a series of conversations on encrypted messaging sites over a four months,
the reporters convinced Jones that they wanted to make a bomb.

Jones then gave detailed instructions on how to construct a pressure cooker
explosive and insisted on seeing receipts to prove they had bought the
materials.

She revealed she had another potential bomber in Scotland and two others who had
so far failed to carry out attacks and urged the undercover reporters to start a
gang themselves.

She later sent details of the plot to attack the Royal family at the VJ
commemorations on Saturday, which were passed on to the Metropolitan Police's
anti-terror branch.

One reporter later travelled to the Turkish city of Urfa near the Syrian border
to meet an ISIS security chief tasked with looking after foreign jihadists while
they underwent terror training.

He claimed four or five recruits were British who had returned to Britain to
carry out an attack.

The Mail on Sunday revealed at the weekend that a specific threat was made
against the Queen, triggering an urgent review of security arrangements for next
weekend's events.

Other members of the Royal Family, including Prince Charles, who is identified
in intelligence reports as another possible target, are also due to attend.

They will join Prime Minister David Cameron, assorted dignitaries, more than
1,000 veterans of the Far East campaign and their families, and serving members
of the Armed Forces.

And with thousands of members of the public expected to line the streets around
Whitehall and Westminster Abbey, police fear enormous potential for carnage.

The plot is understood to involve a device similar to that used in the 2013
Boston Marathon bombing which killed three people and injured more than 260.

News of the VJ Day plot has forced the police and MI5 into a frantic race
against time to thwart the assassination attempt.

Such an attack, if successful, would cause high casualties and represent the
realisation of long-held fears of a terror 'spectacular' by home-based Muslim
extremists.

After the Tunisian beach massacre in June, in which 38 tourists died, David
Cameron spoke of the 'serious threat' of an attack on home soil.

Although there have not been any successful terror attacks in Britain since Lee
Rigby was killed outside Woolwich Barracks in May 2013, intelligence chiefs have
foiled a number of plots.

Last November, police stopped an alleged plan to launch an attack on Remembrance
Sunday after arresting four men in London and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire.

Last month, police chiefs warned officers not to wear their uniforms to and from
work as Islamic terrorists were looking to target officers.

Elite armed officers then carried out a training exercise for a long-drawn out
attack carried out in London's Underground system, on the River Thames and in
the streets.

MR AND MRS TERROR: HOW AN UNEMPLOYED MOTHER-OF-TWO FROM KENT MARRIED A
BIRMINGHAM COMPUTER NERD AND THEY BECAME ISIS CHIEFS

The couple behind fresh claims ISIS is plotting attacks on UK soil are unlikely
jihadists.

Sally Jones is a 45-year-old former punk band guitarist who has spent her life
on benefits. Her toyboy husband Junaid Hussain, 21, is an ex-computer hacker
from Birmingham who she met online.

In recent years, Jones had become sucked into a fantasy online world, adopting
alternate personas and calling herself Skya and Catgel. She starting
contributing to forums on conspiracy theories, witchcraft and black magic.

Hussain was meanwhile the leader of a shadowy computer hacking group known as
Team Poison, which had claimed responsibility for hacking attacks on
politicians, businesses and a humanitarian agency.

He was jailed in 2012 for stealing personal information from Tony Blair and
publishing it online. He also admitted making hoax calls to the Metropolitan
Police anti-terrorist hotline.

After the pair starting exchanging messages online, Jones seems to have become
radicalised and later claimed Britain and America were 'terrorist' nations.

It is unknown whether the couple, who are believed to have Jones's son with
them, travelled to Syria together, but Jones at least is thought to have sneaked
into ISIS-held territory at the end of 2013.

She later posted a message online claiming she wanted to behead Christians with
a 'blunt knife'.

It is a million miles from her former life in the Medway towns.

In the early 1990s she was the lead guitarist in an all-girl rock band called
Krunch who played a series of gigs in the South East.

A clip of one of her performances posted online shows her with a shock of blonde
hair and wearing a leather mini-skirt. In recent years she developed an interest
in art, attempting to sell fantasy pictures as well as T-shirts, mugs and key
rings through a niche website.

Last year, her brother Patrick, 52, who runs his own paving company, said his
family were deeply shocked by her conversion to radical Islam.

Speaking at his £500,000 home in Oxted, Surrey, he said: 'This is a very
upsetting and distressing time for my family and I just don't want them to be a
part of it. She fell in love and went away.'

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 10:33 AM GMT

Married British ISIS commanders dubbed 'Mr and Mrs Terror' claim bombers are
ready to carry out 'lone wolf' terror attacks in the UK - including VJ Day plot
targeting the Queen

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON and RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: ISIS

LENGTH: 956 words



     ·    ISIS in Syria is urging British jihadis to bring carnage to streets of
          UK
     ·    They no longer urge them to travel to Syria, but say stay and fight at
          home
     ·    ISIS chiefs Junaid Hussain and Sally Jones gave advice on making bombs
     ·    Former fighter says five recruits have returned to UK to launch
          strikes


Chilling messages from two British jihadists in Syria reveal just how close ISIS
now is to launching a terror attack on the streets of the UK.

Details of new plots were revealed in messages from former computer hacker
Junaid Hussain and his wife Sally Jones, an unemployed mother-of-two, who joined
ISIS in 2013.

The pair - dubbed Mr and Mrs Terror after repeatedly being caught trying to
incite carnage - told undercover reporters posing as wannabe jihadis to carry
out so-called 'Lone Wolf' attacks in Britain and even sent them bomb-making
guidebooks.

The militants also revealed that the Queen and the Royal Family would be
targeted with pressure cooker bombs at this Saturday's VJ commemorations.

Another terror chief has meanwhile claimed that four or five British recruits
who trained in Syria have now returned to Britain to launch strikes.

Scroll down for video

Sky News  reporters posing as male and female jihadis on Twitter and in
chatrooms contacted the two British ISIS militants - Hussain, a 21-year-old from
Birmingham, and Jones, a former punk from Chatham in Kent.

Hussain runs the ISIS recruitment arm in the terror group's de facto capital of
Raqqa in Syria and is a top-five target for the U.S. Secret Service.

Jones is working alongside her husband in Raqqa recruiting female militants. The
pair's positions as ISIS recruiters has led to them being dubbed 'Mr and Mrs
Terror'.

In a series of conversations on encrypted messaging sites over a four months,
the reporters convinced Jones that they wanted to make a bomb.

Jones then gave detailed instructions on how to construct a pressure cooker
explosive and insisted on seeing receipts to prove they had bought the
materials.

She revealed she had another potential bomber in Scotland and two others who had
so far failed to carry out attacks and urged the undercover reporters to start a
gang themselves.

She later sent details of the plot to attack the Royal family at the VJ
commemorations on Saturday, which were passed on to the Metropolitan Police's
anti-terror branch.

One reporter later travelled to the Turkish city of Urfa near the Syrian border
to meet an ISIS security chief tasked with looking after foreign jihadists while
they underwent terror training.

He claimed four or five recruits were British who had returned to Britain to
carry out an attack.

The Mail on Sunday revealed at the weekend that a specific threat was made
against the Queen, triggering an urgent review of security arrangements for next
weekend's events.

Other members of the Royal Family, including Prince Charles, who is identified
in intelligence reports as another possible target, are also due to attend.

They will join Prime Minister David Cameron, assorted dignitaries, more than
1,000 veterans of the Far East campaign and their families, and serving members
of the Armed Forces.

And with thousands of members of the public expected to line the streets around
Whitehall and Westminster Abbey, police fear enormous potential for carnage.

The plot is understood to involve a device similar to that used in the 2013
Boston Marathon bombing which killed three people and injured more than 260.

News of the VJ Day plot has forced the police and MI5 into a frantic race
against time to thwart the assassination attempt.

Such an attack, if successful, would cause high casualties and represent the
realisation of long-held fears of a terror 'spectacular' by home-based Muslim
extremists.

MR AND MRS TERROR: HOW AN UNEMPLOYED MOTHER-OF-TWO FROM KENT MARRIED COMPUTER
HACKER AND BECAME ISIS RECRUITERS

The couple behind fresh claims ISIS is plotting attacks on UK soil are unlikely
jihadists.

Sally Jones is a 45-year-old former punk band guitarist who has spent her life
on benefits. Her toyboy husband Junaid Hussain, 21, is an ex-computer hacker
from Birmingham who she met online.

In recent years, Jones had become sucked into a fantasy online world, adopting
alternate personas and calling herself Skya and Catgel. She starting contributed
to forums on conspiracy theories, witchcraft and black magic.

Hussain was meanwhile the leader of a shadowy computer hacking group known as
Team Poison.

After the pair starting exchanging messages online, Jones seems to have become
radicalised and later claimed Britain and America were 'terrorist' nations.

It is unknown whether the couple, who are believed to have Jones's son with
them, travelled to Syria together, but Jones at least is thought to have sneaked
into ISIS-held territory at the end of 2013.

She later posted a message online claiming she wanted to behead Christians with
a 'blunt knife'.

It is a million miles from her former life in the Medway towns.

In the early 1990s she was the lead guitarist in an all-girl rock band called
Krunch who played a series of gigs in the South East.

A clip of one of her performances posted online shows her with a shock of blonde
hair and wearing a leather mini-skirt. In recent years she developed an interest
in art, attempting to sell fantasy pictures as well as T-shirts, mugs and key
rings through a niche website.

Last year, her brother Patrick, 52, who runs his own paving company, said his
family were deeply shocked by her conversion to radical Islam.

Speaking at his £500,000 home in Oxted, Surrey, he said: 'This is a very
upsetting and distressing time for my family and I just don't want them to be a
part of it. She fell in love and went away.'

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Eight die as terror attacks hit Turkey

BYLINE: JOEL TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 200 words


AT LEAST eight people were killed in a wave of separate attacks in Turkey
yesterday which saw the US consulate in Istanbul come under fire. Four police
officers were killed by a roadside bomb in S¸irnak and a soldier died when
Kurdish separatists opened fire on a military helicopter in the same province.

In Istanbul, an officer was killed when a car bomb exploded at a police station,
injuring three other workers and seven civilians. Two gunmen later died in a
firefight with security forces.

Meanwhile, on the other side of the city, the US consulate came under attack
from two women.

Police detained a 51-year-old female, said to be a member of an anti-American
revolutionary group which is listed as a terrorist organisation by the US and
Turkey.

'We are working with Turkish authorities to investigate the incident and we will
be closed to the public until further notice,' a consulate official said.

The attacks took place weeks after Ankara ordered a crackdown on Islamic State,
Kurdish and far-left militants. The Nato member has been on a heightened state
of alert since launching air strikes last month against IS fighters in Syria and
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militants in northern Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 2:54 PM GMT

Fenerbahce midfielder Mehmet Topal survives gun attack on car as club condemn "
terrorist" storm;
"This attack is a terrorist attack. We condemn this situation. We want our
police to find this person or people as soon as possible," read a club statement

BYLINE: By Liam Prenderville

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,NEWS

LENGTH: 181 words


Fenerbahce midfielder Mehmet Topal escaped unhurt after being shot at in his car
on Tuesday.

The 29-year-old was leaving the club's training ground when his car was attacked
but bulletproof glass in the vehicle prevented injury.

It is the second time the Turkish giants have been the victims of such an attack
in recent months, after their team bus was shot at after their clash with
Rizespor in April.

A club statement confirmed the attack and insisted terrorism was behind it.

"On April 4, 2015 our team bus was attacked after we had a match with Rizespor,"
it read.

"After this our player Mehmet Topal's car was shot at when the player was inside
the car.

"After the [Tuesday] morning training our player's car was attacked by an
unidentified person when he was going to his home.

"Our player was not injured by this attack because his car had bulletproof
glass.

"This attack is a terrorist attack. We condemn this situation. We want our
police to find this person or people as soon as possible.

Fenerbahce get their Super Lig campaign underway when they host Eskisehirspor on
Friday evening.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday

Afghan paper slams security bodies for failing to foil recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 595 words


Text of editorial headlined "Public opinion's questions" by Afghan independent
secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 10 August

A number of TV channels have shown an explosive-laden vehicle, which caused the
tragedy in the Shah Shahid area of Kabul on Friday [7 August] night, was driving
around [streets]. The vehicle had driven around Kabul for hours before it
reached Shah Shahid. The vehicle might have been loaded with explosives either
in Kabul or outside the city and then sent to kill people in the target area.

The public asked how terrorists can bring an explosive-laden vehicle to Kabul,
drive around streets and then reach their target area. Is Kabul a city without a
government? Are there not any intelligence services in this city to stop
terrorists?

How can terrorists enter an area which is protected under tight security
measures? Some suicide terrorists attacked a NATO camp close to the Kabul
airport and fought a battle with the guards of the camp and security forces for
hours. How could the terrorists cross security barriers? This is not the first
time they do so. They have crossed security barriers several times and caused
tragedies.

The violent terrorist attack on the students of the Police Academy is very
questionable. One of the injured students told a number of news agencies that
the Police Academy commander had kept students, who were late, behind the
academy gate as a punishment. Apparently the students had guessed that it was
risky for a crowd of students to stay behind the academy gate. However, their
pleas did not help and the commander did not let them come in. Keeping the
students behind the gate caused most of them to become victims of the terrorist
attack.

The three Kabul terrorist attacks on Friday night need to be investigated
seriously. They should be investigated as to why the Police Academy commander
had not permitted the students to enter the academy. Punishment of the students,
who were late, was also possible inside the academy building. Why did the
academy commander keep all of them behind the gate? Did he not know that the
presence of a large number of students wearing police uniforms behind the gate
could be a favourable target for terrorists? The Interior Ministry must look
into this issue and inform the public of the findings.

The Qasaba terrorist attack should also be investigated. How could terrorists
reach the US army camp? Was it the Taleban infiltration that made it possible or
did the attackers lure some persons by paying money and cross the security
barriers? The country's intelligence service must talk to the people of
Afghanistan regarding this issue. People expect the chief of the National
Directorate of Security [NDS] or the interior minister to give explanations
about the issue and at least investigate one or two security officials who are
responsible for the area.

So far nobody has been ready to answer these questions of the public. Why can an
explosive-laden vehicle drive around Kabul for hours and then reach the target?
This is a question that needs to be answered. There is no security in Kabul at
all. The reputation of government organizations and agencies has been damaged
severely.

A number of people in Kabul think that security agencies are not capable of
protecting their lives. This is why every day, a queue of passport applicants is
getting longer and the number of people fleeing the country is on the rise.
Security agencies must give proper answers to the above-mentioned questions to
convince the public a little bit.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 10 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Cornish Guardian

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday

Bodmin rallies in full support of terror attack victim Cheryl

SECTION: NEWS:CHARITY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409  words


BODMIN residents are rallying together to offer financial support for terrorist
victim Cheryl Mellor.

Thousands of pounds have already been raised through  Crowdfunder and local
events, and in October another  fundraiser will be held at Bodmin Town Football
Club featuring two local bands, Johnny and the Bluelights and Rickety Bones.

Mrs Mellor is recovering at Derriford Hospital in Plymouth after being seriously
injured during the terrorist Tunisia terror attack in June.

Her husband, Stephen, was killed trying to shield his wife from an IS gunman,
who murdered 38 people at the holiday resort near Sousse.

Mr Mellor's funeral was held at St Petroc's Church in Bodmin last month, which
Cheryl attended with the aid of a wheelchair.

A Crowdfunder appeal set up by  Robyn Brenton, who works at Bodmin Hospital, has
reached more than £5,000, and a further £1,000 has been raised from a bingo
session at Syd's Bar and from the sale of raffle tickets during Bodmin Heritage
Day.

Steve Davies, who worked with Cheryl at Bodmin Hospital,  and was the secretary
of St Lawrence's Social Club before it closed,  is involved in some of the
fundraising events.

The retired charge nurse said: "Cheryl was my staff nurse at the hospital and
she was an excellent nurse; what happened in Tunisia was a terrible tragedy.

"When we were selling the raffle tickets, people couldn't give enough; they were
handing over £20 and £30. We ran out of tickets pretty quickly, but people still
wanted to donate to Cheryl's fund, and were putting £10 in the bucket, even
though there were no tickets left."

Mr Davies said that was typical of the people of Bodmin.

"The generosity of Bodmin residents is amazing, and it always has been. I've
lived here for 50 years, and people have always been fantastic when it comes to
donating money for causes," he said.

He added local businesses, including The Lighthouse, had also donated generous
prizes.

Rob Hancock, who plays with rock 'n' roll band Rickety Bones, who will be
donating their services for free on October 3 at the football club, said:
"Cheryl has not  only   been left to face the loss of her husband but also has
to recover from her physical injuries.

"We are holding a Music for Cheryl night, with all proceeds going to her fund.

Tickets for the event are £5 and are available from Bodmin Football Club, Martin
& Budge in Fore Street, Stan May's   Convenience Store, Town   End, Bodmin or by
calling Rob   Hancock  on 01208  76371.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT FOR CHERYL: Cheryl Mellor pictured recovering in a Tunisian
hospital shortly after the attack in June.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Terrorists' in Turkey attack;
In brief

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 62 words


A car carrying Fenerbahce's Turkish international midfielder Mehmet Topal was
shot at yesterday in what the club termed a "terrorist attack". The 29-year-old
was returning home from a training session when he was targeted. Fenerbahce also
published a picture of a windscreen that appeared to show bullet damage, but the
club said Topal had reinforced glass on the vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'Terrorists' in Turkey attack;
In brief

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 51 words


A car carrying Fenerbahce's Turkish international midfielder Mehmet Topal was
shot at yesterday in what the club termed a "terrorist attack". The 29-year-old
was returning home from a training session when he was targeted. Fenerbahce also
published a picture of a windscreen that appeared to show bullet damage.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

FENERBAHCE ACE SHOT AT IN 'TERRORIST' ATTACK

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 118 words


TURKEY international midfielder Mehmet Topal survived his car being shot at
yesterday in what his club Fenerbahce have called a "terrorist attack".

The 29-year-old was returning home from a training session when he was targeted.

Fenerbahce also published a picture of a windscreen that appeared to show bullet
damage, but it was apparent the bullet had not penetrated the glass. The club
said Topal (above) had bulletproof protection on the vehicle.

The motive is unclear but, in a statement, Fenerbahce said: "This is an armed
terrorist act. We condemn these attacks and hope the perpetrators are found and
justice is done."

The club said 20-year-old player Uygar Mert Zeybek was also in the car and was
unharmed.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday

Glasgow terror recruit 'set for home attack'

BYLINE: Jody Harrison

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words


SCOTS have been warned to be on their guard as Police Scotland investigate
reports that a woman in Glasgow is poised to commit a terrorist attack.

The claim was uncovered by a team of investigative journalists who used fake
identities to interact with Islamic State (IS) recruiters on the internet.

Assistant Chief Constable Ruaraidh Nicolson, of the Organised Crime, Counter
Terrorism and Safer Communities department, said that the reports were being
taken seriously and that communities should remain alert for any suspicious
activity.

The identity of the Scottish IS supporter has not been revealed, but the case
bears similarities with that of former private schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood, also
from Glasgow, who is believed to have been radicalised through online contact.

Over a four-month period the team, led by Sky News, invented a male and female
character and made contact with IS recruiters using Twitter, before moving to
anonymous online messaging services. It led them to a married couple, who
claimed they were both from Britain and living in Raqqa, Syria, the capital of
IS-held territory. Through the communication it was found that a 21-year-old,
originally from Kent, recruits women and girls from Britain.

The investigators claimed she sent a bomb-making manual to the team's female
character via a secure-sharing site and told them she had another girl in
Glasgow ready to attack.

The team said she mentioned the Royal Family and August 15 - the date of the VJ
commemorations in London. She also told the character that two other girls had
been recruited but had failed to carry out a promised attack.

There is now a fear that terrorist recruiters are now insisting their targets
stay in their home countries and plot to carry out attacks rather than join them
in the Middle East.

ACC Nicolson said: "Police Scotland is working with The Metropolitan Police
following media reporting about potential terrorist activity in the United
Kingdom. The threat level in the UK remains at 'severe' which means an attack is
highly likely.

"Against that backdrop Police Scotland constantly assesses and reviews its
response to the threat from terrorism with policing operations being shaped
appropriately and based on the latest intelligence."

He added: "The latest media reporting has been included within our day-to-day
considerations. I would like to reassure the public that we are working closely
with our security partners and we remain alert to all terrorist threats that may
manifest here or where individuals overseas may seek to direct or inspire others
to commit attacks in and against the UK.

"I would ask that communities remain alert for any suspicious activity and
report it to the police so we can take the appropriate action required.

"Through the excellent relationship we have with the diverse communities across
the country, Police Scotland and our partners remain committed to reducing the
risk associated with people becoming involved in, or supporting terrorist or
extremist behaviour."

Ali Khan, executive chairman of Roshni which supports ethnic minority
communities, said there needed to be a "major and ongoing social media campaign"
to counter the messages from IS. He said it was not surprising that people from
Glasgow could be the targets of recruiters. He added: "With regards to there
being young people from Glasgow, why would Glasgow be any different from any
other part of Scotland or UK?

"Unfortunately there are young vulnerable perhaps misguided young people all
over UK who are seen as targets to be manipulated."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 12, 2015 Wednesday 10:03 AM GMT

Two former New York City college students accused of plotting to help ISIS carry
out an attack in the city are indicted on terror charges

BYLINE: KATE PICKLES FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words



     ·    Munther Omar Saleh and Fareed Mumuni discussed pressure cooker bomb
     ·    Pair, 20 and 21, charged with conspiracy to provide material support
          to ISIS
     ·    Both accused of assault and conspiracy to assault federal officers


Two former New York City college students have been indicted on terror charges,
accused of plotting to help ISIS carry out an attack in the city.

Munther Omar Saleh, of Queens, is accused of plotting a terrorist attack in New
York City with a pressure cooker bomb.

The 20-year-old was charged with attempt and conspiracy to provide material
support to Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, as well as assault and
conspiracy to assault federal officers.

Scroll down for video

Fareed Mumuni, 21, is also with attempt and conspiracy to provide material
support to ISIL, assault and conspiracy to assault federal officers, and
attempted murder of federal officers after repeatedly stabbing an FBI agent with
a kitchen knife.

The weapon failed to penetrate the agent's body armor, and he suffered only
minor injuries, according to a criminal complaint.

The pair have been in custody since June. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn
announced on Tuesday that a grand jury had returned an indictment.

'These indictments remind us of the dangers faced by law enforcement and the
community alike. The FBI remains vigilant in its pursuit against violence and
restrained in its apprehension of such offenders,' said FBI assistant
director-in-charge, Diego Rodriguez.

Prosecutors say the Saleh had researched recipes for homemade explosives and
looked up city landmarks on the Internet.

They also say he and Mumuni discussed how to build a pressure cooker bomb.

Saleh's attorney said he will plead not guilty at the pair's arraignment on
August 20.

A lawyer for Mumuni did not respond to a message seeking comment but has
previously denied his client is an Islamic State sympathizer.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 12, 2015 Wednesday 11:55 AM GMT

Female ISIS bomber 'is in Glasgow and going to launch attack at Saturday's VJ
commemorations';
Please note: this story is from 2015 and has been shared by readers on Facebook
in the wake of 2017 terror attacks

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS; Version:2

LENGTH: 1013 words


A female ISIS terrorist is currently in Glasgow and is ready to launch a
devastating attack at Saturday's VJ commemorations, it has been claimed.

Please note: this story is from 2015 and has been shared by readers on Facebook
in the wake of 2017 terror attacks.

British ISIS recruiterSally Jones, known as Umm Hussain, made the shock claims
to an undercover investigator.

The terrorist - who Jones claimed is "very good" - is based in the Scottish city
after being trained abroad.

During online conversations with theSky Newsreporter, Jones - originally from
Chatham in Kent - said: "The only serious girl I've met is this sister from
Glasgow. I mean, she's really gonna do it."

Jones then worryingly revealed the attack will take place at this Saturday's VJ
commemorations which involve the Queen.

Stuart Ramsay, Sky News chief correspondent, said about Jones:

"She sent a bomb-making manual to our female character via a secure-sharing
site, telling us that she had another girl in Glasgow ready to attack.

"Specifically, she mentioned the Royal Family and the date of August 15 - the
day of the VJ commemorations in London."

It is feared ISIS terrorists have been in Britain for 6 WEEKS - with their
trainer warning an attack 'will happen'.

It emerged yesterday that up to seven British jihadis have been trained by ISIS
and arenow back in the UK.

The man who trained them was a member of ISIS' feared internal security - the
terror group's equivalent of The Gestapo.

He claims they were trained abroad before returning to Britain six weeks ago
with a mission.

They have been trained to use grenades, make bombs and use other weapons.

It is believed to be part of a new strategy with the terror group urging British
jihadis to carry out attacks at home rather than travelling to Iraq or Syria.

The shock claims were uncovered by an exclusive online sting by Sky News using
fake social media accounts to unmask Islamic State recruiters.

An undercover investigator spoke to a terrorist responsible for training some of
those believed to be in Britain.

He claimed they had received training to help launch an attack.

He said: "Yes, yes, yes everything, all of this - using the Kalashnikov, the
pistol, the bomb, grenades and other things.

"They have lessons after training that last an hour then they leave.

"We don't see too much, we are there for their protection; seeing what they are
actually doing or what they are talking about is impossible, it is forbidden."

The IS chiefs - a married British couple called Junaid and Umm Hussain - told
undercover reporters that a girl in Glasgow was poised to murder and maim using
an improvised explosive device (IED).

Over a four-month period, Sky News invented and developed characters and
employed a freelance investigative reporter to "run" the characters - one male
and one female.

Police Scotland

The news comes after a newspaper claimed that British jihadis plotted to blow up
the Queen next weekend at an event to mark the anniversary of the end of the
Second World War.

Police and MI5 were involved in a frantic race against time to thwart the
assassination plot being orchestrated from Syria by Islamic State commanders.

The extremists aimed to strike on Saturday by exploding a deadly pressure cooker
bomb during events in Central London to mark the 70th anniversary of VJ Day -
Victory in Japan, according to the Mail on Sunday.

On Saturday, the Queen, accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh - a veteran of the
war in the Pacific - will first attend a service at St Martin-in-the-Fields in
Trafalgar Square.

From there dignitaries will move to Horse Guards Parade for a traditional
military 'drumhead' service, a flypast and a wreath-laying ceremony before the
set-piece VJ Day parade of veterans and current troops down Whitehall to
Westminster Abbey.

The Metropolitan Police's Specialist Operations unit issued a statement saying:
"The police have for some time recognised, and spoken about, the fact that the
fight against terrorism has a number of challenges; the real threat from people
returning as trained terrorists from Syria and Iraq; the equal threat of those
who have not travelled being encouraged and incited to commit attacks in the UK
and the young and vulnerable being enticed out to Syria through internet based
grooming.

"The police, together with our security partners, remain alert to terrorist
threats that may manifest here or where individuals overseas may seek to direct
or inspire others to commit attacks in and against the UK.

It is always helpful when journalists share with us information, as Sky did in
this case, that could indicate terrorist or criminal activity and we will
investigate and take action where appropriate.

"The UK threat level from international terrorism remains severe. We would like
to reassure the public that we constantly review security plans for public
events, taking into account specific intelligence and the wider threat.

ISIS execute bound men with explosives on hillside in sickening new video

"Our priority is the safety and security for all those attending or involved,
the public are encouraged to continue with their plans to attend or take part in
events as normal.

"We would also like to reiterate our long-standing advice to remain vigilant and
alert. As ever we would urge the public to get in touch to report anything
suspicious by calling the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321 or
in an emergency by calling 999."

ISIS recently released a sickening video showing their latest appalling
execution technique - forcing men to kneel on explosives and then blowing them
up.

The footage shows gleeful and proud militants digging up the ground and planting
explosives on the dirt.

A group of 10 men are then led by the black-clad terrorists to the site and
forced onto their knees.

The killers then flee the site and detonate the explosives, killing the victims
in a huge blast.

Before dying, each of the prisoners were forced to admit their offences before
being brutally murdered.

It was reportedly filmed in Nangarhar in Afghanistan, where ISIS is trying to
increase its power base.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 12, 2015 Wednesday 11:04 AM GMT

ISIS bombers 'have been in Britain for 6 weeks' as their trainer warns 'attack
WILL happen';
The terrorists are said to have been trained with a variety of weapons and have
a 'mission'

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1058 words


ISIS terrorists feared to be in Britain may have been here for 6 WEEKS - as
their trainer warns an attack 'will happen'.

It emerged yesterday that up to seven British jihadis have been trained by ISIS
and are now back in the UK.

The man who trained them was a member of ISIS' feared internal security - the
terror group's equivalent of The Gestapo.

He claims they were trained abroad before returning to Britain six weeks ago
with a mission.

They have been trained to use grenades, make bombs and use other weapons.

Speaking to Sky News, he confirmed they were English and said: "They got
training for a month and a half and then they went back home.

"I am telling you it (an attack) is happening. It's been a month and a half
since they went back."

One potential target for ISIS is said to be this Saturday's VJ commemorations
involving the Queen.

It is believed to be part of a new strategy with the terror group urging British
jihadis to carry out attacks at home rather than travelling to Iraq or Syria.

The shock claims were uncovered by an exclusive online sting by Sky News using
fake social media accounts to unmask Islamic State recruiters.

An undercover investigator spoke to a terrorist responsible for training some of
those believed to be in Britain.

He claimed they had received training to help launch an attack.

He said: "Yes, yes, yes everything, all of this - using the Kalashnikov, the
pistol, the bomb, grenades and other things.

"They have lessons after training that last an hour then they leave.

"We don't see too much, we are there for their protection; seeing what they are
actually doing or what they are talking about is impossible, it is forbidden."

The IS chiefs - a married British couple called Junaid and Umm Hussain - told
undercover reporters that a girl in Glasgow was poised to murder and maim using
an improvised explosive device (IED).

Over a four-month period, Sky News invented and developed characters and
employed a freelance investigative reporter to "run" the characters - one male
and one female.

Stuart Ramsay, Sky News chief correspondent, said: "Using these personas, we
made contact with Islamic State recruiters initially using Twitter - then using
anonymous online messaging services.

"It led us to a married couple - Junaid, or Abu, Hussain, and Sally Jones, known
as Umm Hussain. They're both from Britain and living in Raqqa. Hussain, 21, is
from Birmingham and is in charge of IS recruitment.

"He is also a former computer hacker and has the dubious honour of being in the
top five of IS operatives most likely to be killed by an American drone.

"During the course of our initial contacts he realised he was talking to a
female and suggested she talk to his wife. Jones - originally from Chatham in
Kent - recruits women and girls from Britain.

"She sent a bomb-making manual to our female character via a secure-sharing
site, telling us that she had another girl in Glasgow ready to attack.

"Specifically, she mentioned the Royal Family and the date of August 15 - the
day of the VJ commemorations in London."

The news comes after a newspaper claimed that British jihadis plotted to blow up
the Queen next weekend at an event to mark the anniversary of the end of the
Second World War.

Police and MI5 were involved in a frantic race against time to thwart the
assassination plot being orchestrated from Syria by Islamic State commanders.

The extremists aimed to strike on Saturday by exploding a deadly pressure cooker
bomb during events in Central London to mark the 70th anniversary of VJ Day -
Victory in Japan, according to the Mail on Sunday.

On Saturday, the Queen, accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh - a veteran of the
war in the Pacific - will first attend a service at St Martin-in-the-Fields in
Trafalgar Square.

From there dignitaries will move to Horse Guards Parade for a traditional
military 'drumhead' service, a flypast and a wreath-laying ceremony before the
set-piece VJ Day parade of veterans and current troops down Whitehall to
Westminster Abbey.

Police Scotland

The Metropolitan Police's Specialist Operations unit issued a statement saying:
"The police have for some time recognised, and spoken about, the fact that the
fight against terrorism has a number of challenges; the real threat from people
returning as trained terrorists from Syria and Iraq; the equal threat of those
who have not travelled being encouraged and incited to commit attacks in the UK
and the young and vulnerable being enticed out to Syria through internet based
grooming.

"The police, together with our security partners, remain alert to terrorist
threats that may manifest here or where individuals overseas may seek to direct
or inspire others to commit attacks in and against the UK.

It is always helpful when journalists share with us information, as Sky did in
this case, that could indicate terrorist or criminal activity and we will
investigate and take action where appropriate.

"The UK threat level from international terrorism remains severe. We would like
to reassure the public that we constantly review security plans for public
events, taking into account specific intelligence and the wider threat.

"Our priority is the safety and security for all those attending or involved,
the public are encouraged to continue with their plans to attend or take part in
events as normal.

"We would also like to reiterate our long-standing advice to remain vigilant and
alert. As ever we would urge the public to get in touch to report anything
suspicious by calling the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321 or
in an emergency by calling 999."

ISIS recently released a sickening video showing their latest appalling
execution technique - forcing men to kneel on explosives and then blowing them
up.

ISIS execute bound men with explosives on hillside in sickening new video

The footage shows gleeful and proud militants digging up the ground and planting
explosives on the dirt.

A group of 10 men are then led by the black-clad terrorists to the site and
forced onto their knees.

The killers then flee the site and detonate the explosives, killing the victims
in a huge blast.

Before dying, each of the prisoners were forced to admit their offences before
being brutally murdered.

It was reportedly filmed in Nangarhar in Afghanistan, where ISIS is trying to
increase its power base.

Timeline of terror: The rise of ISIS

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack on Topal

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 67 words


Fenerbahçe said yesterday that Mehmet Topal, their Turkey midfielder, survived
his car being shot at in what the club described as "an armed terrorist attack".
The 29-year-old was returning home from a training session yesterday when he was
targeted, the club said in a statement on their website. They also published a
picture of the windscreen of Topal's bulletproof car that appeared to show
damage.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday

Greek Foreign Ministry "unequivocally" condemns Baghdad terror attack

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report in English by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA
website

[Unattributed report: "Foreign Ministry Condemns Terror Attack in Baghdad"]

The Greek Foreign Ministry issued on Thursday [13 August] an announcement on the
terror attack in Baghdad "We unequivocally condemn today's deadly terrorist
attack by the Islamic State on innocent citizens in Baghdad.

We express our abhorrence, deep sorrow and our condolences to the victim's loved
ones and to the government and the friendly Iraqi people who are being so sorely
tested.

In defence of human life as the highest good, Greece will continue to stand by
the side of Iraq and all of the countries of the wider region that are suffering
at the hands of terrorism.

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
1141 gmt 13 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      August 13, 2015 Thursday 9:46 AM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack to cost TUI up to £32m

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 487 words


Thomson and First Choice owner TUI has said the terrorist massacre in Tunisia
will have an impact on earnings of up to £32 million.

The attack in June claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30 UK
nationals, who were TUI customers. Two other tourists with the company from
Germany and one from Belgium also died. Most of those injured were also its
customers.

Tourists were flown home from the North African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office and other governments
still advising against visits.

The cost of the flights home was 10 million euros (£7 million) while the impact
of empty hotels in a region that normally accounts for just under half a million
TUI visitors a year is expected at 25 to 30 million euros (£18 million to £21
million)

Together with other costs, the total impact is seen at 35 to 45 million euros
(£25 million to £32 million), a spokeswoman for the company said.

Tunisia has in the past represented 3% of the company's annual tour operator
programmes. TUI set out details of the impact in a trading update for the third
quarter to the end of June.

Joint chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority.

"We are very proud of the commitment and dedication our colleagues have shown
throughout this unprecedented situation."

Mr Long described the attack as a "human tragedy that completely overshadowed
our quarter". He said it was "the most horrific event I and my company have ever
had to deal with".

TUI also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty in the region.

But Mr Long said that overall there had been no impact as after a slowdown in
bookings there had been a recovery.

The figures come after rival Thomas Cook revealed a £25 million hit to earnings
from events in Tunisia and Greece.

Mr Long said that after the Tunisia attack, 18 additional flights were laid on
to bring holidaymakers home, including 13 from the UK, four from Belgium and one
from the Netherlands.

Most of those with trips booked to Tunisia were re-booked on 26 extra flights to
13 destinations including the Balearic Islands, mainland Spain and Cyprus.

Mr Long said: "Our priority has been to support our customers, their families
and colleagues impacted by this horrendous event.

"Both I and all my colleagues still remain in deep shock as a result of the
tragic loss of life and injuries to our customers."

Despite the tragedy, TUI delivered an 18% rise in underlying earnings for the
quarter to 194 million euros (£138 million). Shares rose 8%.

Mr Long said summer trading remained "robust" while bookings for the winter were
in line with expectations and there had been a good start for the summer 2016
period.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday

FCO Minister Tobias Ellwood condemns terrorist attack in Jameela Market, Baghdad

LENGTH: 130 words


In the early hours of this morning terrorists targeted innocent civilians at the
Jameela market in Sadr City, Iraq killing and injuring many people. The Minister
for the Middle East and North Africa strongly condemns this awful attack.



Speaking today, Mr Ellwood said:

I am saddened to hear of the significant loss of life in a crowded market in
Baghdad this morning, following a terrorist attack claimed by ISIL. These
barbaric criminals have once again targeted a civilian area full of innocent
people. My thoughts are with the families and friends of the innocent victims
caught up in this attack.

The UK continues to support the efforts of the Government and the people of Iraq
fight against violent extremism taking place in Iraq.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 13, 2015 Thursday 1:17 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack will cost TUI up to £32m, says Thomson and First Choice
owner;
Tunisia has in the past represented 3% of the company's annual tour operator
programmes

BYLINE: John-Paul Ford Rojas

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 540 words


Thomson and First Choice owner TUI has said the terrorist massacre in Tunisia
will have an impact on earnings of up to £32 million.

The attack in June claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30 UK
nationals, who were TUI customers. Two other tourists with the company from
Germany and one from Belgium also died. Most of those injured were also its
customers.

Tourists were flown home from the North African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office and other governments
still advising against visits.

The cost of the flights home was 10 million euros (£7 million) while the impact
of empty hotels in a region that normally accounts for just under half a million
TUI visitors a year is expected at 25 to 30 million euros (£18 million to £21
million).In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Together with other costs, the total impact is seen at 35 to 45 million euros
(£25 million to £32 million), a spokeswoman for the company said.

Tunisia has in the past represented 3% of the company's annual tour operator
programmes. TUI set out details of the impact in a trading update for the third
quarter to the end of June.

Joint chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority.

READ MORETunisia tourism: Will holidaymakers ever return?'Warnings for tourists
hurts country and helps jihadi recruiters'Tunisian PM says Britain has
responsibility to protect nationTravel stocks shrugged off warnings to British
holidaymakers

"We are very proud of the commitment and dedication our colleagues have shown
throughout this unprecedented situation."

Mr Long described the attack as a "human tragedy that completely overshadowed
our quarter". He said it was "the most horrific event I and my company have ever
had to deal with".

TUI also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty in the region.

But Mr Long said that overall there had been no impact as after a slowdown in
bookings there had been a recovery.

The figures come after rival Thomas Cook revealed a £25 million hit to earnings
from events in Tunisia and Greece.

Mr Long said that after the Tunisia attack, 18 additional flights were laid on
to bring holidaymakers home, including 13 from the UK, four from Belgium and one
from the Netherlands.

Most of those with trips booked to Tunisia were re-booked on 26 extra flights to
13 destinations including the Balearic Islands, mainland Spain and Cyprus.

Mr Long said: "Our priority has been to support our customers, their families
and colleagues impacted by this horrendous event.

"Both I and all my colleagues still remain in deep shock as a result of the
tragic loss of life and injuries to our customers."

Despite the tragedy, TUI delivered an 18% rise in underlying earnings for the
quarter to 194 million euros (£138 million). Shares rose 8%.

Mr Long said summer trading remained "robust" while bookings for the winter were
in line with expectations and there had been a good start for the summer 2016
period.

PA

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday

Holiday giants feel the impact of terror attacks and Greek turmoil

SECTION: BUSINESS:AGRICULTURE; Pg. 34-35

LENGTH: 230  words


O nce again the values of the county's two share listed travel firms have
dropped. Just as other consumer goods are affected by market demand, so too are
holiday retailers.

As the poor results for Thomson showed last week, travel firms have been
adversely affected by the horrific terror attacks in Tunisia and the turmoil
surrounding the fortunes of Greece - a traditionally popular destination for
Brits.

All Leisure Group, in Market Harborough, has seen its share price drop from
14.5p last month to 9.2p, a substantial loss.

In February, it was valued at 25.34p a share.

Likewise Thomas Cook, which has its historical roots in the county, has gone
from 129.9p a share to 115.9p. In May, it hit 160p.

With the holiday season coming to an end, the travel firms will be hoping old
faithfuls such as Spain will fill any gaps that come along in future months and
years.

There have been some decent risers this month.

Wealth management business Mattioli Woods is up 39p to 571p, as it continues to
prove attractive to investors.

Its property investment arm Custodian Reit has stayed steady at 108p as it
continues to sniff out new deals.

Once again Enderby fashion chain Next is the biggest riser, up more than £4 per
share to £79.70 on the month.

During the period, the business hit a new high of £80, a significant position
considering that only last December shares were trading for £63.25.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 13, 2015 Thursday 9:27 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack will cost TUI £25m but shares rise as firm reports
strong holiday sales

BYLINE: MARK SHAPLAND FOR THIS IS MONEY

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 566 words



     ·    Beach massacre in Tunisia killed 33 TUI holidaymakers
     ·    Travel group reports (EURO)10m cost from tragedy
     ·    Shares rise 8% as profits and revenues rise on robust holiday bookings
     ·    TUI reports biggest fall in Greek holiday bookings came in Germany


The brutal massacre on a Tunisian beach that saw 38 people gunned down while
enjoying their summer holidays is expected to cost TUI Group £25million, the
travel operator revealed today.

Of the people killed in June, 33 were on TUI holidays. The company said that
supporting families of victims remained its number one priority at the moment.

TUI, which owns Thomson and First Choice Travel, reported today that it took a
(EURO)10million (£7million) hit to its profits in the third quarter as a result
of the event. In a call it said it expects total costs to be (EURO)35million
(£25million).

TUI shares rose 8 per cent in morning trading, as the news on Tunisia was
accompanied by a rise in profits and revenues off the back of robust holiday
bookings.

The Tunisia costs came from paying for holidaymakers flights home plus
cancellations and switching people booked on holidays to Tunisia to different
destinations.

UK Foreign Office officials are still advising against visiting the North
African country.

TUI said that Greece's flirtation with default and leaving the eurozone had also
hit bookings, but Greek holiday sales had picked up in recent weeks.

It said the situation in Greece had the greatest impact on bookings in Germany
and Belgium.

Peter Long, chief executives of TUI Group, said: 'This quarter was marked by the
tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

'Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority. We are very proud of the commitment and
dedication our colleagues have shown throughout this unprecedented situation.'

Tunisia has in the past represented 3 per cent of TUI's annual tour operator
programmes.

But the travel operator still posted net income of (EURO)49.4million in the
three months to the end of June, up from a loss of (EURO)5.6million in the same
period in 2014.

Sales of (EURO)5.08billion were up 6.4 per cent in the third quarter, compared
to last year.

TUI said: 'In spite of the tragic events in Tunisia and economic uncertainty in
Greece, we have delivered strong underlying EBITA [earnings] growth in the
quarter and summer 2015 trading remains robust.'

TUI also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty - as the indebted country neared economic
collapse before reaching a deal on a new bailout with creditors.

Mike van Dulken, at Accendo Markets, said: 'TUI are topping the FTSE 100 this
morning as traders express relief that quarter three profits still managed to
rise by double digits following horrifying terror attacks in Tunisia end-June
which wiped (EURO)10million from earnings as tourists subsequently shied away
from travelling to the popular North African destination.

He added: 'Uncertainty remains over other favourite Greece, with performance
hindered end-June and early July by painful bailout negotiations, a referendum
and imposition of painful capital controls, however, investors cheered by news
that recent weeks have seen a welcome improvement in bookings (ahead of last
year) and we note anecdotal evidence that things on the ground seem fine from a
tourism standpoint.'

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     August 13, 2015 Thursday 10:31 AM GMT

Holidaymakers hit out at Turkish hotel staff who dressed up as terrorists and
launched 'joke' attack by pool;
Jason Pythian, from Fallowfield, and his family were terrified when staff
dressed up in army fatigues and pointed fake guns at tourists at the five-star
Grand Yazici Mares hotel in Icmeler, Turkey

BYLINE: By men

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 526 words


A Manchester family feared they were caught up in a second Tunisia massacre
after hotel staff in Turkey launched a 'joke' attack.

British tourists were at the resort when a mock terrorist with a headdress and
fake beard emptied a water canister marked 'fuel' and pulled out a lighter.

Staff at the five-star Grand Yazici Mares hotel in Icmeler, on Turkey's
Dalmatian Coast, staged the 'Hollywood themed poolside show' last week while it
was packed with Brits.

But tourist Jason Phythian was mortified by the costumes just six weeks after
Seifiddine Rezgui opened fire on tourists in Sousse, Tunisia, killing 38 people
including 30 Brits.

The 43-year-old electrician from Fallowfield, told The Sun: "There were loads of
British people round the pool, and suddenly everyone became terrified.

"I looked round and saw Arab-looking guys stalking around and above the pool
carrying big guns."

Jason said he paid more than £5,000 for the all-inclusive holiday with his wife,
sister Dawn Sutton and Dawn's husband and son.

He added: "Dawn had been haunted by the news of the Tunisia attack and... you
could see in her face that she thought her worst nightmare was coming true."

READ: Tunisia evacuation: Hundreds of holidaymakers set to land back in
Manchester

READ: Tunisia terror attack victims to be remembered with minute's silence at
midday

Dawn, 41, also hit out at the prank yesterday on review website TripAdvisor.

"As for the entertainment team they was useless... was so shocked to see them
dressed up," she wrote.

"One was dressed in army pants walking round to pool with gun and pointing it at
people.

"Then there were two walking about as Arabs, one with a rifle and one with a
container with 'fuel' written on (it was only water).

"He came up to a family member and poured it on his head then pretended the
light his head.

"They all thought this was entertainment I just thought it was such bad taste
since what had happened in Tunisia."

A worker at the hotel's reception told Mirror Online no one was immediately
available for comment.

A spokesman for tour operator Jet2, who the family booked their holiday through,
said: "We are sorry to hear about the distress experienced by the Sutton family
today and on hearing this we immediately spoke to the hotel management.

"They have assured us it was never their intention to cause any offense or upset
with their entertainment programme.

"This was a Hollywood themed poolside show, which included the characters Rambo
and Superman, and it is always well received by the hotel's residents.

"The hotel management now understands that some of the costumes may have caused
offense and they will no longer use these in their shows."

The Foreign Office says Turkey is less dangerous than Tunisia, where thousands
of Brits were pulled out after officials advised against all non-essential
travel after the beach attack.

Holidaymakers are only told not to travel within a few miles of the border with
Syria, where would-be jihadis have been crossing to join the fight with the
so-called Islamic State.

They are warned there is a high risk of a terror attack in Turkey - but exactly
the same advice is given out on home soil in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      August 13, 2015 Thursday 1:45 PM BST

HOLIDAY FIRM APOLOGISES AFTER TURKEY HOTEL STAFF STAGE 'TERROR' ATTACK

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 594 words


A holiday firm has apologised after hotel staff in Turkey staged an apparent
mock terrorist ``attack'' to entertain guests.

The joke backfired as one British holidaymaker said he was left ``terrified'' by
the stunt at the Grand Yazici Mares hotel in Icmeler.

The incident last Thursday came just six weeks after Islamic State terrorist
Seifeddine Rezgui Yacoubi killed 38 people, 30 of them British holidaymakers, in
Tunisia.

Electrician Jason Pythian, 43, from Manchester, said he was among dozens of
British tourists lounging by the pool when gun-toting mock Arab terrorists
dressed in Middle Eastern outfits and army gear appeared.

Mr Pythian told The Sun only after they ran for their lives fearing another
massacre did they realise it was a prank.

He told the paper: ``We were so relieved - it was the hotel's idea of
entertainment for the day. They thought it was funny to run around the pool
dressed as terrorists.

``One ran up to me with a bucket with 'Fuel' written on the side. He threw it
over me and got out a cigarette lighter. I jumped up, not knowing what on Earth
was going on. It was disgusting to try and make light of Tunisia in that way.''

He was in a party of six who had paid tour operator Jet2holidays more than
£5,000 for a 12-day all-inclusive stay to celebrate his father George's 70th
birthday.

They flew to the Dalaman coast on July 30 with Jason's wife Maureen, sister Dawn
Sutton, 41, plus her husband David and nine-year-old son Tyler.

His sister also criticised the stunt on website TripAdvisor, writing: ``So
shocked to see them dressed up,'' Mrs Sutton said.

``One was dressed in army pants walking round with a gun and pointing it at
people.

``Then there were two walking about as Arabs, one with a rifle and one with a
container with 'Fuel' written on - it was only water.

``He came up to a family member and poured it on his head, then pretended to
light his head. They thought it was entertainment.

``I just thought it was bad taste since what happened in Tunisia.''

Icmeler is less than 400 miles from the war-torn border with Syria, much of the
country in the hands of terror group Islamic State.

And Turkey has also been hit by a series of terrorist outrages as the
neighbouring civil war spills over to more countries.

A spokeswoman for Jet2holidays, said: ``We are sorry to hear about the distress
experienced by the Sutton family and on hearing this we immediately spoke to the
hotel management.

``They have assured us it was never their intention to cause any offence or
upset with their entertainment programme.

``This was a Hollywood themed poolside show, which included the characters Rambo
and Superman, and it is always well received by the hotel's residents. The hotel
management now understands that some of the costumes may have caused offence and
they will no longer use these in their shows.''

However an online comment by another British holidaymaker currently staying at
the hotel played down the incident.

The comment on Mail Online said: ``The Hollywood Theme pool entertainment could
have been seen as insensitive but was in no way scary as the entertainers all
had comedy make-up and a commentator was providing a running commentary.

``No one appeared scared, no one was running for their lives and although it
provided 'food for thought' and lots of laughs it certainly needed to be taken
in context. (Along with the cowboys and Indians, Rambo, Arab Sheik and other
Hollywood characters).

``Furthermore, there are many nationalities here, the least being British. Most
are Turks and Russians and only a smattering of Brits.''

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     August 13, 2015 Thursday 08:44 AM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack Hits TUI Profits

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 292 words



HIGHLIGHT: TUI group, the owner of Thomson, has revealed its profits dropped by
(EURO)10m (£7m) in the three months to the end of June due to the impact of the
Tunisia terrorist attack.


  Overall, underlying earnings for the period increased by 18% to (EURO)194m
(£138m), as robust trading in the UK helped to offset the financial effect of
the tragedy.

Of the 38 victims of the attack, in which gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire
on sunbathing tourists on the beach and a hotel in the resort of Sousse, 30 were
British and a total of 33 were on TUI holidays.

Group chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority."

Tunisia has historically accounted for around 3% of TUI's holiday offering.

The company insists its return to the country will be dictated by the Foreign
Office.

Britain, as well as Belgium and the Netherlands, is currently advising against
unnecessary travel to Tunisia.

TUI said most customers who had been forced to cancel their trips to Tunisia
this summer have rebooked for an alternative destination.

The group also flagged the ongoing Greek financial crisis as a factor
constraining profitability.

However, despite lower demand from Germany and Belgium, overall bookings to
Greece are in fact up year-on-year.

Greece accounts for roughly 10% of TUI's holidays so investors will welcome the
news that demand here has remained resilient.

TUI retained an optimistic tone saying: "In spite of the tragic events in
Tunisia and economic uncertainty in Greece, we have delivered strong underlying
EBITA [earnings] growth in the quarter and summer 2015 trading remains robust."

Shares in the travel group had fallen nearly 18% since mid-May, but were 8%
higher in early trading this morning.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 13, 2015 Thursday 1:05 PM GMT

TUI to take (EURO)40m hit from Tunisia attack;
The terrorist shootings in June led to the deaths of 33 customers of the FTSE
100 tour operator

BYLINE: By Ben Martin

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 568 words


Tour operator TUI will take a hit of as much as (EURO)40m from the terrorist
attack in Tunisiathat led to the deaths of 33 of its customers.

The FTSE 100 company behind the Thomson and First Choice brands said that flying
holidaymakers home from the North African country had cost it (EURO)10m during
its third quarter . It also expects to take a hit of between (EURO)25m and
(EURO)30m from the 24 leased and managed hotels it has in Tunisia that are now
"either empty or at a very low occupancy" following the tragedy.

The beach massacre in June by an Islamist gunman killed 38 tourists. The 30
Britons that died were all on TUI holidays, as were two Germans and a Belgian
national that were killed. Many of the injured were also travelling with the
tour operator.

Peter Long, co-chief executive of TUI, on Thursday described the attack as a
"human tragedy that completely overshadowed our quarter". The shootings on the
beach at Sousse were "the most horrific event that I and my company have ever
had to deal with", he said.

The company has since cancelled its tour programmes to Tunisia from the UK, the
Netherlands and Belgium after the governments in those countries warned against
travelling to the North African nation.

Mr Long said that even if government travel advice changed, the company was
unlikely to run the same services to Tunisia that it had offered before the
tragedy.

"I sadly don't think that we're going to see a full reinstatement of the
programme in the near-term," the TUI boss said. He added that "we don't know"
whether tourism to the country would ever fully recover. Before the shootings,
the company had been carrying almost 500,000 tourists a year to Tunisia.

There have been no legal actions against TUI from injured customers or the
families of those who died and any challenges would be covered by the tour
operator's insurance, Mr Long said. "We believe that we've taken all the right
actions," he added.

The Tunisia attack rocked TUI during the peak summer season, as did the debt
crisis in Greece. Fears that the Greek banking system would collapse and the
country would be ejected from the eurozone had a short-term impact on demand,
but "we have now seen a recovery of booking volumes into Greece in recent
weeks", Mr Long said.

Despite revealing the scale of the financial impact of Tunisia, shares in TUI
surged by 7.2pc on Thursday after the tour operator pleased investors with its
overall third-quarter results.

Underlying profits rose by 18pc to (EURO)194m and the company said it now
expected full-year profit growth of between 12.5pc and 15pc, an improvement on
its previous forecast of 10pc to 15pc. Simon French, an analyst at Cenkos,
described the quarterly update as "reassuringly solid".

Demand in the UK for long-haul holidays was particularly strong, with volumes up
16pc in the year to date, driven by the improving British economy and the
strength of the pound against other currencies

"The general feel-good factor is now turning into more disposable income," Mr
Long said. "That special long-haul holiday is becoming much more important to
[our customers], and that's why we're seeing the growth in demand."

TUI announced in May that it was embarking on a re-branding exercise that will
see it axe the 50-year Thomson name.

Mr Long said on Thursday that, contrary to reports at the time, no decision had
been made about dropping the First Choice brand.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       August 14, 2015 Friday 1:19 PM GMT

ISIS recruiter Sally Jones 'spotted in Birmingham' as fears mount of UK terror
attack;
Former punk rocker married terror group suspect Junaid Hussain, from Kings Heath

BYLINE: By Josh Layton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


An British ISIS recruiter linked to several terror plots has reportedly been
spotted in Birmingham with two suspected jihadis.

Sally Jones - married to Birmingham terror suspect Junaid Hussain - is feared to
be planning an atrocity after slipping back into the country.

Special Branch officers are said to be on full alert after the sighting of the
fanatic, who has been dubbed 'Mrs Terror' after arriving in Syria in 2013 to
fight for the extremist group.

A source said: "This is worrying but Special Branch officers are working on this
to track her down. Officers are in place at various airports to keep an eye out
for her.

"There is intelligence that she was last seen in Birmingham with two
individuals, aged 18 and 22.

"Detectives are also keeping an eye on shopping centres and large events."

Scotland Yard refused to comment on the reported sighting of the mother-of-two.

She is married to Hussain, 21, who urged undercover reporters posing as
prospective recruits to carry out attacks in Britain and sent them bomb-making
guidebooks.

Jones also revealed in the online sting that she had recruited a female
terrorist who is in Glasgow and is ready to launch a devastating attack at
tomorrow's VJ commemorations.

Hussain, originally from Kings Heath, is reported to be running the ISIS
recruitment arm in the terror group's stronghold of Raqqa in Syria.

Jones, a former punk singer, of Chatham in Kent, was also thought to be there.

Police Scotland said it was working with Met police after the reports of
"potential terrorist activity", adding the threat level in the UK remains at
severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

The Met's Specialist Operations unit said it "remained alert to terrorist
threats".

It has also been reported that ISIS is plotting to blow up the Queen at the VJ
commemorations, triggering an urgent review of security arrangements for the
events.

A terror chief has claimed four or five British recruits who trained in Syria
have returned here to launch strikes.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       August 14, 2015 Friday 9:34 AM GMT

Poisonous gas attack by ISIS leads to fears terrorists are mass producing
CHEMICAL WEAPONS

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 612 words


ISLAMIC State terrorists are believed to have launched a chemical weapons attack
involving MUSTARD GAS in northern Iraq.

AP·YOUTUBE

America fears mustard gas was used in the attack on Kurds this week

The sick assault from the crazed jihadist group was unleashed on Kurdish forces
using poisonous gas inside dozens of mortar shells, according to German troops
stationed in the area.

Around 60 Kurds were injured, returning with breathing difficulties and burns.

United States officials are investigating the claims and talking to affected
troops but suspect it was mustard gas, possibly left over from former dictator
Saddam Hussein's weapons stash.

Alistair Baskey, a spokesman for the White House's National Security Council,
said the it was taking the allegations "very seriously" while a senior US
government source said: "We have credible information that the agent used in the
attack was mustard."

US Ambassador at the United Nations, Samantha Power said, if true, it would
further prove that ISIS carries out "systematic attacks on civilians who don't
accord to their particularly perverse world view".

Related articles  Sick ISIS makes rape part of its religion as Koran
'encourages...  WARNING: British ISIS recruit dubbed 'Mrs Terror' spotted in
UK...

It has led to fears ISIS is mass-producing chemical weapons to be used against
both troops and civilians.

The attack took place against the Peshmerga Kurdish force on Wednesday near the
town of Makhmur in the Kurdistan region.

German military trainers have been backing the Kurdish troops and are understood
to have 90 personnel in the area. They reported the incident to the defence
ministry in Berlin.

French weapons inspectors have also arrived in the area to take samples.

The Peshmerga General Command said in a statement yesterday: "The terrorists
launched 45 120mm mortar shells tipped with chemical heads on Peshmerga
positions which led to the injury of a number of Peshmerga forces with burns on
different parts of their bodies."

It follows ISIS being accused of a chemical weapons attack in similar reports
last month.

Jihadists were said to have used 'chlorine-filled rockets' in a sick onslaught
against civilians and rebel fighters in Kurdish-controlled areas of Iraq and
Syria.

There were also reports of ISIS having "industrial" gas masks for the use of
their fighters, leading to fears of further chemical attacks.

However, fears have grown over the latest attack as mustard gas is said to be up
to 3,000 times more powerful than chlorine.

Mustard gas was initially used by Germany during the First World War where it
incapacitated troops and was reported to have left many victims disfigured.

Deaths were often painful and could take three to four weeks.

The United Nations banned its use, along with a number of other chemical
weapons, in 1993.

GETTY

Saddam Hussein used mustard gas against his own people in his despotic reign

But Syrian President Bashar Assad's government was said to have used chemical
weapons in an attack on a suburb of the Syrian capital of Damascus in 2014 that
killed hundreds of civilians.

There have been numerous reports of chemical weapons use in Syria since then -
especially chlorine-filled barrel bombs.

Related articles  Mustard war gas kills BBC man 27 years on on  Does Islamic
State have chemical agents? Fears after US weapons...

Kurdish forces, which are supporting US-led air strikes with a ground offensive
against ISIS, are said to be woefully armed against the well-funded extremist
group.

This week's alleged attack came a day before ISIS claimed responsibility for the
truck bombing at a Baghdad market which killed 67 in one of the most deadly
attacks since the Iraq War.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Senior UN official in Iraq strongly condemns 'cowardly' terrorist attack that
kills dozens at Baghdad market

LENGTH: 195 words


The acting head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq has strongly
condemned today's truck bomb attack on a market in east Baghdad, which initial
reports say killed at least 45 people and for which the Islamic State in Iraq
and the Levant (ISIL) has claimed responsibility.



In a statement issued by the Mission, known as UNAMI, Deputy Special
Representative Gyorgy Busztin deplored the "devastating" truck bomb attack,
which took place at Jameela market in Sadr City, east Baghdad and killed at
least 45 people and has wounded scores more.

"These figures are tragically expected to rise," says the statement, and Mr.
Busztin adds: "I utterly condemn this heinous and cowardly attack, targeting
innocent civilians, many children included, in a public market place."

Declaring the attack an "indiscriminate act of terrorism" aimed at weakening the
resolve of the Iraqi people, he said: "I have no doubt in my mind that the
terrorists will fail."

Mr. Busztin extended his profound sympathy and condolences to the victims and
their families and has called for the perpetrators of the crime to be swiftly
brought to justice.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Senior UN official in Iraq deplores 'cowardly' terrorist attack that kills
dozens at Baghdad market

LENGTH: 195 words


The acting head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq has strongly
condemned today's truck bomb attack on a market in east Baghdad, which initial
reports say killed at least 45 people and for which the Islamic State in Iraq
and the Levant (ISIL) has claimed responsibility.



In a statement issued by the Mission, known as UNAMI, Deputy Special
Representative Gyorgy Busztin deplored the "devastating" truck bomb attack,
which took place at Jameela market in Sadr City, east Baghdad and killed at
least 45 people and has wounded scores more.

"These figures are tragically expected to rise," says the statement, and Mr.
Busztin adds: "I utterly condemn this heinous and cowardly attack, targeting
innocent civilians, many children included, in a public market place."

Declaring the attack an "indiscriminate act of terrorism" aimed at weakening the
resolve of the Iraqi people, he said: "I have no doubt in my mind that the
terrorists will fail."

Mr. Busztin extended his profound sympathy and condolences to the victims and
their families and has called for the perpetrators of the crime to be swiftly
brought to justice.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Jet2 apologise for 'joke' fake hotel terror attack

BYLINE: By Press Association Reporters

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words


A HOLIDAY firm has apologised after hotel staff in Turkey staged an apparent
mock terrorist assault to entertain guests.

The incident came just six weeks after Islamic State terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui
Yacoubi killed 38 people, 30 of them British holidaymakers, in Tunisia.

Electrician Jason Pythian, 43, from Manchester, said he was among dozens of
British tourists lounging by the pool when gun-toting, mock Arab terrorists
appeared.

Mr Pythian said only after they ran for their lives fearing another massacre did
they realise it was a prank.

He said: "We were so relieved - it was the hotel's idea of entertainment for the
day. They thought it was funny to run around the pool dressed as terrorists.

"One ran up to me with a bucket with 'fuel' written on the side. He threw it
over me and got out a cigarette lighter. I jumped up, not knowing what was going
on. It was disgusting to try and make light of Tunisia in that way."

A spokeswoman for Jet2holidays, said: "This was a Hollywood-themed poolside
show, which included the characters Rambo and Superman, and it is always well
received by the hotel's residents.

"The hotel management understands some costumes may have caused offence and they
will no longer use these in their shows."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Business - TUI hampered by terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 127 words


Thomson and First Choice owner TUI has said the terrorist massacre in Tunisia
will have an impact on earnings of up to £32 million. The attack in June claimed
the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30 UK nationals, who were TUI customers.
Two other tourists with the company from Germany and one from Belgium also died.
Most of those injured were also its customers.

Tourists were flown home from the north African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office and other governments
still advising against visits. The cost of the flights home was EUR10m (£7m)
while the impact of empty hotels in a region that normally accounts for just
under half-a-million TUI visitors a year is expected at EUR25m (£18m) to EUR30m
(£21m).

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Hotel's 'terror attack' prank terrifies guests

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 362 words


The joke backfired as one British holidaymaker said he was left  terrified  by
the stunt at the Grand Yazici Mares hotel in Icmeler last Thursday.

The incident came just six weeks after Islamic State terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui
Yacoubi killed 38 people, 30 of them British holidaymakers, in Tunisia.

Electrician Jason Pythian, 43, from Manchester, said he was among dozens of
British tourists lounging by the pool when gun-toting mock Arab terrorists
dressed in Middle Eastern outfits and army gear appeared.

Mr Pythian told The Sun only after they ran for their lives fearing a massacre
did they realise it was a prank.

He told the newspaper:  We were so relieved   it was the hotel s idea of
entertainment for the day. They thought it was funny to run around the pool
dressed as terrorists. One ran up to me with a bucket with  Fuel  written on the
side. He threw it over me and got out a cigarette lighter. I jumped up, not
knowing what on Earth was going on. It was disgusting to try and make light of
Tunisia in that way.

He was in a party of six who had booked their stay with Jet2holidays . The group
also included Jason s wife Maureen, her sister Dawn Sutton, 41, and her husband,
David, and son Tyler, 9.

Icmeler is less than 650km from the war-torn border with Syria, much of the
country in the hands of IS.

A spokeswoman for Jet2holidays, said:  We are sorry to hear about the distress
experienced by the Sutton family and on hearing this we immediately spoke to the
hotel management. They have assured us it was never their intention to cause any
offence or upset with their entertainment programme.

This was a Hollywood- themed poolside show, which included the characters Rambo
and Superman, and it is always well received by the hotel s residents. The hotel
management now understands that some of the costumes may have caused offence and
they will no longer use these in their shows.

However a comment on Mail Online by another holidaymaker played down the
incident:  The Hollywood Theme pool entertainment could have been seen as
insensitive but was in no way scary as the entertainers all had comedy make-up
and a commentator was providing a running commentary.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             August 14, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tunisia terrorist attack to COSTTUI up to £32m;
TOURISM

BYLINE: John-Paul Ford roJas

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words


THOMSON and First Choice owner TUI has said the terrorist massacre in Tunisia
will have an impact on earnings of up to £32m.

The attack in June claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30 UK
nationals, who were TUI customers. Two other tourists with the company from
Germany and one from Belgium also died. Most of those injured were also its
customers.

Tourists were flown home from the North African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office and other governments
still advising against visits. The cost of the flights home was (EURO)10m (£7m)
while the impact of empty hotels in a region that normally accounts for just
under half a million TUI visitors a year is expected at (EURO)25m to (EURO)30m
(£18m to £21m) Together with other costs, the total impact is seen at (EURO)35m
to (EURO)45m (£25m to £32m), a spokeswoman for the company said.

Tunisia has in the past represented 3% of the company's annual tour operator
programmes. TUI set out details of the impact in a trading update for the third
quarter to the end of June.

Joint chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority. We are very proud of the commitment and
dedication our colleagues have shown throughout this unprecedented situation."

Mr Long described the attack as a "human tragedy that completely overshadowed
our quarter".

He said it was "the most horrific event I and my company have ever had to deal
with".

TUI also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty in the region.

But Mr Long said that overall there had been no impact as after a slowdown in
bookings there had been a recovery.

The figures come after rival Thomas Cook revealed a £25m hit to earnings from
events in Tunisia and Greece.

Mr Long said that after the Tunisia attack, 18 additional flights were laid on
to bring holidaymakers home, including 13 from the UK, four from Belgium and one
from the Netherlands.

Most of those with trips booked to Tunisia were re-booked on 26 extra flights to
13 destinations including the Balearic Islands, mainland Spain and Cyprus.

Mr Long said: "Our priority has been to support our customers, their families
and colleagues impacted by this horrendous event. Both I and all my colleagues
still remain in deep shock as a result of the tragic loss of life and injuries
to our customers."

Despite the tragedy, TUI delivered an 18% rise in underlying earnings for the
quarter to (EURO)194m (£138m). Shares rose 8%. Mr Long said summer trading
remained "robust" while bookings for the winter were in line with expectations
and there had been a good start for the summer 2016 period.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 14, 2015 Friday 12:52 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack will cost TUI Travel £32million this year;
Travel group which usually takes half a millions visitors to the North African
state each year counting cost of horrific attack

BYLINE: By David Craik

SECTION: NEWS,BUSINESS NEWS

LENGTH: 299 words


Tour operator TUI Travel said the Tunisian terror attack which killed 33 of its
customers will cost it £32million this year.

Peter Long, boss of the group, which owns Thomson and First Choice, said he and
his staff were still in "deep shock" from the "horrific" attack in June, which
left 38 people dead.

The bill includes the cost of ­repatriating holidaymakers hours after the attack
in Sousse, ­rescheduling flights for customers to other ­destinations such as
Cape Verde and Bulgaria and the ongoing cost of managing its now 24 "empty"
hotels in Tunisia.

It is also continuing to support victims relatives and the injured with trauma
counselling.

Long said he was in regular contact with the Tunisian authorities but was
following Foreign Office advice not to fly there from the UK. It usually takes
half a million visitors each year to the North African state.

"We never ever want to see human tragedy and our thoughts remain with the
­families whose lives have been ­devastated," he said.

"Even when the Foreign Office advice is lifted, we will listen to our customers
and staff's feelings about returning there."

TUI said tourists had also been put off travelling to Greece in June given the
social and political disturbances there but demand has since bounced back.

Despite the events, TUI still reported a 18% rise in profit to £138.5million in
its third quarter and expects full-year profits to grow by up to 15%. Long said
it had been boosted by its unique holidays, such as couples-only trips and a
boom in demand for long-haul flights from the UK to Mexico and Jamaica.

"Our marvellous Dreamliner planes and the strength of sterling has been
helpful," Long said.

"But I also feel Brits have the ­feel-good factor back. They have more
disposable income and leisure spend is high on their list."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

First Choice owner Tui faces £32m cost from terror attack

BYLINE: John-paul Ford Rojas And Gareth Mackie

LENGTH: 466  words


Holiday operator Tui has said that the terrorist massacre in  Tunisia will hit
its earnings by up to £32 million.

The attack in June claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers, including 33 of Tui
customers. All of the 30 Britons who died were travelling with the group, owner
of the Thomson and First Choice brands.

Tourists were flown home from the North African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office among governments still
advising against visits.

The cost of the flights home was €10 million (£7m), while the impact of empty
hotels in a region that normally accounts for just under half a million Tui
visitors a year is expected at €25m to €30m. Together with other costs, the
total impact is seen at €35m to €45m, a spokeswoman for the company said.

Tunisia has in the past represented 3 per cent of the company's annual tour
operator programmes.

Tui set out details of the impact in a trading update for the third quarter to
the end of June.

Joint chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority. We are very proud of the commitment and
dedication our colleagues have shown throughout this unprecedented situation."

Long described the attack as a "human tragedy that completely overshadowed our
quarter". He said it was "the most horrific event I and my company have ever had
to deal with".

Tui also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty in the region, but recent weeks have seen an
improvement in bookings, which remain ahead of last year.

The figures come after rival Thomas Cook revealed a £25m hit to earnings from
events in Tunisia and Greece.

Long said that after the Tunisia attack, 18 additional flights were laid on to
bring holidaymakers home, including 13 from the UK, four from Belgium and one
from the Netherlands.

Long said: "Our priority has been to support our customers, their families and
colleagues impacted by this horrendous event.

"Both I and all my colleagues still remain in deep shock as a result of the
tragic loss of life and injuries to our customers."

Despite the tragedy, Tui delivered an 18 per cent rise in underlying earnings
for the third quarter to €194m. Long said summer trading remained "robust" while
bookings for the winter were in line with expectations and there had been a good
start for the summer 2016 period.

Shore Capital analyst Greg Johnson said: "Overall, we see this as a robust
statement from Tui, when set against the geopolitical events in the period.
Full-year guidance has been maintained, highlighting the flexibility in the
business model."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      August 14, 2015 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack will cost tour operator up to (EURO)40m

BYLINE: Dominic Walsh

SECTION: LEISURE

LENGTH: 604 words


The travel giant behind the Thomson and First Choice holiday brands revealed
yesterday that the Tunisian terrorist attack in which 33 of its customers died
would hit full-year profits by up to (EURO)40 million.

TUI Group said that dealing with the aftermath of the tragedy, including
repatriating all customers, had cost (EURO)10 million in the third quarter while
the cessation of operations to Tunisia would cost a further (EURO)25 million to
(EURO)30 million in the final quarter.

Peter Long, TUI co-chief executive, said that he and his colleagues were "still
reeling from the tragedy" in the resort of Sousse, which cost the lives of 38
holidaymakers. All 30 British fatalities were TUI customers, plus two Germans
and a Belgian, while many of those wounded were also clients.

Before the attack, Tunisia accounted for almost 500,000 TUI holidays - about 3
per cent of the total - of which 300,000 were from the UK and about 100,000 were
winter breaks. Mr Long said that the group managed and leased 24 hotels and
resorts in the country which were now "empty or suffering very low occupancy".

He said that senior executives were "maintaining a liaison" with the Tunisian
government and had met the prime minister, but he did not expect a return to the
country "any time soon". He said: "Until the official travel advice changes
there's nothing we can do."

To mitigate the loss of Tunisia as a destination, TUI has "remixed capacity" by
putting on 18 additional flights to destinations including the Canaries, the
Balearics, Bulgaria and Cape Verde.

The predicted hit on TUI's full-year profits from Tunisia is higher than the £20
million ((EURO)28 million) cited by Thomas Cook, although Mr Long expressed
surprise at the £5 million ((EURO)7 million) hit taken by his rival against the
financial crisis in Greece, which accounts for about 10 per cent of TUI's tour
operations. "Greece softened a little for two weeks then bounced back quickly;
to be honest, so we didn't really see any impact," Mr Long said. Asked why
Thomas Cook had suffered a £5 million hit, he said: "I don't know."

Despite the Tunisian tragedy, TUI reported an 18 per cent jump in earnings
before interest, tax and amortisation to (EURO)194 million - or up 13 per cent
excluding the positive impact of currency translation and the timing of Easter -
in the three months to the end of June, from revenues up 6 per cent to
(EURO)5.08 billion.

It said that, based on current trading, it was confident of delivering
underlying earnings growth for the full year of between 12.5 per cent and 15 per
cent, while compound growth over the next three years would be at least 10 per
cent. The company, created from the merger of Britain's TUI Travel and TUI AG,
its German majority shareholder, said that its summer programme was 86 per cent
sold, in line with last year, with average selling prices up 2 per cent. In the
UK it is 91 per cent sold, ahead of last year, with customer numbers up 5 per
cent and the selling price up 1 per cent.

Mr Long forecast that this year's 5 per cent increase in capacity would probably
be followed by an increase of 3 per cent to 4 per cent next year. He said that
he was "feeling quite good about where we are" amid growing consumer confidence
in the UK. "People are spending more on leisure, which manifested itself in a 5
per cent increase in passenger numbers and a 16 per cent increase in long haul,
so people are spending more."

He said that the most popular long-haul destinations were Mexico and Jamaica
while the top short-haul destinations were the Spanish islands.

Shares of TUI closed up 6.6 per cent, or 69p, to to £11.14p.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             August 14, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TUI counts the cost of Tunisian terrorist attack

BYLINE: Chris Kelsey

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 481 words


TRAVEL business TUI has revealed the cost to its operations of the terrorist
attack in Tunisia this summer.

The company - which owns First Choice and Thomson - said yesterday that the cost
of the beach massacre could be as much as £23m. The attack in June claimed the
lives of 38 holidaymakers including 30 UK nationals, who were TUI customers. Two
other tourists with the company from Germany and one from Belgium also died.
Most of those injured were also its customers.

Tourists were flown home from the North African country and the travel operator
has cancelled holidays there, with the UK Foreign Office and other governments
still advising against visits.

The cost of the flights home was £7m while the impact of empty hotels in a
region that normally accounts for just under half a million TUI visitors a year
is expected at £18m to £21m.

Together with other costs, the total impact is seen at £25m to £32m, a
spokeswoman for the company said.

Tunisia has in the past represented 3% of the company's annual tour operator
programmes. TUI set out details of the impact in a trading update for the third
quarter to the end of June.

Joint chief executives Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long said: "This quarter was
marked by the tragic events in Tunisia at the end of June.

"Supporting our customers, their families and our colleagues through this sad
time remains our highest priority.

"We are very proud of the commitment and dedication our colleagues have shown
throughout this unprecedented situation."

Mr Long described the attack as a "human tragedy that completely overshadowed
our quarter". He said it was "the most horrific event I and my company have ever
had to deal with".

TUI also said that bookings to Greece in late June and the first half of July
were hit by economic uncertainty in the region.

But Mr Long said that overall there had been no impact as after a slowdown in
bookings there had been a recovery.

The figures come after rival Thomas Cook revealed a £25m hit to earnings from
events in Tunisia and Greece.

Mr Long said that after the Tunisia attack, 18 additional flights were laid on
to bring holidaymakers home, including 13 from the UK, four from Belgium and one
from the Netherlands.

Most of those with trips booked to Tunisia were re-booked on 26 extra flights to
13 destinations including the Balearic Islands, mainland Spain and Cyprus.

Mr Long said: "Our priority has been to support our customers, their families
and colleagues impacted by this horrendous event.

"Both I and all my colleagues still remain in deep shock as a result of the
tragic loss of life and injuries to our customers."

Despite the tragedy, TUI delivered an 18% rise in underlying earnings for the
quarter to £138m. Shares rose 8%.

Mr Long said summer trading remained "robust" while bookings for the winter were
in line with expectations and there had been a good start for the summer 2016
period.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thomson and First Choice owner TUI has said the terrorist massacre in
Tunisia will have an impact on earnings Rui Vieira

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     August 15, 2015 Saturday 11:09 AM GMT

'Bin Laden's son Hamza urges terror attack' on London in al-Qaeda message;
Hazma bin Laden is purported to have urged terror attacks on London and in the
US in the message

BYLINE: Hardeep Matharu

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 325 words


Al-Qaeda has released a message claiming to show Osama bin Laden's son Hamza
urging terrorist attacks to be carried out in London and in other countries
allied to the US.

Hamza bin Laden, believed to be in his mid-20s and reportedly known as the
'crown prince of terror', has been touted as a future leader of al-Qaeda.

In the message, which was shared on Twitter, he calls for lone wolf jihadist
attacks on America and its allies and marks out London, Washington, Paris and
Tel Aviv as specific  targets.

The message made no mention of Isis.

Read more: Bin Laden documents: - Family letters talk of meeting wife in
paradise and not trusting Iranians'Osama Bin Laden was an unarmed elderly
'invalid' when Navy Seals killed him'Osama bin Laden's family members killed in
plane crash at Hampshire's Blackbushe Airport

Rita Katz, director of Site, a terror intelligence group, tweeted: "Hamza Bin
Laden, son of Usamah bin Laden [sic], gives strategies in continuing global
jihad in audio message.

"Hamza Bin Laden lived the life of jihad with his father throughout AQ's
[al-Qaeda] creation in Afghanistan.

"With Hamza, AQ hopes to renew the popularity of AQ by reviving the brand of 'AQ
= Bin Laden'.

"AQ leadership wants Hamza as a future leader: someone loved and inspirational,
without a negative reputation or participation in infighting.

"Hamza Bin Laden calls to move the war from Kabul, Gaza and Baghdad, to
Washington, London, Paris and Tel-Aviv. Urges: 'This is your duty'.

"Hamza Bin Laden urged lone wolf attacks in the US and the West; targeting of
Jewish American interests globally."

It is believed that the message was recorded prior to June but has only just
been released.

Since Osama bin Laden's death in Pakistan in 2011 at the hands of US special
forces troops, the terrorist group has been led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, who was
his right-hand man.

It is believed Hamza bin Laden took part in attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan
as early as ten years ago.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 16, 2015 Sunday

Pakistan army chief condemns terror attack on minister

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by Pakistani TV channel Geo News website on 16 August

Rawalpindi: Chief of Army Staff General Raheel Sharif on Sunday condemned the
terrorist attack on the office of Punjab Home Minister Shuja Khanzada in Attock
which claimed the retired colonel's life.

"Such dastardly coward attempts cannot dent our national resolve to eliminate
the menace (of terrorism). Khanzada Shaheed was a bold officer whose sacrifice
for the greater cause of cleansing Pakistan (of terrorism) will not go waste,"
the army chief was quoted as saying in an ISPR statement.

According to Director-General ISPR Major-General Asim Bajwa, the army chief has
directed intelligence agencies to help find the perpetrators behind the
terrorist attack.

A former army-man and commander of the National Action Plan (NAP) against
terrorist in Punjab province, retired Colonel Shuja Khanzada was among at least
10 people killed in the suicide bombing in Shadi Khan village in Attock
district.

Rescue workers and army personnel still trying to rescue several people trapped
under the rubble of the destroyed office building.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 0000gmt 16 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       August 16, 2015 Sunday 6:45 AM GMT

Thomas Cook CANCELS holidays to Tunisia over fears of another ISIS terror attack

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 380 words


THOMAS Cook has cancelled all holidays to Tunisia until next year over fears
that Britons could be hit by another terror attack.

IG

Seifeddine Rezgui slaughtered 30 Britons in June

The travel firm had been taking bookings to the African country - where 30
British holidymakers were slaughtered in June - from October 31.

But it has now axed all trips until next February after the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel to Tunisia.

Islamic State gunman Seifeddine Rezgui also wounded 26 Britons after opening
fire in Sousse, a popular Tunisian resort, on June 26.

Eight other tourists - from were Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Russia and Portugal
- were gunned to death by Rezgui.

Related articles  Did Nostradamus predict ISIS rise? 16th century warnings of
terror...  Osama bin Laden's son urges attacks in Britain and America saying...

A Thomas Cook spokesman said: "In light of these developments, and given that we
have no clear indication as to when the FCO travel advice may change, Thomas
Cook can confirm that it has taken the decision to cancel all bookings to
Tunisia up until 13 February 2016."

He added that customers can cancel their holidays for free - or travel to
another "winter sun" hotspot, such as the Canary Islands and Turkey.

The group previously sent up to 700,000 tourists to Tunisia each year.

GETTY

The ISIS gunman was a 23-year-old student

GETTY

He was trained to carry out the attack at a Libyan terror camp

Rezgui, who was studying aviation at a local university, was shot dead by police
after the massacre.

23-year-old had never been abroad and was not known to the Tunisian authorities,
according to Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid.

He was trained at the same Libyan terror camp as the gunmen who killed 24 at a
museum in Tunis - the country's capital - earlier this year.

21 people, mostly tourists were murdered by Yassine Labidi, Saber Khachnaoui and
a third attacker at Bardo National Museum in March.

Labidi and Khachnaoui were killed by police but the third attacker is still on
the run.

Related articles Vile ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi 'repeatedly raped
American hostage before her death' ISIS recruiters are 'prowling' streets of
Britain, Muslim leaders warn MAPPED: Terrifying growth of ISIS in just ONE year
laid bare

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 16, 2015 Sunday 12:26 AM GMT

Thomas Cook AXES holidays to Tunisia amid fears of another terror attack;
The travel firm had been taking bookings from October 31, just four months on
from IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui's beach massacre of 30 Brits in Sousse

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,BUSINESS NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words


Thomas Cook has axed holidays to Tunisia until 2016 over fears of another terror
attack.

The travel firm had been taking bookings from October 31, just four months on
from IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui's beach massacre of 30 Brits in Sousse.

But after the Foreign & Commonwealth Office extended a warning not to travel it
has cancelled trips until next February.

Thomas Cook's website said: "In light of these developments, and given that we
have no clear indication as to when the FCO travel advice may change, Thomas
Cook can confirm that it has taken the decision to cancel all bookings to
Tunisia up until 13 February 2016."

The group previously sent up to 700,000 tourists to Tunisia every year.

It comes just days after it emerged the company announced they would take a £20m
hit this year after the terrorist attack in Sousse.

More than 15,000 Brits were evacuated after IS trained terrorist Seifeddine
Rezgui sprayed bullets at holidaymakers in the beach resort of Sousse, killing
30 Brits.

Thomas Cook bosses held a meeting on Friday where they announced they would be
delaying flights to the country until next year.

A Thomas Cook spokeswoman added: "Customers due to travel up to 13 February 2016
will be able to cancel or amend their holiday free of charge.

"Those who wish to amend to another popular winter sun destination, such as the
Canary Islands or Turkey, will be provided with a £50 holiday voucher per adult
to re-book their holiday.

"Customers who wish to re-book for a Summer 15 or Summer 16 holiday instead will
also be offered free amendments to an alternative Thomas Cook holiday of their
choice, paying only if there is a difference in price.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"Thomas Cook plans to restart its flight and holiday programme to Tunisia from
14th February 2016, operating three flights a week departing Sundays."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 17, 2015 Monday

Pakistan PM orders security review after terror attack on minister

LENGTH: 600 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website

Islamabad: Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif last night ordered urgent internal
security review.

Sources in the ruling PML-N informed The Nation that immediately after the
suicide attack, PM Nawaz ordered inquiry into the matter. He directed Interior
Minister Ch Nisar Ali Khan to identify the reasons of security apparatus'failure
in tracing and tracking down the culprits when Khanzada was already receiving
the life threats.

On the other hand military top brass has also taken the matter seriously with
Army Chief General Raheel Sharif in his condemnation statement on the attack on
Punjab Home Minister directed the intelligence agencies to help find the
perpetrators of the attack.

Sources in the ruling Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) informed that Premier
Shairf would likely be calling a high-level meeting on security in a next couple
of days, most probably the apex forum of Committee on National Security of the
Cabinet would be used to revisit the security arrangements with the aim to plug
the loopholes in the functioning of intelligence and law enforcement agencies.

A source in the government informed that Federal Interior Minister Ch. Nisar Ali
Khan for quite sometime was stressing the point for activation of National
Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA) the body not operational right now. The body
was envisaged to provide a platform to pool intelligence agencies input and then
to formulate a cohesive and effective plan to hunt down terrorists through law
enforcement agencies.

The upcoming meeting on security matters would likely be taking some concrete
measures toward activation of NACTA and surely Interior Minister Ch. Nisar Ali
Khan would be pressing it in the meeting to be attended by both civil and
military leadership, the source added.

Sources informed that Premier Sharif was very much disturbed over the suicide
attack and termed it a big blow to the government's efforts to improve law and
order situation making the country attractive for more foreign investment.

It was more disturbing for the Premier that Punjab Home Minister was attacked
even after he was receiving life threats for past several weeks probably
following the killing of some top leaders of banned Lashkar-i-Jhangvi a month
ago in South Punjab in a police encounter.

Sources in the government further informed that there was general agreement that
the civil and military intelligence agencies should coordinate and collaborate
in their hunt of militants across the country but when it comes to practice
there is minimal coordination between them. All what both the civil and military
leadership will going to do in their upcoming meeting on security will be to
bring all this in some formal agreement, most probably by activating the forum
of NACTA into a real vibrant entity, these sources added.

Meanwhile Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in a statement has said; "sacrifices of
our brave nation and valiant heroes like Shuja Khanzda would decimate the
designs of coward terrorists and they will be chased to their last hideout and
eliminated with national resolve and unity.

He reaffirmed the commitment and determination of the government for pursuing
the National Action Plan against terrorism with full force and directed for
pre-emptive security strategy to counter the terrorist planning.

The Prime Minister urged the law enforcement agencies to not lower their guards
till the elimination of last terrorist. He stressed for the change of tactics
and go for preventive operational methodology.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 17 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 17, 2015 Monday 12:12 PM GMT

Israel on verge of sending troops into Syria over increased threat of terrorist
attack;
The Israeli Defence Force is reportedly carrying out manoeuvres to test their
capability to launch an attack in the Golan Heights

BYLINE: Caroline Mortimer

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 346 words


The Israeli Defence Force (IDF) is believed to be preparing for a possible
ground operation in Syria.

Local news channel, Channel 2, reported a large scale drill by military forces
along the border on Sunday which simulated a possible incursion into Syrian
territory and the evacuation of Israeli citizens from nearby border towns.

According to another channel, Channel 10, the drill also prepared for a
sophisticated attack by Isis on Israeli troops.

It comes after a senior officer said recent attempts by Hezbollah to carry out
terror attacks against Israel from the Golan Heights were orchestrated by Iran.

Read More:What is Hezbollah's game in Syria? The view from Jerusalem and
BeirutSyria civil war: The Israeli hospitals treating wounded soldiers from the
violence across the borderIsrael accused of launching air strikes near Damascus
in act of 'aggression against Syria'

According to Haaretz, the Israeli Air Force carried out a bomb attack on
suspected militants after an attempt to plant an IED along the border fence
between Israel and Syria back in April was foiled.

An official told reporters during a briefing on Sunday: "It's clear that Iran is
behind all of the terror attacks here (in the Golan) in the past two years.

He said. "The Iranians are using the border - they establish units - whether
it's [Imad] Mughniyeh, [Samir] Kuntar, and more - to carry out the attacks."

The military released a video of the attack on Sunday.

.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0;
overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; }.embed-container iframe,.embed-container
object,.embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width:
100%; height: 100%; }

There have been several Israeli air strikes against Syrian territory since the
civil war began in 2011.

In January, an airstrike on a convoy in the Syrian side of the Golan Heights was
believed to have killed a top Hezbollah commander, the Times of Israel reports.

The Shi'a Islamist militant group retaliated with an attack which killed two IDF
soldiers. In pictures: Syria air strikes (2014)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 17, 2015 Monday 11:17 AM GMT

Pictured: The sawn-off shotgun used by Man Monis in the Lindt siege terror
attack on Sydney's Martin Place

BYLINE: CANDACE SUTTON FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 473 words



     ·     First photo of the shotgun Man Monis used in the Lindt cafe siege
     ·    The illegal shortened firearm was cut with a hacksaw from 1.2m to 58cm
     ·    The Lindt cafe siege inquest which resumed on Monday will investigate
          who supplied the French made 12 gauge pump action firearm


This is the 58cm long sawn-off pump action shotgun used by gunman Man Monis in
the Lindt cafe siege last December.

The French-made La Salle 12-gauge shotgun, cut down both at the barrel and butt
stock, is pictured next to an original model of the illegally modified firearm
to demonstrate how it had been cut down using a coarse hacksaw blade to make it
concealable.

The weapon was shortened from 1.2 metres to 58 centimetres, probably by someone
who knew what they were doing, counsel assisting the Lindt Cafe siege inquest
Jeremy Gormly SC told the hearing on Wednesday.

Scroll down for video

The rare 50-year-old firearm has a US stamp on it, but there is no record of a
gun with that serial number being imported into the US or ­Australia.

Mr Gormly said Monis had 'decided to enter the Lindt cafe with a hidden gun and
enter a siege' in which cafe manager Tori Johnson, barrister Katrina Dawson and
Monis himself died.

The shotgun by Monis to murder Mr Johnson was legally brought into Australia but
got lost in a 'grey market' during the national buyback scheme.

The weapon was probably never returned as part of the 1996 buyback program
following the Port Arthur massacre.

While Monis was 'at no time issued a firearm, and at no time did he legally own
or import a firearm'. he had access to weapons for a short period in 1997 before
legislation was tightened.

Monis held a security guard licence from 1997 to 2000, which would have allowed
him to carry a pistol while on duty from March to June 1997.

In May 1997, Monis was issued with a security weapons training certificate
permitting him carry a licensed revolver or semi-automatic pistol during work
hours.

But he was denied a security guard licence in 2012 under updated legislation
because he was not a 'fit and proper person'.

The Lindt cafe inquest resumed on Monday for a second set of hearings which will
try to determine who supplied the firearm to Man Monis and why he was out on
bail at the time of the siege when he had been charged with serious offences
including 43 sex offences and accessory to the murder of his former wife, Noleen
Pal.

An expert committee including former royal commissioner Ian Temby QC has been
formed to examine the bail issues.

The siege inquest was told on Monday that Man Monis was was 'prone to huge mood
swings' and that he was 'friendly one minute and weird, angry and dismissive the
next'.

It was also revealed that he had left his homeland of Iran after ripping off
families in his tourism business of $550,000 and that his Iranian wife
considered he had brought 'shame on the family'.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

Pakistan: Punjab vows to boost anti-terror fight after suicide attack incident

LENGTH: 489 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 18 August

Lahore: The Punjab cabinet expressed its determination on Monday [17 August] to
eliminate terrorism from the province and the country.

A meeting presided over by Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif condemned the
assassination of provincial law minister retired Col Shuja Khanzada in a suicide
attack on Sunday [16 August] and offered Fateha for the victims.

A resolution adopted at the meeting paid tribute to the slain minister for
laying down his life in the war against terrorism and pledged to further his
mission of eradicating terrorism.

The cabinet expressed sympathies with the bereaved families.

The chief minister acknowledged that the late minister had played a prominent
role in the setting up of the Counter-Terrorism Force and integrated command,
communication and control centre.

He said Khanzada's services for maintaining law and order and eradicating
terrorism from the province would always be remembered and the federal
government would be recommended to confer the country's highest civil award on
him for his invaluable services.

He said the terrorists and their facilitators would be wiped out and no effort
would be spared to eradicate terrorism from Punjab and the entire country.

Sharif said he himself would lead the war against terrorism.

He said the mission of Khanzada would be furthered and no compromise would be
made in this regard. "It is now or never."

The cabinet resolved to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the chief minister in
the war against terror.

Meanwhile, the Pakistan Tehrik-i-Insaf and Jamat-i-Islami have submitted
separate resolutions to the Punjab Assembly secretariat condemning the Attock
suicide attack and paying tribute to the brave minister and expressing support
for the ongoing operation against terrorists.

Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Mahmoodur Rashid extended PTI's
[Pakistan Tehrik-i-Insaf] unconditional support for the war against terror and
demanded a thorough probe into the suicide attack.

He urged the government to fully implement the National Action Plan till the
restoration of peace in the country.

Rashid led a PTI delegation to the Lahore residence of Khanzada to offer
condolences to the bereaved family.

Civil society activists also visited Khanzada's residence and laid floral
wreaths and lit candles there as a mark of respect.

But the Pakistan Awami Tehrik [PAT] criticized the Punjab government for its
failure to provide adequate security to the late home minister despite the fact
that he had received threats to his life.

PAT General Secretary Khurram Nawaz Gandapur said the ruling family did not
provide even a single bullet-proof vehicle to the minister, while they
themselves enjoyed a security cover of 2,000 policemen and never travelled
without a convoy of bullet-proof jeeps.

He demanded a thorough investigation into the security lapse.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 18 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

Greek foreign minister condemns Bangkok terror attack

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report in English by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA
website

[Unattributed report: "Foreign Ministry Condemns Attack in Bangkok"]

We unequivocally condemn yesterday's deadly bombing attack on innocent citizens
and tourists at a religious place of worship, the Hindu Erawan Shrine, in the
centre of Thailand's capital city, a foreign ministry announcement said on
Tuesday [18 August].

"We express our deep grief and condolences to the victims' loved ones and to the
people of Thailand, and we assure them that Greece remains at the side of all
those fighting in the struggle against terrorism. The Foreign Ministry and the
Greek Embassy in Bangkok are in ongoing communication and readiness to offer any
and all assistance that may be needed by Greek citizens who are in Thailand".

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
1208 gmt 18 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 11:00 PM GMT

ISIS using 'student loans to fund terror attacks'

BYLINE: Harry Kemble

LENGTH: 327 words


PAYDAY and student loans are being cashed in to fund ISIS terror acts, it has
been warned.

AP/GETTY

ISIS: Student loans are thought to be used to fund terror acts

The extremist organisation have traditionally struggled to move huge amounts of
money between bank accounts.

Instead it has used resources - such as oil - on the ground in Syria and Iraq to
bankroll its bloody campaign.

But with oil prices plummeting across the Middle East fighters have had to look
for other ways to fund the regime.

Royal United Services Institute - an independent think tank - has reported low
budget lone wolf terror attacks are being funded using everyday student loans.

Student grants to cover living costs - amounting to £8,000 - and payday loans
can offer borrowers up to £2,500.

The latter can be put into the borrower's bank account within 15 minutes.

The RUSI

The RUSI said: "For those planning terrorist attacks, the high interest on such
products are of no consequence.

"These sums may seem small - but individual attacks are cheap to fund."

The 7/7 bombings in London are estimated to have cost as little as £8,000 - the
same price as a student grant, the RUSI said.

Around 75% of planned attacks by European jihadis between 1994 and 2013 cost
just £6,380.

"The potential use of such tools for financing terrorist attacks is not
fantasy," the RUSI added.

A London court heard in 2012 a group of low budget terrorists accused of
planning a suicide attack tried to fund its operation using a payday lender.

The Met Police has also highlighted the problem in "a number of cases" where
dodgy applications for payday loans were made.

Related articles ISIS couple Queen bomb plot: Jihad nuts 'poised to attack'
Brave schoolboy, 12, risks life to repair guns for troops in fight against ISIS
ISIS 'Mein Kampf' emerges: Secret document calls for 'end of the world' war

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 3:35 PM GMT

Bangkok bombing: Teenage London law student among victims killed in Thailand
terror attack;
19-year-old Chan Vivian Wing-Yan is reportedly among the victims who died in
Monday's explosion, with authorities still yet to confirm a death toll

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


A London-based student who died in the terror attack blasts of Bangkok has been
named as Chan Vivian Wing-Yan.

The 19-year-old, from Hong Kong but studying in London, was among at least 20
victims of the blast which also left more than 100 injured on Monday evening.

Miss Wing-Yan was named by the Thai Society at the School of Oriental and
African Studies, based at the University of London, on social media, prompting
pals to take to Facebook and pay tribute to her memory.

The tributes came as UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said a British
national, living in Hong Kong, was also among the dead.

It is not yet clear if Mr Hammond was referring to Miss Wing-Yan, or another
victim, however a spokeswoman for the Foreign Office declined to comment any
further.

In an open letter, the Thai Society said: "We would like to send our heartfelt
condolences to her family and friends during this difficult moment."

Hundreds posted touching tributes, while others simply wrote the words: "RIP".

Serena Wong said: "I really treasure the memories we had, and am sure you'll be
a joyful angel in heaven."

Shocking new footage shows moment of Bangkok blast

Ives Kwok wrote: "My friend, I know u will be fine and have a very happy life in
heaven with our God. Let's meet up somewhere in the sky! I promise! Goodbye my
friend."

Jacqueline Wong posted: "Although I don't really know you, I know you are a
cheerful and nice person. I regret that I didn't try to make friends with you
when I saw you [...] your sweet smile will be always in our heart."

Miss Wing-Yan studied law at Harrow International School, linked with the
prestigious Harrow School based in north west London.

Friends told how she was a passionate food blogger, and loved sharing her snaps
on Instagram.

Fellow student Michelle Lou said: "She was a really kind and cheerful person in
general - she really loved to travel around and just go to a lot of different,
good restaurants."

Popular singer Joey Yung shared a snap with her 300,000 Facebook fans, also
paying tribute to the teenage blast victim.

Singer FB

The explosion, which took place at 7pm local time, has seen investigators ramp
up security throughout the country and launch a manhunt for a suspect in a
yellow t-shirt, wearing glasses and donning a backpack.

David Cameron said he was "deeply saddened" by the death of a British national
in the bomb attack on a popular shrine.

CCTV reveals 'Bangkok bomber' taking off backpack ahead of Thailand blast

"Deeply saddened to hear a British national was killed in the horrific Bangkok
bombing," the Prime Minister said in a statement posted on Twitter.

"My thoughts are with her family and all those affected."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 2:23 PM GMT

Bangkok bombing: British woman dead following terror attack that rocked
Thailand's capital city;
The Foreign Office continues to warn Brits in Thailand of a serious alert for
further terrorist activities

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words


A British national was killed in the attack on the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok, it
has emerged.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed the news in a statement today.

She has not yet been formally identified but she was living in Hong Kong and had
taken a trip to Thailand.

So far she is only UK victim of the horrific blast which killed at least 20
people.

The explosion, which took place at 7pm local time, has seen investigators ramp
up security throughout the country and launch a manhunt for a suspect in a
yellow t-shirt, wearing glasses and donning a backpack.

Another of the victims was studying law at a college in London, it has emerged.

Vivian Chan Wing-Yan, 19, was a law student at Harrow International School.

Friends described her as "really kind and cheerful."

Vivian was from Hong Kong.

CCTV footage from the scene appears to show the man removing his packpack at
6.40pm on Monday - just minutes before the deadly blast.

He left before the explosion however, heading towards the upscale Grand Hyatt
Erawan hotel, just yards away.

"The yellow shirt guy is not just the suspect," police Lt Gen Prawut Thavornsiri
said today.

"He is the bomber."

British tourist Tamar Johnson, 20, who was staying at the Holiday Inn on Silon
Road Bangkok, was just moments away from the explosion.

She said: "Me and my sister were in the sky bar at the Lebua Hotel when we heard
a huge explosion.

"At first we thought it was just thunder because there's been electrical storms
all day so we didn't think much of it.

"Then my Mum phoned me from the hotel.

"She was in absolute hysterics shouting about a bomb so we sprinted back to our
hotel.

"It was chaos, people were running around and there were police and ambulances
everywhere.

"I'm almost certain we heard another explosion when we were running back. It's
terrifying." Dash cam captures moment of Bangkok explosion in tourist hotspot

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 1:25 PM GMT

Bangkok blast: Teenage London law student killed in Thailand terror attack

BYLINE: David Trayner

LENGTH: 1030 words


A BRITISH woman was among those killed in the Bangkok Bombing, it has been
confirmed.

FACEBOOK

TRAGEDY: Vivian Chan, 19, was among those killed in the attack

GETTY

CONDEMNATION: Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has condemned the attack

London law student Vivian Chan was travelling with a friend who was also killed
in the blast, with at least 20 confirmed dead.

The 19-year-old's friends from the Thai Society at the School of Oriental and
African Studies released a statement following her death.

They said: "We.. are deeply saddened to hear the news of Miss Chan 'Vivian'
Wing-Yan, a Law Student at SOAS, who passed away yesterday after a bomb blast in
central Bangkok.

"We understand that Miss Chan, and her friend, were travelling in Thailand.
According to sources, she recently posted a picture on an Instagram account of
her food blog, @kittealuvfood, appreciating local delicacies.

"We would like to send our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends
during this difficult moment."

A friend wrote on her Facebook page: "You were such a cheerful person and had
one of the greatest smiles that I have seen. We, the Huis, are saddened with the
loss. I still can't believe this is real...RIP Vivian. You will always be
remembered."

{ var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName[0]; if ) return; js = d.createElement;
js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";
fjs.parentNode.insertBefore;});

I miss you, I miss your smile.I love you, my soulmate.From Jovel Lam

Posted by R.I.P Vivian Chan Pray for Bangkok on Tuesday, 18 August 2015

Miss Chan was killed after an explosive device was planted at the Erawan Shine
on Monday - sparking a man hunt for a bomber wearing a yellow t-shirt.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "The loss of life and injury in Bangkok
is horrific and I condemn this callous act of violence against completely
innocent and unsuspecting members of the public.

"I can confirm that one British national, a resident of Hong Kong, lost her life
in the attack. British Embassy staff in Thailand are assisting her family at
this very difficult time.

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and loved ones, and with the
Thai people.

"Foreign Office officials are in close contact with the Thai authorities and
have offered UK assistance in the investigation of this abhorrent act.

"British nationals in Thailand should check the Foreign Office website for the
latest travel advice."

brightcove.createExperiences;

Five Thais, four Chinese, including two from Hong Kong, two Malaysians and one
person from Singapore were also killed in the rush hour explosion at the Erawan
shrine, in the Thai capital.

Police are yet to reveal the nationalities of the seven remaining victims, so
the British death toll could rise.

British tourists have been warned to be vigilant as the Foreign Office says
there is a 'high threat' of terrorism in the country.

A spokesman said: "There is a high threat from terrorism.

"Bomb and grenade attacks have been indiscriminate, including in places visited
by expatriates and foreign travellers."

REUTERS

MASSACRE: Security personnel stand beside victims of the attack covered by white
sheets

Footage emerged of a second suspected attack in the Thai capital this morning.

A video showed an explosive device detonating after being thrown off a bridge
but no-one was injured.

No-one has claimed responsibility for either attack but Thai prime minister
Prayuth Chan-ocha has suggested an anti-goverment movement known as the Red
Shirts may be behind it.

Police have launched a manhunt for a man seen apparently leaving a backpack at
the shrine about 20 minutes before the blast.

They have confirmed the man, pictured on CCTV footage in a yellow shirt, was the
bomber.

Police Lt Gen Prawut Thavornsiri said: "The yellow shirt guy is not just the
suspect. He is the bomber."

AP

WANTED: The suspect pictured on CCTV shortly before the blast

The video, taken from cameras near the glittering shrine in the city's bustling
commercial hub, shows the young man walk calmly into the tourist attraction with
a backpack and sit down.

Moments later he takes the backpack off, stands up and walks out holding only a
blue plastic bag and what appears to be a mobile phone. The rucksack is left by
a fence as tourists mill around, taking photographs of a statue of the Hindu god
Brahma.

Footage taken from a different angle shows the man, with shaggy, black hair and
wearing what appear to be wrist bands, leaving the temple and heading towards
the upscale Grand Hyatt Erawan hotel, just yards away.

The time stamp on the video at that point is just after 6.40pm - 20 minutes
before the bomb goes off.

The explosion unleashed havoc. Early responders and journalists who arrived at
the scene were confronted with scenes of blood-smeared pavements, shattered
glass and pieces of human flesh.

GETTY

SADDENED: The Prime Minister said he was 'deeply saddened' by the attack

Prime Minister David Cameron said he was 'deeply saddened' by the British
woman's death.

In a statement posted on Twitter he said: "Deeply saddened to hear a British
national was killed in the horrific Bangkok bombing.

"My thoughts are with her family and all those affected."

EPA

PROBE: Investigators at the bomb site today

Police were deployed to the blood-splattered site on Tuesday, some wearing white
gloves and carrying plastic bags, searching for clues.

A pipe bomb inside the shrine is thought to have caused the blast.

Another bomb, which failed to go off, was found opposite the complex.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 9:45 AM GMT

Bangkok bomb attack: Police release CCTV images of suspect hunted over explosion
that claimed more than 20 lives;
Yesterday's terror attack in the heart of the city has been described as
Thailand's "worst ever attack" by Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words


Cops probing yesterday's tragic Bangkok bomb attack have released an image of a
suspect they claim is shown in CCTV footage placing a plastic bag on the ground
moments before the explosion.

The terror attack claimed the lives of more than 20 people, and injured 120 in
the busy tourist area of Ratchaprasong, central Bangkok.

The blast took place near the popular Erawan Shrine, where the suspect was seen
15 minutes before the blast.

Police investigating the attack have released the images taken from CCTV footage
which shows the suspect wearing a yellow t-shirt and glasses.

Bangkok

It is understood he may be from an anti-government group based in the north-east
of Thailand however the suspect has not been named.

Speaking after the attack, Thailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said:
"This is the worst incident that has ever happened in Thailand.

"There have been minor bombs or just noise, but this time they aim for innocent
lives.

"They want to destroy our economy, our tourism."

Across the country, security has been ramped up following the attack -
especially at key tourist hotspots.

British tourist Tamar Johnson, 20, who was staying at the Holiday Inn on Silon
Road Bangkok, was just moments away from the explosion.

She said: "Me and my sister were in the sky bar at the Lebua Hotel when we heard
a huge explosion.

"At first we thought it was just thunder because there's been electrical storms
all day so we didn't think much of it.

"Then my Mum phoned me from the hotel.

"She was in absolute hysterics shouting about a bomb so we sprinted back to our
hotel.

"It was chaos, people were running around and there were police and ambulances
everywhere.

"I'm almost certain we heard another explosion when we were running back. It's
terrifying."

Of those who are confirmed to have died, a number are said to be foreign
tourists.

Shocking new footage shows moment of Bangkok blast

However the nationalities of those involved and the exact death toll is yet to
be fully confirmed by investigators.

No terror group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.

Following the blast, a police chief confirmed that those injured in the attack
were legally entitled to financial compensation.

Huge explosion rocks central Bangkok - casualties reported

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 9:00 AM GMT

VIDEO: ANOTHER Thai terror attack as explosive thrown from bridge

BYLINE: David Trayner

LENGTH: 270 words


BANGKOK has been rocked by a second suspected terror attack in two days.

brightcove.createExperiences;

A small explosive was thrown from a bridge over a river in central Bangkok,
Reuters is reporting.

The unidentified man threw the explosive near a busy pier on the city's Chao
Phraya river and it landed in a canal.

No injuries have been reported but police officers are at the scene.

Colonel Natakit Siriwongtawan, deputy police chief of Klongsan district, said:
"If it hadn't fallen in the water then it certainly would have caused injuries."

The explosion follows a larger blast in the Thai capital on Monday, which killed
22 and injured at least 123.

The Foreign Office warned of a 'high threat' of terrorism but stopped short of
advising against travel to the Thai capital.

Hong Kong, which lost at least two people in Monday's rush hour blast, is
advising its citizens to avoid non-essential trips to Bangkok as it raised its
travel alert to red.

FACEBOOK

BLAST: A still from a video of the blast, next to a bridge in central Bangkok

Travel advice issued by the British Foreign Office said: "Local police have
confirmed a bomb explosion at 7pm on 17 August 2015 at the Ratchprasong
intersection next to the Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok. There are reports of
casualties.

"The British Embassy is in contact with local authorities.

"You should monitor news reports, follow the advice of local authorities and
take extra care.

"There is a high threat from terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tourists killed by bomb in heart of Bangkok;
Nineteen dead in terrorist attack on shrine next to Thai capital's shopping
malls and hotels

BYLINE: David Eimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 685 words


A BOMB exploded in a popular tourist area of central Bangkok yesterday, killing
at least 19 people, including three holidaymakers, and injuring more than 120,
in the deadliest terrorist attack in Thailand in recent memory.

The device detonated soon after 7pm at the Erawan Shrine, located at the corner
of one of Bangkok's busiest intersections near shopping malls, hotels and
restaurants. Most of those killed are believed to be locals and Chinese
tourists.

"I saw bodies and pieces of flesh in the road. A couple of Chinese people were
lying in the street bleeding from their legs," said Tussi Pajala, a Finnish man
who was eating at a nearby restaurant.

Bodies lay sprawled inside the Hindu shrine, which is both a popular tourist
attraction and a place where locals go to pray, while wrecked motorbikes and
shattered glass littered the Ratchaprasong intersection.

Thailand's police chief, Somyot Poompanmuang, said the bomb was planted inside
the shrine.

"It was a pipe bomb," he said. Thai media quoted police as saying that three
kilograms of TNT had been detonated.

One Thai policeman told The Daily Telegraph that it had been planted by a woman,
although there has been no confirmation. The Bangkok bomb squad is believed to
have later defused another device.

CCTV footage of the blast showed rush hour traffic engulfed in a fireball and
terrified pedestrians fleeing for their lives, while the shockwave from the
explosion smashed and buckled windows.

"I was 40 yards away in the nextdoor mall when I heard a huge explosion. The
windows bent in but didn't give way, otherwise I wouldn't be here now," said
Alan Parkhouse, an Australian who was heading to a restaurant to eat with
friends.

Lucinda-Jane Chastain, a Briton, said the whole building she was in was shaken
by the bomb. "It was just this massive explosive noise. The whole building
shook. All you can see is a horrible mess on the road."

There were chaotic scenes in the immediate aftermath of the explosion, as
ambulances, fire engines and police cars had to contend with Bangkok's
gridlocked rush hour traffic to reach the scene.

The area around the shrine was cordoned off, as rumours spread that more bombs
had been planted in the area, while locals and tourists attempted to find out if
their friends and relations had survived the attack.

One Thai man was searching for his parents. "They were praying at the shrine.
I've tried calling them but I'm not getting any reply. I don't know what to do,"
he said.

Many of those injured were taken to the Police General Hospital, across the road
from the Erawan Shrine.

"We have over 60 injured here," said one nurse, who was close to tears. "There
are no Westerners. The victims are Thais, Chinese, Singapore, Malay and
Filipino."

Other people wounded in the explosion have been taken to hospitals elsewhere in
the Thai www.capital.No one has claimed responsibility for the bomb, which may
also have devastated Thailand's image as the "Land of Smiles". With almost 25
million overseas visitors arriving last year, Thailand's economy is heavily
dependent on tourism.

Prawit Wongsuwan, the defence minister, said: "The perpetrators intended to
destroy the economy and tourism, because the incident occurred in the heart of
the tourism district."

Muslim insurgents in the deep south of the country have been fighting for their
own independent state for decades. In the south, bombs area neardaily reality
alongside shootings and ambushes of security forces, but the rebels have never
before mounted attacks in Bangkok, or ever targeted foreigners.

That has led to speculation that foreign terrorists may be to blame for
yesterday's bombing.

But Thailand has also been gripped by political violence in recent years, with
scores of people dying in Bangkok in 2010.

The military took control of the country last year in a coup, but Thailand
remains deeply divided between the rural poor and the traditional elite and
urban middle classes.

'My parents were praying at the shrine. I've tried calling them but I'm not
getting any reply'

'It was just this massive explosive noise. All you can see is a horrible mess on
the road'

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Debris covers the road in the aftermath of the blast in central
Bangkok. Below left, bomb disposal officers check the area around the Erawan
Shrine for further devices. Below right, paramedics carry away one of the
woundedEPA;AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SHRINE OF SLAUGHTER;
IRISH TERROR IN BANGKOK BOMB ATTACK 19 killed and 120 injured in Thailand's
worst attack Device in popular Hindu temple set off in rush hour

BYLINE: ANDY LINES; PATRICK HILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 756 words


AT least 19 people died and 120 were injured yesterday as a blast tore through
the crowded Erawan Shrine in Bangkok in Thailand's worst attack in memory.

Four foreign tourists were among the dead, though it was unclear last night if
any of the victims were Irish.

One witness described the aftermath of the powerful blast with scattered body
parts throughout the area and several vehicles on fire.

Ex-para John McMahon who served in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo, said: "It was a
massacre. There were body parts everywhere. I went to pick up my girlfriend who
was working very close to the bomb blast. I have seen worse but it was still
very bad."

Mr McMahon, 33, from Liverpool added: "People were running away injured and
crying. Others were sitting in shock. It was horrific. There was rubble and
fires everywhere."

Paramedic Marko Cunningham, who was one of the first on the scene, said: "It was
like a meat market.

"There were bodies everywhere. Some were shredded."

Also at the scene was Alessandro Ursic, who said: "When I arrived they'd already
cleared the bodies from the ground but there were, and still are, pieces of
human flesh strewn around the intersection."

Early reports suggested 3kg of TNT had been stuffed inside a pipe that was then
placed inside the shrine before being remotely detonated.

British expat Lucinda-Jane Chastain, who was working nearby, said: "It was just
this massive explosive noise. The whole building shook.

"It's the last place in the world you'd expect something like this to happen."

National police chief Somyot Poompanmuang said the attack was unprecedented in
the country.

He said: "It was a pipe bomb. It was placed inside the Erawan shrine.

"Whoever planted this bomb is cruel and aimed to kill. Planting a bomb there
means they want to see a lot of people dead."

It was still unclear whether an international terror group such as Islamic State
or al-Qaeda was responsible but initially it appeared more likely to be linked
to domestic politics. Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwan said: "The people who
did it targeted foreigners to damage tourism and the economy. We're not sure if
it is politically motivated, but they aim to harm our economy. We'll hunt them
down."

Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said he had set up a "war room" to co-ordinate
its response. Casualties were ferried to hospitals in taxis as well as a fleet
of ambulances and a nationwide urgent appeal went out for blood donors.

Taxi service Uber even offered free lifts to any potential donors to take them
to nearby hospitals.

Army bomb disposal experts were called in to examine another suspicious package
nearby but later gave the all clear. The Hindu shrine at a busy road junction in
the city centre is popular with thousands of British tourists and also with
Buddhists and visitors from China.

It is in the central business district near many top hotels and exclusive
shopping centres and not far from the British Embassy.

Former England international footballer in the city, wrote on Twitter: "The
scenes are horrid, everyone knows the area and its always busy with people."

Thailand-based journalist Jerry Harmer tweeted: "It doesn't get much worse than
placing a bomb in a crowded shrine in the middle of the shopping district. Pure
evil."

The Foreign Office said it was urgently seeking further information and was in
contact with authorities in Thailand. Bangkok has been relatively peaceful since
a military coup ousted a civilian government in May last year after months of
violent political protests.

The last major bombings occurred on New Year's Eve at the end of 2006, when a
series of blasts at celebrations killed three people and wounded dozens. Those
attacks came just three months after a military coup ousted prime minister
Thaksin Shinawatra, setting off a battle for power among his supporters and
opponents.

Protesters from both sides sometimes faced armed attacks by unknown groups, with
more than 90 people killed in 2010 during pro-Thaksin demonstrations that were
quashed by the army. The focus of the 2010 protests was the same intersection
where yesterday's blast took place.

In March this year, several arrests were made in connection with a grenade that
was thrown at the Criminal Court in Bangkok. Critics of the current military
government say some of the bombings may have been carried out by the junta to
justify its continued suppression of basic rights and liberties.

andy.lines@mirror.co.uk

"It doesn't get much worse than placing a bomb in a crowded shrine. Evil JERRY
HARMER JOURNALIST BASED IN THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEARS Bomb squad at the sceneCARNAGE Victim carried from the scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

UN chief condemns terrorist attack in eastern province of Pakistan

LENGTH: 118 words


United Nations Secretary-General Bam Ki-moon has condemned the bomb attack today
in District Attock, in Pakistan's Punjab Province, and was saddened to learn
that the attack had killed more than a dozen people, including Punjab's Home
Minister, Shuja Khanzada, and injured many others.



"Nothing justifies terrorism," the Secretary-General reiterated in a statement
issued by his spokesperson in New York, and also expressed hope that the
perpetrators would be brought to justice swiftly.

Mr. Ban extended his condolences to the families of the victims and wished the
injured a speedy recovery. He also offered his sympathies to the people and
Government of Pakistan.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 3:16 PM GMT

Thailand's currency sinks to a six-year low after bombing;
The Thai baht fell to its weakest level in more than six years after more than
20 people were killed and 120 wounded in the worst ever terrorist attack on the
country yesterday.

BYLINE: Mark Leftly

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 158 words


The Thai baht fell by as much as 0.8% to 35.648 against the dollar, the lowest
level since April 2009 and worse than during last year's military coup.

Bangkok shares slumped by almost 3%, with tourism-linked companies such as
Airports of Thailand and Central Plaza Hotel particularly hurt.

Analysts warned that there could be more share sell-offs, which would again
damage the currency, because the attack will ruffle the country's tourism
sector.

Tourism accounts for about one-tenth of Thailand's economy and is reaching its
high season.

The attack was carried out at the Erawan Shrine, which is a major tourist
attraction, and resulted in the deaths of foreigners, including Chinese.

The shrine is home to a gilded statue to honour the Brahma God, whose four faces
represent kindness, mercy, sympathy, and impartiality.

Chinese shares also slipped in its late trading, down 6%, which rippled into
depressed trading in neighbouring Asian stock markets.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 2:19 PM GMT

Bangkok blast: The Thai baht sinks to six-year low after bombing;
Thailand's currency has crashed to a six-year low after more than 20 people were
killed and 120 wounded in the worst ever terrorist attack on the country
yesterday.

BYLINE: Mark Leftly

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 158 words


The Thai baht fell by as much as 0.8% to 35.648 against the dollar, the lowest
level since April 2009 and worse than during last year's military coup.

Bangkok shares slumped by almost 3%, with tourism-linked companies such as
Airports of Thailand and Central Plaza Hotel particularly hurt.

Analysts warned that there could be more share sell-offs, which would again
damage the currency, because the attack will ruffle the country's tourism
sector.

Tourism accounts for about one-tenth of Thailand's economy and is reaching its
high season.

The attack was carried out at the Erawan Shrine, which is a major tourist
attraction, and resulted in the deaths of foreigners, including Chinese.

The shrine is home to a gilded statue to honour the Brahma God, whose four faces
represent kindness, mercy, sympathy, and impartiality.

Chinese shares also slipped in its late trading, down 6%, which rippled into
depressed trading in neighbouring Asian stock markets.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 1:28 PM GMT

Egypt makes it illegal for journalists to contradict official account of terror
attacks;
Under new laws, trials for suspected Islamist militants could be fast-tracked
through special courts

BYLINE: Samuel Osborne

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 305 words


Egypt's President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has approved stringent new
counter-terrorism laws establishing special courts and imposing heavy fines on
journalists and bloggers who contradict official accounts of militant attacks.

Under new laws introduced on 17 August, trials for suspected Islamist militants
could be fast-tracked through special courts, with anyone found guilty of
joining a militant group facing 10 years in prison.

The BBC reports that journalists can be fined between 200,000 and 500,000
Egyptian pounds (£16,000-£41,000) for reporting incidents and figures about
terrorist attacks which differ from the Egyptian Defence Ministry's official
accounts. The original draft of the law initially called for an additional
two-year prison sentence.

Amnesty International warned that the legislation would vastly expand measures
that would usually only be invoked during a state of emergency.

In a report released last week, the human-rights group warned that the laws
"will effectively ban rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful
assembly".

The new laws have been introduced following the assassination by car bomb of
Prosecutor General Hisham Barakat in June, which was followed by a succession of
attacks on security forces in North Sinai two days later.

Read more: Egyptian judges shot dead in SinaiEgypt bans girls from wearing
hijabs to school until pubertyMorsi's lawyer appeals against ex-president's
death sentence

The Tahrir Institute for Middle East Policy has said that President Sisi has
ratified over 175 laws since his inauguration in June 2014, following the 2013
military coup to overthrow Egypt's first elected president, Mohamad Morsi of the
Muslim Brotherhood.

Over the past two years, Egypt has been heavily criticised for sentencing 529
supporters of the ousted Muslim Brotherhood to death.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 12:48 AM GMT

Modi wows Dubai: PM makes veiled attack on Pakistan over terrorism as he
addresses Indian diaspora

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 1415 words


The Indian Prime Minister was greeted with 'Marbha NaMo' or 'Welcome Narendra
Modi' along with posters declaring 'Forward Together' at the cricket stadium in
Dubai, which seemed to burst at the seams with the hordes chanting his name and
that of 'Bharat Mata'.

Modi delivered an emphatic speech in his characteristic style of dialogue with
the spectators, and touched on nearly every achievement of his Government on the
domestic as well as diplomatic fronts.

While he targeted opponents at home as well as truant neighbour Pakistan in a
veiled but powerful attack, the emphasis of the Prime Minister remained India's
resolve against terrorism.

Without taking names, the PM indicated "bad times for Dawood Ibrahim" as he
underlined the UAE's cooperative attitude towards the problem of terrorism.

"The Crown Prince of the UAE has made his opposition to terrorism clear in
unambiguous terms. The unequivocal message is that those involved in terrorism
will be punished. Those who need to understand will get the message; samajhdar
ko ishara kaafi hai," Modi said.

"The world dreads terrorism, but India has been bearing the brunt of the problem
for over 40 years now. Our innocent people have been murdered. It is now that
the world has awaken to the fact that terrorism has no borders.

"While I was coming here, Bangkok was rocked by a bomb. Now is the time that
world be divided between nations ranged together for humanism versus those for
terrorism. Such classifications such as 'bad Taliban' and 'good Taliban' will do
no more. Nations will have to decide whether they are for or against terrorism,"
Modi said.

A TEMPLE IN ABU DHABI

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday thanked the UAE government for deciding
to allot a plot of land for building a temple here, the first in the Emirati
capital, describing it as a great step.

A joint statement issued after Modi's talks with UAE leadership said he thanked
the UAE Crown Prince Mohamed Bin Zayed AI Nahya for deciding to allot land for a
temple in Abu Dhabi.

"I am very thankful to the UAE government for their decision to allot land in
order to build a Temple in Abu Dhabi. This is a great step," Modi said in tweet.



While there are two temples in Dubai, one of Lord Shiva and another of Krishna,
there is none in Abu Dhabi.

There are nearly 2.6million Indians in UAE which constitutes 30 per cent of the
total population.

A number of Indians here expressed happiness over UAE Government's decision.

"For many years, the UN resolution on terrorism is hanging fire. The body came
into existence nearly 70 years ago in the aftermath of the two World Wars to
bring succour to nations, but it has failed so far to even define terrorism and
terrorists.

"India's longstanding position has been that the resolution should be discussed
and ratified. Now the Crown Prince has endorsed our position as also our bid for
a permanent seat at the UN Security Council," Modi said.

PM Modi also took potshots at the Congress and previous governments, yet again
without taking names.

"I am fortunate that previous governments have left a number of good things for
me to do. My visit to Dubai and the UAE is one such thing as it comes after 34
years," he said.

In yet another instance, he said: "The travel time to Nepal is less than 70
minutes, but Indian PMs took 17 years to reach there."

Modi also said the UAE had pledged investments to the tune of Rs 4.5 lakh crore
in India.

"In the last one year, our FDI flow has grown 48 per cent. In the last one year,
the image of India has changed, not because of Modi but the 125-crore people of
India.

"India is a young country with 65 per cent people under 35 years of age. I am
saying come to India, make in India and sell across the world," he said.

If a mention of the underdevelopment of Bihar, UP and West Bengal can be
construed in view of the upcoming Assembly polls, then Modi covered that base
too.

Referring to the underdevelopment of eastern states, he said: "States such as
UP, Bihar, Bengal and Assam are in more need of development. If we can balance
the east and west on the scale of development, India will run on the path of
growth. This is why we have already started a campaign for their uplift."

PM paves the way for smooth business

By Mail Today Bureau

Reaching out to investors in the UAE, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that
India has huge investment opportunity as he assured that the problems in setting
up businesses in the country will be removed.

Modi told UAE investors that India has an immediate investment opportunity of
$1trillion and the government will take urgent steps to address concerns of the
businessmen and erase deficit of 34 years.

"I have got some problems in legacy. I cannot take only the good points and
leave aside the problems... Some things were stalled due to the indecisiveness
and lethargy of the governments (in the last)... It is my priority to start
those things," Modi said while addressing business leaders from the UAE here at
the Masdar City.

Modi said India has huge investment opportunities for investors from the UAE in
sectors like infrastructure, energy and real estate and urged them to come to
invest in India and together make the 21st century 'Asia's Century'.

The Prime Minister said all major global institutions such as the IMF, World
Bank and Moody's agree that India is the world's fastest growing economy and it
has huge development potential.

"On one hand, India is growing fast and on the other hand, the world is looking
at Asia. But is Asia complete without UAE? I can clearly see that the UAE should
be at the centre of mainstream of things in Asia. UAE's power and India's
potential can make it Asia's century," he said.

"I will send my commerce minister to try and find solutions to the problems
faced by some UAE investors," he said.

The investors told Modi that they need steps like single window clearance and
cited cumbersome and complex processes for doing business in India.

Modi assured that these problems will be resolved. One of Modi's key priorities
during the visit has been to persuade the UAE administration to invest some of
its $800billion sovereign wealth fund in Indian infrastructure.

Investments from the UAE so far have amounted to $10billion - $3billion in
direct investment and the rest through the stock market.

Mosque visit causes stir back home

By Mail Today Bureau

Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi
caused a stir back home as some Muslim leaders and the Congress tried to
decipher the signalling behind the move.

Adding to the game of political fallout of the visit was the decision of the UAE
government to allot land for the first-ever Hindu temple in Abu Dhabi.

There are two temples and a gurdwara in Dubai but none in Abu Dhabi. The move
has brought succour to the 2.6-million-strong Indian population in the UAE that
comprises a third of its total population.

The PM lauded the gesture as a "great step" in a tweet. Some of his opponents
highlighted that the PM visited the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque at Abu Dhabi when
he had not accorded the community any such gesture in India.

All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) said that Modi could have chosen to
visit a mosque in the country before visiting a mosque in the UAE.

"Before visiting a mosque in some other country, it would have been better if
Modi had visited a masjid in India," AIMPLB working general secretary Maulana
Mohammad Wali Rehmani said.

Rehmani also accused the NDA Government of compromising the basic tenets of the
Constitution and alleged that it was trying to convert India from a secular
state to one based on a particular religion.

Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said: "I am happy that a person who did not wish
to wear a skull cap is visiting a mosque."

The Congress was also angered by the PM for criticising the country in his
meeting with the business leaders.

"I have got some problems in legacy. I cannot take only the good points and
leave aside the problems. Some things were stalled due to the indecisiveness and
lethargy of the governments in past," Modi had said.

Reacting sharply, Congress dubbed these remarks as "abominable".

Party spokesperson Sanjay Jha tweeted: "It is abominable that PM Modi continues
his pathetic lowbrow jibes at Opposition party when abroad. A huge
embarrassment."

Modi had earlier attacked the previous regimes during his China and Canada
trips.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 18, 2015 Tuesday 4:44 PM GMT

Bangkok bombing: Teenage London law student among victims killed in Thailand
terror attack;
19-year-old Chan Vivian Wing-Yan is reportedly among the victims who died in
Monday's explosion, with authorities still yet to confirm a death toll

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words


A London-based student who died in the terror attack blasts of Bangkok has been
named as Chan Vivian Wing-Yan.

The 19-year-old, from Hong Kong but studying in London, was among at least 20
victims of the blast which also left more than 100 injured on Monday evening.

Miss Wing-Yan was named by the Thai Society at the School of Oriental and
African Studies, based at the University of London, on social media, prompting
pals to take to Facebook and pay tribute to her memory.

The tributes came as UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said a British
national, living in Hong Kong, was also among the dead.

It is not yet clear if Mr Hammond was referring to Miss Wing-Yan, or another
victim, however a spokeswoman for the Foreign Office declined to comment any
further.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "The loss of life and injury in Bangkok
is horrific and I condemn this callous act of violence against completely
innocent and unsuspecting members of the public.

"I can confirm that one British national, a resident of Hong Kong, lost her life
in the attack.

"British Embassy staff in Thailand are assisting her family at this very
difficult time.

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and loved ones, and with the
Thai people."

In an open letter, the Thai Society said: "We would like to send our heartfelt
condolences to her family and friends during this difficult moment."

Hundreds posted touching tributes, while others simply wrote the words: "RIP".

Serena Wong said: "I really treasure the memories we had, and am sure you'll be
a joyful angel in heaven."

Shocking new footage shows moment of Bangkok blast

Ives Kwok wrote: "My friend, I know u will be fine and have a very happy life in
heaven with our God. Let's meet up somewhere in the sky! I promise! Goodbye my
friend."

Jacqueline Wong posted: "Although I don't really know you, I know you are a
cheerful and nice person. I regret that I didn't try to make friends with you
when I saw you [...] your sweet smile will be always in our heart."

Miss Wing-Yan studied law at Harrow International School, linked with the
prestigious Harrow School based in north west London.

Friends told how she was a passionate food blogger, and loved sharing her snaps
on Instagram.

Fellow student Michelle Lou said: "She was a really kind and cheerful person in
general - she really loved to travel around and just go to a lot of different,
good restaurants."

Popular singer Joey Yung shared a snap with her 300,000 Facebook fans, also
paying tribute to the teenage blast victim.

Singer FB

The explosion, which took place at 7pm local time, has seen investigators ramp
up security throughout the country and launch a manhunt for a suspect in a
yellow t-shirt, wearing glasses and donning a backpack.

David Cameron said he was "deeply saddened" by the death of a British national
in the bomb attack on a popular shrine.

CCTV reveals 'Bangkok bomber' taking off backpack ahead of Thailand blast

"Deeply saddened to hear a British national was killed in the horrific Bangkok
bombing," the Prime Minister said in a statement posted on Twitter.

"My thoughts are with her family and all those affected."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

Briton killed in Thailand terror attack

LENGTH: 163  words


A British national was among those killed in an attack on a popular shrine in
Thailand, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said.

At least 20 people died and over 100 injured were injured by the blast in
Bangkok, including the British national living in Hong Kong.

"The loss of life and injury in Bangkok is horrific and I condemn this callous
act of violence against completely innocent and unsuspecting members of the
public," Mr Hammond said in a statement.

"I can confirm that one British national, a resident of Hong Kong, lost her life
in the attack. British Embassy staff in Thailand are assisting her family at
this very difficult time.

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and loved ones, and with the
Thai people.

"Foreign Office officials are in close contact with the Thai authorities and
have offered UK assistance in the investigation of this abhorrent act.

"British nationals in Thailand should check the Foreign Office website for the
latest travel advice."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 8:37 AM GMT

Hundreds feared dead after trying to flee Nigeria terror attack

BYLINE: Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 335 words


AS MANY as 150 are feared dead after trying to flee a violent attack from Boko
Haram gunmen.

AFP/GETTY

TERROR: Abubakar Shekau is the leader of Boko Haram, which is now affiliated
with ISIS

Dozens of militants from the Islamic State-affiliated group attacked the remote
village in north-eastern Nigeria.

The terrorists arrived on motorcycles and a car on Thursday and started shooting
at the residents of Kukawa-Gari, in Yobe state.

Modu Balumi, a local witness, said: "They opened fire instantly, which forced
residents to flee.

"They shot a number of people. Unfortunately many residents who tried to flee
plunged into the river which is full from the rain.

"Many drowned."

GOOGLE EARTH

ATTACKED: A satellite image of Kukawa in Yobe, Nigeria

According to local tolls by the village around 150 people were either shot dead
or drowned in the siege.

"The gunmen deliberately killed a fisherman who tried to save drowning residents
of the village," Balumi said, adding that many bodies of drowned people were
picked out by locals several miles away.

Bukar Tijjani, villager

News of the attack was slow to come out because Boko Haram jihadis have been
destroyed telecom masts around the village since the insurgency began in 2009.

Another villager, Bukar Tijjani, said: "Most residents, particularly women and
children, ran towards the river in confusion.

"They were pursued by the gunmen, who kept firing at them.

"In the frantic effort to escape they jumped into the river, which was full to
the brim."

A local government official confirmed the attack but put the death toll lower,
at around 50 people.

Related articles Boko Haram: 300 women and girls rescued from terror group by
police Terror group Boko Haram vows to free abducted schoolgirls - in return for
prisoners Extremists Boko Haram behead cop in new terror video

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 11:43 PM GMT

Islamic State 'selling off the organs of women kept as sex slaves to fund terror
attacks'

BYLINE: Jake Burman

LENGTH: 415 words


SAVAGE Islamic State terrorists are allegedly selling off the organs of
thousands of women they have kept as sex slaves to fund their sickening regime.

IG·UNIVERSAL

ISIS are reportedly selling off the organs of their sex slaves to fund the
regime

A new report by the Middle East Media Research Institute - which monitors ISIS
online - claims militants are openly discussing slavery on social media.

It says that the terrorists are discussing prices for the women - some of whom
are yet to reach their teenage years.

The shocking messsages also apparently reveal a horrific trade in the "possible
trafficking in human organs".

Related articles  Islamic State is funding its terror operations by brutally...
Vile ISIS behead 82-year-old scholar and hang decapitated body in...

Earlier this year dozens of bodies were discovered with surgical incisions as
well as missing kidneys and other vital organs, according to the Iraqi
ambassador to the United Nations Mohamed Alhakim.

The corpses were found piled up in shallow, mass graves in February.

It recently emerged that the heinous fighters are claiming rape is part of their
distorted interpretation of Islam - arguing that the Koran "encourages and
condones" attacks on women who do not belong to a Muslim faith.

The Yazidi religious sect have found themselves as a terror target for the group
in Iraq and Syria.

GETTY

ISIS has captured thousands of Yazidi women

A total of 5,270 members of the minority were said to have been abducted last
year, while over 3,000 are reportedly still in the clutches of the notorious
terrorists.

A 12-year-old girl who escaped the group said that her abuser told her that
raping her was not a sin because she was not Muslim - telling her that his
religion encourages the horrific act.

After tying her up and gagging her, he knelt beside the bed she was helplessly
laying on and prayed.

She said: "Afterwards, he prayed again. I kept telling him it hurts - please
stop.

"He told me that according to Islam he is allowed to rape an unbeliever. He said
that by raping me, he is drawing closer to God."

The depraved group has been internationally condemned by Muslims for using a
twisted interpretation of Islam to justify their repulsive acts.

Related articles Islamic State jihadis using student and payday loans to fund
terror plots in Britain Officials seize girl's passport over Islamic State fears
after 'her friends fled to Syria' WARNING: Britons in Turkey face new ISIS
threat as terrorists urge locals to go on attack

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 7:36 AM GMT

WARNING: Britons in Turkey face new ISIS threat as terrorists urge locals to go
on attack

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 597 words


BRITONS holidaying in Turkey are facing fresh fears of an ISIS attack after the
terror group urged locals to join their sick regime and attack tourist hotspots.

IG·GETTY

Britons in holiday could be hit by an Islamic State attack

A new propaganda video released online called on Muslims in the country to
"conquer Istanbul", one of the Middle East's most popular destinations.

Just two months ago 30 British tourists were killed by an ISIS gunman on a beach
in Tunisia.

The Home Office has already warned holidaymakers to avoid several regions in
Turkey, particularly near the border with Iraq and Syria.

More than 2.5million British sunseekers visit the country, which has a 98.9 per
cent Muslim population, each year.

GETTY

ISIS terrorists have called on Muslims to conquer Istanbul

GETTY

More than 2.5million British sunseekers visit Turkey each year

The seven-minute ISIS clip, titled 'A Message to Turkey', comes after the United
States and Turkey formed a military coalition to fight the group.

In the video, a fighter speaks in Turkish to the camera and brands president
Recep Tayyip Erdogan a "traitor" for allowing the US to "bombard the people of
Islam".

He adds: "To the people of Turkey, you have to immediately rebel and fight
against this Satan [Erdogan] who fooled you and made you a slave to crusaders
and atheists."

"Athiests" is a reference to Kurdish PKK militants, some of whom have fought
against ISIS in Syria.

He also warned eastern Turkey would fall into Kurdish hands unless Islamist
fighters rose up.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The footage, which appeared to be shot in a desert, has been widely shared by
sick ISIS supporters on social media.

It also includes archive footage of Erdogan at a press conference with Barack
Obama and greeting King Salman of Saudi Arabia.

Six F-16 fighter jets arrived at a Turkish air base from America last week and
began flying missions against ISIS in Syria.

And Turkey's foreign minister has promised the country will begin a
"comprehensive battle" against the terrorists "very effectively and soon".

Related articles  TERROR ALERT: ISIS plot 'Lee Rigby-style' attacks at RAF
bases...  WARNING: ISIS are tricking British women into MARRIAGE as part of...

The terror group used to use Turkey's border to bring foreign fighters and
supplies into Syria - and did not appear to target Turkey in return.

But a western diplomat has warned Turkey is "a lot more exposed now,
particularly as they can't easily back away from the commitment on [the US]
using their bases".

Turkish officials reportedly seized 30 suicide vests in first half of this year
that ISIS militants may have been planning to use on targets including police
stations.

EXPRESS

The Home Office has warned tourists to avoid several regions in Turkey

The terror group took 49 Turkish citizens - including children and police -
hostage in Iraq on June 11 last year.

They were freed and returned to Turkey safely last September.

32 truck drivers were also captured in Iraq a day before but were handed over to
Turkish officials after three weeks.

At a recent press conference Erdogan called for closer cooperation among the
international community to fight ISIS.

He added that the group's actions "bear no relation to our religion, morality,
conscience or culture".

Related articles MAPPED: Terrifying growth of ISIS in just ONE year...and how
Asia & Russia is next target Islamic State jihadis using student and payday
loans to fund terror plots in Britain Officials seize girl's passport over
Islamic State fears after 'her friends fled to Syria'

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT

Two 'terrorists' launch gun and grenade attack on police guarding Istanbul's
iconic Dolmabache Palace days after ISIS called on Turkish Muslims to join them

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words



     ·    Shots fired at officers and explosions heard outside major tourist
          attraction
     ·    Two people from 'terrorist group' arrested with their automatic
          weapons
     ·    Attack comes after ISIS branded Turkish President a traitor over air
          strikes
     ·    Eight Turkish soldiers also killed in bomb attack blamed on outlawed
          PKK


Two 'terrorists' have launched a gun and grenade attack on police officers
guarding an Ottoman-era palace that is a major tourist attraction in Istanbul.

Turkish police arrested two people with automatic weapons after shots were fired
at officers outside the Dolmabache Palace, where the prime minister also has an
office.

The Istanbul governor's office said the attackers were from a 'terrorist group'
without specifying which one, adding they were believed to have been involved in
an assault on the offices of the ruling AK Party on August 8.

One officer was injured, local media reported. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu
was in Ankara at the time of the attack.

Video footage released by the private Dogan news agency showed that a road
leading to the palace had been sealed off by police.

The incident comes amid escalating violence between Turkey's security forces and
Kurdish rebels and as Turkey has been conducting operations against the Islamic
State group and others.

Turkey last month rounded up more than 1,000 people linked to ISIS, the Kurdish
rebels and leftist militants.

At least 85 people, most of them police and soldiers, have been killed since
July in the renewed violence between the security forces and the Kurdistan
Workers' Party, or PKK.

An ISIS propaganda video released this week called Turkey's president, Recep
Tayyip Erdogan, a traitor for allowing the U.S. to use air bases for strikes
against the group and urged all Muslims in Turkey to join ISIS in its fight
against 'crusaders, atheists and tyrants.'

Meanwhile, eight Turkish soldiers were killed on Wednesday in a bomb attack on
their vehicle in the southeast, blamed on the PKK, the army said.

The attack is the single most deadly strike to be blamed on the PKK since the
government began waging a major 'anti-terror' campaign against the Kurdish
militants last month.

The soldiers were killed when a remote-controlled explosive device laid by
militants on a road in the Silvan district of the province of Siirt was
detonated, the official Anatolia news agency said.

The army confirmed the toll in a statement, blaming the 'Separatist Terror
Organisation', its customary phrase for the PKK which it never refers to by
name.

Seven soldiers were also wounded in the attack and military helicopters and
ambulances were dispatched to the area, the official Anatolia news agency said,
adding that the clashes between the militants and soldiers were continuing.

At least four Turkish soldiers have also been killed in two days of clashes that
erupted after Kurdish militants set up roadblocks on the highway between the
Lice district of Diyarbakir and Bingol province in southeast Turkey, the army
said Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 10:24 PM GMT

New Tunisia shooting: Islamist militants gun down policeman in resort where 30
Brits died in terror attack;
"Two young men on a motorbike opened fire on the police. At least one police
officer is dead," a security source said

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Two Islamist militants riding a motorbike shot dead a Tunisian police officer on
Wednesday in the beach resort of Sousse, where a gunman killed 38 people in
June, a security source said.

"Two young men on a motorbike opened fire on the police. At least one police
officer is dead," the security source said, asking not to be identified because
he was not authorised to speak to the media.

Afrique360 reported he was waiting for public transport to get to his
workplaceand was with two of his colleagues, who were not hurt.

No further details were immediately available.

Tunisia is struggling to protect its vital tourism centres following the Sousse
killings, where ISIS-affiliated gunman Seifeddine Rezgui's massacred 30 Brits on
the beach in Sousse and an attack in March against foreign visitors at the Bardo
Museum in Tunis.

Read more: Couple who survived Tunisia terror attack split up because they
'can't get over trauma'

Sousse shooting

Since its 2011 uprising ousted autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, Tunisia has
emerged as a model for democratic transition in the Middle East.

But the North African state has also struggled with a rising militant threat.

Meet the Tunisian heroes who formed a human shield during the terror attack on
the beach

Officials say more than 3,000 Tunisians have left to fight in Iraq and Syria and
increasingly in neighbouring Libya, where the chaos generated by a battle
between two rival governments has left a security vacuum for militant groups to
grow.

The gunmen in the Sousse attack and the Bardo Museum were trained in militant
camps in Libya, but officials and family say they were radicalised by militant
groups at home through local mosques or contacts on the internet.

British nationals killed in the Tunisia terror attack arrive at RAF Brize Norton
in Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 01:54 PM GMT

France Terror Attack Survivor Sues French Media

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 214 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man caught up in January's Paris terror attacks is taking legal
action against some television and radio stations, claiming they put his life in
danger.


  Lilian Lepere was working at a print company in Dammartin-en-Goele when Cherif
and Said Kouachi laid siege to the building after killing 12 people in Paris.

He claims that at least three television and radio stations revealed his
possible presence while he was hiding in a cupboard under a sink, however he was
eventually released unharmed.

The Paris prosecutors' office says an investigation has been opened into the
broadcasters' behaviour.

Mr Lepere's lawyer Antoine Casubolo Ferro said his legal action was an attempt
to increase media awareness of how to cover life-threatening situations.

He said: "Delivering information without careful consideration may endanger
others' lives. Journalists must think of it."

During the incident on 9 January, a politician said in a radio interview that an
employee was hiding in the building.

Later, Mr Lepere's sister gave an interview to a public television station
saying that she believed her brother was in the plant.

She added that his family had stopped calling him in case they compromised his
hiding place. Another journalist also repeated the claim.

Mr Lepere's information fed to police by phone while in the cupboard was vital
in the armed swoop on the plant which saw the two Kouachi brothers killed.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 11:08 AM GMT

Friends: deleted 'bomb joke' scene with Monica and Chandler originally set to
air after 9/11 surfaces online;
The storyline was due to air two weeks after the terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Ben Travis

SECTION: TV

LENGTH: 239 words


Friends fans have re-discovered a deleted scene from the classic sitcom that
features Monica and Chandler caught out for making bomb jokes at an airport.

The storyline was shot just prior to 9/11, and was due to air two weeks after
the terrorist attacks, before a new segment was filmed to replace it.

An introduction to the deleted storyline states: "The following scenes were
deleted from the episode 'The One Where Rachel Tells Ross' and are being
presented here for the first time. The story involved Chandler joking with
security at an airport and was to air two weeks after the events of September
11, 2011. In light of this, we decided to replace the original story. As part of
the history of the show, we hope that the scenes can now be viewed in the spirit
which they were originally intended."

While the clip was uploaded to YouTube in 2007, it is currently being shared
online by a number of Friends fans who have never come across the scenes before.

Read more

FriendsFest: Interactive Friends experience coming to London

Matt LeBlanc was not invited to Jennifer Aniston's wedding

RIP Friends: how London fell out with friendship.

The series remains highly popular, with FriendsFest, a London-based Friends
festival organised by Comedy Central taking place on Brick Lane this September,
selling out in minutes.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BENIDORM BRITS IN SHARK TERROR;
JAWS ATTACK IN SPAIN ; Boy, 10, bitten on waist

BYLINE: NICK PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 147 words


A SUSPECTED shark attack sent British holidaymakers fleeing a beach in Benidorm.

Coastguards ordered swimmers out of the water after a ten-year-old boy was
bitten above his waist.

A red flag was raised for more than 30 minutes while the attack was investigated
on the packed Spanish coast. The was not seriously hurt but was with a big
jaw-shaped wound on tummy.

Beach boss Lorenzo Martinez said: "The youngster went up to it to touch and it
turned round and bit him." Coastguards believe the 2ft grey or green fish was a
young shark or barracuda. The unnamed lad was set Monday. First aiders treated
him as he ran from the sea clutching his waist.

A record number of Brits are holidaying in Benidorm this summer. Many returned
to the water after the scare. A woman was attacked by a suspected tiger shark on
the same beach last summer. Such incidents are rare in the Mediterranean Sea.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fright . . lad's jaws bite. Right, a shark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 8:33 PM GMT

Dolmabahce palace attack: Terrorists launch explosives and fire guns at Turkish
site;
The attack - during which one police officer was injured - happened at a popular
tourist attraction, home to a museum as well as an office for the Turkish prime
minister Ahmet Davutoglu

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 548 words


Two militants launched an attack with guns and explosives on Wednesday on
Istanbul's Dolmabahce palace, one of Turkey 's main tourist attractions.

They hurled a hand grenade at the building, which is also home to offices of the
prime minister, and fired shots at police officers who stand on ceremonial guard
outside the Ottoman-era palace, the Istanbul governor's office said.

The attack heightened a sense of crisis in the country as Turkey's leaders
struggle to form a new government amid increasing clashes with Kurdish militants
and threats of violence from Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) .

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, but Anadolu state
news agency said that the suspects were members of the radical Left-wing
Revolutionary People's Liberation Front (DHKP-C).

The group claimed a similar attack at the palace in January when two grenades
were thrown at guards but failed to explode. It was also behind an attack
earlier this month on ruling Justice and Development Party's (AKP) headquarters
in Istanbul, Anadolu reported.

One officer was slightly injured in Wednesday's assault, according to reports.

The militants were later detained near the German consulate and several weapons
were seized including two hand grenades, an automatic rifle, a hand gun and a
large amount of ammunition.

One of the last great palaces of the Ottoman Empire, Dolmabahce palace is a
popular sight with tourists. It is where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of
modern Turkey, died in 1938. Part of the palace is open to the public, while
another wing hosts reception rooms and the offices of Ahmet Davutoglu, the prime
minister.

Mr Davutoglu was in the capital Ankara as reports of the shooting emerged and
did not interrupt a speech he was giving live on television.

Militants from the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) meanwhile killed eight soldiers
with a roadside bomb in the south-eastern province of Siirt, the military said,
intensifying a conflict there after the breakdown of a two-year ceasefire last
month.

After a terror attack in southern Turkey last month by an Isil-linked suicide
bomber, the government has begun "anti-terror" offensive against the extremists,
but the state has focused largely on targeting Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)
militants.

Almost 100 people, most of them police and soldiers, have been killed since July
in renewed violence between security forces and the PKK, while more than 2,500
people have been detained in raids targeting suspected members of the PKK, Isil
and DHKP-C.

In a video issued on Monday, an Isil spokesman called Turkish president Recep
Tayyip Erdogan a "tyrant traitor" and exhorted its followers inside the country
to rise up "wherever they are and however they can" against the government.

Mr Erdogan signalled on Wednesday that the country was heading towards another
election, after the prime minister's failed efforts to find a junior coalition
partner led him to hand the mandate to form a government back to Mr Erdogan.

"We are once again swiftly heading towards an election," Mr Erdogan said in a
televised speech in Ankara, adding that the only solution in the current
political impasse was turning to the "will of the nation" .

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   York Press

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday

ISIS says North Yorkshire base is target for terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


CAMPAIGNERS are demanding the Government reveals what action it is taking to
further security at the largest secret intelligence gathering base outside the
US, after it featured on an Isis hitlist.

The Campaign for the Accountability of American Bases said it was deeply
concerning that RAF Menwith Hill, on the southern edge of the Yorkshire Dales
near Harrogate, had been confirmed as a target by the terrorist group for a
"lone wolf" attack.

The group's co-chair, Lindis Percy, said while a British couple claiming to be
Islamic State's hacking division had reportedly encouraged British terrorists to
carry out atrocities at the North Yorkshire base, there was a possibility the
attack could be chemical, biological or nuclear.

Three other military bases, in Cambridgeshire and Suffolk, featured on an Isis
website alongside Menwith Hill - which includes family housing, community
facilities and high-technology "golf ball" installations and structures - as
well as a list of details relating to military and diplomatic staff.

The online list, which has since been removed, reportedly said: "We are
extracting confidential data and passing on your personal information to the
soldiers of the khilafah who soon, with the permission of Allah, will strike at
your necks in your own lands!"

The hitlist was said to have been compiled to avenge bombing against Muslims in
Syria and Iraq.

In July, Junead Ahmed Khan, 24, of Luton, was charged with plotting to kill US
military personnel based in the UK, and attempting to join Islamic State.

Ms Percy, who has spent 25 years campaigning for the closure of the base, which
serves primarily as a field station of the US National Security Agency (NSA) to
intercept terrorist communications, said: "We have always known that Menwith
Hill is a key target for terrorists, but this is Isis.

"No amount of surveillance and patrols will prevent an attack as the base has a
four-mile perimeter, so it puts all our security at risk."

Ms Percy said it was concerning the threat of a Fusilier Lee Rigby-style outside
a military base had emerged during the summer Parliamentary recess as security
questions could not be raised by MPs.

A Ministry of Defence spokeswoman said: "We would not issue a comment about our
security response for obvious reasons."

It is understood threat levels facing the base are continually monitored, with
levels of protection increased as required.

The NSA did not respond to a request for a comment on what action it had taken.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday

Thailand Army-led council says bomb attack not linked to global terror

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report by Thailand newspaper The Nation website on 20 August

The deadly bomb attack at the Erawan shrine on Monday [17 August] is unlikely
linked to international terrorism, Winthai Suvari, spokesman for the National
Council for Peace and Order [NCPO], said on Thursday [20 August].

In a special televised programme, Winthai said the preliminary investigation
into the attack had reached the conclusion that Chinese people were not the
targets of the attack, as several other foreign tourists were at the scene and
were injured when the bomb exploded.

Five Chinese nationals were among the 20 victims killed in the blast. The shrine
is well-known among both Chinese and other foreign worshippers.

Winthai said Thai intelligence agency had received cooperation from its allies
in investigating the explosion.

In another development, Police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said he was "unsure"
where the main suspect seen in CCTV footage could be found, adding that the man
may no longer be in Thailand.

"We are in the process of collecting video footage going back a month from every
camera in this area," Prawut said.

He added that the suspect was definitely part of larger network. The Thai police
had asked Interpol for help.

"We have not yet received any feedback from Interpol, but they are trying to
help. Every country is trying to help," Prawut said.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 20 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 8:06 PM GMT

Alleged Mumbai attack ringleader gets Bollywood spy film banned in Pakistan;
Lawyers for Hafiz Saeed win temporary ban on Phantom, about 2008 terror attacks
that killed 166 people, over claims of reputation damage

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai has succeeded
in persuading a court to ban a Bollywood spy thriller in Pakistan on the basis
that it would damage his reputation.

Lawyers for Hafiz Saeed, a founder of the militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT),
won a temporary ban on the distribution of Phantom, a film about Indian spies
hunting down those responsible for the three-day assault on hotels, tourist
spots and a railway station that killed 166 people.

Saeed's legal team argued that the film was anti-Pakistan and maligned Saeed and
Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the organisation he currently heads, which campaigns
relentlessly against India as well as carrying out social work.

Among the evidence presented at Lahore's high court was a scene in which a
character argues that India should assassinate a man named Harif Saeed in the
same way US forces slipped into the Pakistani town of Abbottabad in 2011 to kill
the former al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden.

Yahya Mujahid, a spokesman for JuD, said: "India is constantly using propaganda
and movies to portray that Pakistan is harbouring terrorists. It is the same
argument we see from Indian intellectuals that the Abbottabad incident shows we
can go inside Pakistan too."

Despite the popularity of Bollywood sagas, a film about such a sensitive topic
was never likely to be screened in Pakistan. The information ministry said no
application has been lodged with the country's censor board.

Nonetheless, Judge Shahid Bilal Hasan ordered a ban until 23 September, to give
the interior ministry time to explain what steps it was taking to block films
critical of Pakistan.

Despite a wealth of evidence against the LeT for its role in the Mumbai attacks,
Saeed travels freely around the country, railing against India.

He is the subject of a $10m (£6.4m) US bounty and has been accused of being
present in a Karachi control room from where LeT commanders are said to have
phoned in instructions to the 10 attackers.

Zaki-ur-Rehman, the alleged LeT military chief, was released in April from a
comfortable period in custody.

Although critics claim the LeT is shielded by its past links to the country's
intelligence apparatus, with which it is accused of cooperating in launching
attacks inside Kashmir in the 1990s, the Pakistani government argues that India
has hindered the course of justice by preventing its investigators collecting
the evidence needed to build a watertight case.

This month, a former head of Pakistan's Federal Investigation Agency admitted
"the case has lingered on for far too long" and warned that bringing those
involved to justice would require "facing the truth and admitting mistakes".

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 7:25 AM GMT

Bangkok bombing: City prays for justice for 20 killed in terror attack on Erawan
Shrine;
As the shrine reopens, Thailand trebles its bounty to find the bomber that
authorities claim is a 'foreigner'

BYLINE: Sofia Mitra-Thakur

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 723 words


As night fell, the woman paused in prayer at the Erawan Shrine, her hands
clasped and eyes closed, standing by a table covered with floral garlands. The
mood was sombre at the popular Bangkok attraction, as visitors wandered quietly
around, their low chatter interspersed with the loud sounds of nearby traffic -
and of workers drilling and cutting into concrete slabs.

It had reopened that morning with a prayer ceremony led by Thai Buddhist monks,
less than 48 hours after the explosion that killed 20 and injured 120 others.

The open-air shrine, which houses a statue of the Hindu god Brahma, had been
restored, with fresh cement poured into the bomb crater and the blood and debris
of slaughter scrubbed away. The statue itself was mostly intact, with chunks
torn from just one of its four visages, but mangled metal railings were a
prominent hint of the devastation wrought by a pipe bomb, made up of seven
pounds of explosives and ball bearings.

Bangkok Bombing

Throughout the day waves of visitors arrived to light incense and candles, make
floral and food offerings and bow their heads in reflection, some kneeling in
prayer. Nervous-looking flower vendors had reopened their stalls of tall,
colourful garlands, workers diligently cleaned around the shrine, and diplomatic
envoys from the US and Holland came to pay their respects, surrounded by
cameras. Most poignantly of all, relatives of a Malaysian family visiting
Bangkok on holiday, four of whose seven members were killed by the bomb, laid
down clothing, money and other offerings to assist the victims' spirits in the
afterlife.

Police officers chatting with Thais and tourists were evidence of the tightened
security presence in the area. Some visitors photographed the flowers and
handwritten tributes, one saying "Rest in Peace! Be stronger Thailand." A Thai
woman leant against the railing as she looked towards the statue and tightly
hugged her young daughter.

Police have issued an arrest warrant for the main bombing suspect, who was
captured on CCTV walking into the shrine and offloading an oversized backpack
minutes before the explosion. They released a sketch composed from the footage
and announced a one million baht (£18,000) reward for information leading to his
arrest. Somwang Assarasee, leader of the United Front for Democracy against
Dictatorship, later increased the bounty to three million baht.

READ MORE: Thai blast suspect 'did not act alone' claims police chiefTributes to
British national Vivian Chan killed in Bangkok bombVideo: New dashcam video
shows moment blast struck

Authorities claimed the bomber was a "foreigner", but did not elaborate on how
they knew this. His ethnicity was unclear from the images, but national police
spokesman Pol Lt Gen Prawut Thavornsiri described him as "khaek khao", a Thai
phrase often used to describe light-skinned Muslims from South Asia, Central
Asia and the Middle East.

"He's likely to be white skinned, might be khaek khao, if he is a foreigner. But
he's not a big guy, his height is a little bit above 170cm," another senior
officer, Pol Lt Gen Prawut, told Thailand's Channel 3 News. He later told
reporters that the prime suspect was overheard speaking a foreign language that
was not English.

Police added that they believed the suspect was working within a "network" and
must have had accomplices to assemble the explosives and plan the attack. Prime
Minister Prayuth Chan-o-cha called for the bomber and others thought to be
involved to turn themselves in "for their own safety", saying otherwise they
could be killed by the people who had hired them to set off the explosives.

National police chief Pol Gen Somyot Pumpanmuang said: "The motive [of the
bombers] is to discredit the government and make it unacceptable to other
countries when it comes to safety in the country."

Gen Prayuth thanked the international community for its support but rejected an
offer from Britain's Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond to assist in the
investigation. British national Vivian Chan, 19, a resident of Hong Kong, was
among those who died in the blast on Monday.

"Do we want foreign countries to intervene in every issue? It is a breach of
sovereignty... there is no need to get outsiders involved. They are welcome to
give advice, but they can't take part in the investigation because it happened
in Thailand," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 8:55 AM GMT

Tunisian policeman is shot dead by gunmen on a motorbike in coastal resort of
Sousse where 30 Britons died in terror attack

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words



     ·    Policeman was shot dead by a gunman on a motorbike who used a rifle
     ·    Motorbike sped away and police have launched a search for the attacker
     ·    Shooting in Sousse, was where 30 Britons were killed in a terror
          attack
     ·    Tunisia are trying to crush the threat posed against them by ISIS


A Tunisian policeman has been shot dead by a gunman on a motorbike in the resort
of Sousse where 30 Britons were killed in a terror attack two months ago.

Two men on a powerful motorbike opened fire on three policemen using a rifle on
the outskirts of the coastal city, killing one of them, before speeding away.

A statement from the Tunisian Interior Ministry said the victim man died on the
way to hospital while the other two officers were not wounded.

Scroll down for video

They said a vast search was underway for the attacker who struck while the
officers were waiting for transport to take them to the nearby town of Kairouan.

Sahbi Jouini, a member of the policemen's union, said the victims were waiting
in the low-income neighbourhood of Hay Zohour when they were attacked.

Earlier this year, a gunman killed 39 tourists on a beach in Sousse in an attack
later claimed by the Islamic State group.

In the chilling massacre, student Seifeddine Rezgui pulled out a Kalashnikov
hidden in a beach parasol and fired bullets at sunbathers lounging on a
beachfront resort.

The gunman, who was laughing and joking among the midday bathers, was later shot
dead by police after a rampage lasting at least 20 minutes.

Blood-soaked bodies in swimsuits were left scattered among upturned sun loungers
in what was the deadliest Islamist attack on westerners since the July 7 London
bombings in 2005.

Thirty Britons were killed in the attack and the Foreign Office are now advising
against all but essential travel to Tunisia.

Since the deadly attack last month, Tunisian police have been carrying out
sweeps across the country, arresting hundreds in an effort to crush the
terrorist threat against the state.

Earlier this year, terrorists also targeted the Bardo Museum in the country's
capital Tunis, gunning down 23 people.

Government officials blame neighbouring Libya for harbouring militants targeting
the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 6:28 PM GMT

Anders Breivik: Woman reveals letter-writing relationship with mass killer and
says she's attracted to him;
The young woman says she wouldn't want to live life without the man who killed
77 people in 2011's horrific terror attacks

BYLINE: By Kirstie McCrum

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 339 words


The man who committed the worst atrocity Norway has ever seen in peacetime might
not be the number one choice for a penpal.

But one woman has admitted that she writes letters to Anders Behring Breivik,
and says that she is attracted to the mass murderer.

The love letters which she's penning, though, may cause bafflement for those who
followed the court case which saw Breivik sentenced to 21 years in prison.

The woman, who is in her 20s, is from Sweden, but other than that, her identity
is unknown, so she goes by the name of Victoria.

She told The Local: "I really wouldn't want to live a life without him," which
many, including the families of his victims, will find hard to stomach.

The Norwegian killed 77 people on July 22 in 2011 through two separate attacks.

First, he set off a bomb near government offices in Oslo and then he travelled
to a Labour youth summer camp on the small island of Utøya just outside the
capital where he opened fire on teenagers.

Victoria describes Breivik's isolated time inside as "torture", and is doing
everything she can to ease his prison conditions.

The unemployed writer has penned more than 150 letters and sent gifts, having
met Breivik in 2007 through an online game.

But they've never actually clapped eye on each other, and it's not a romantic
relationship as such, with Victoria calling him "old friend" and a "brother
figure".

The Scandi Morgenbladet paper reported last year that Breivik gets "at least"
800 letters a year, many from female admirers, while a 16-year-old girl proposed
to him during his trial in 2012.

Victoria's sister told her "you're dead to me" when she found out about the
link, and Breivik's penpal does admit to sharing his Islamophobia.

Coming to terms with her old friend's actions has been something she
concentrated on.

"I guess I had to separate Anders from Breivik really.

"I think of Anders as my old friend and Breivik as the person who did all those
things.

"I miss him more and more every day.

"I guess my feelings have got a bit stronger."

Anders Breivik sentenced

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 1:26 PM GMT

ISIS: Terror group lists English RAF bases as terror targets for 'lone wolf'
attacks;
A secret leaked dossier offers encouragement for future attacks on RAF bases to
extremists from the UK

BYLINE: By Kirstie McCrum

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 231 words


An RAF base in the Yorkshire countryside has been revealed as target of
international terrorist group ISIS.

RAF Menwith Hill in picturesque Harrogate turned up on a list of bases mentioned
as possible sites for 'lone wolf attacks'.

According to a report in the Sunday Times, ISIS also had RAF Alconbury in
Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, and RAF Mildenhall and RAF Lakenheath, both in in
Suffolk in the south of England on their radar.

The dossier offers encouragement to home-grown extremists according to the
report, hoping to prompt attacks on the English bases.

Thought to have come from the 'Islamic State hacking division', they published
the details of military and diplomatic staff.

The list, thought to be out of date, stated: "We are extracting confidential
data and passing on your personal information to the soldiers of the khilafah
who soon, with the permission of Allah, will strike at your necks in your own
lands!"

A spokesperson for the RAF told the Harrogate Advertiser the force does not
comment on matters of security, for obvious reasons.

A North Yorkshire Police spokesman said: "Security arrangements at military
establishments in North Yorkshire are regularly reviewed to ensure the
appropriate safety and security of staff."

According to British Security forces the threat level since August 2014 from
international terrorism is severe, which means an attack is highly likely.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     August 20, 2015 Thursday 12:29 PM GMT

Should we be worried that terrorists are targeting tourists?;
The British have a long history of resilience in the face terrorism - recent
attacks should not diminish that, says Nick Trend

BYLINE: By Nick Trend

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


At least ten of those who died at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok this week were
foreign visitors. It is a hugely popular tourist sight, and the atrocity is only
the latest in what has been a terrible summer for terrorist threats and attacks
against holidaymakers. In Tunisia in June, only three months after 21 people,
mostly cruise-ship passengers, were shot down in the Bardo National Museum in
Tunisia, a gunman on the beach at Sousse in June killed 38 sunbathers . Also in
June, a three-man suicide attack on visitors to the Karnak Temple in Luxor was
foiled by Egyptian security forces. And in March, responding to the heightened
threat from cross-border terrorism from Somalia, the Foreign Office (FCO)
extended its warning against all but essential travel to parts of Kenya, so that
more than half the coast is now off limits to British tourists.

How worried should we be? First, it's important to put things into context. It
has certainly been an appalling year so far. But there is a long history of
attacks on tourists. It's 30 years since both the Palestinian Liberation Front
hijack of the Achille Lauro cruise liner, and the suicide grenade and gun
attacks by the Abu Nidal group which killed 16 people at Rome and Vienna
airports. The first time I visited Cairo, in 1993, a bomb near the Egyptian
Museum in Tahrir Square killed four, including a Swedish tourist. Two years
after that, in 1995, two Britons, were among a group of tourists kidnapped in
Kashmir - both are still missing, presumed killed. In 1997 58 tourists were
gunned down at the Temple of Hatshepsut in Luxor, and the brutal double bombing
of a tourist night club in Bali in 2002 killed 202 people. Another 20 died in
the 2005 Bali bombings. And so it goes on. ETA planted bombs on Spanish beaches
in 2002 and 2008, and there was an explosion in the Turkish resort of Kemer in
2011.

· Mapped: Where in the world is safe for Britons? · Mapped: Terror threat around
the world

It is not a list to bring much comfort, you might think. But the total numbers
killed by terrorists - perhaps 350 in 30 years - is a tiny proportion of the
billions who have travelled safely during that period. Frankly, today the risk
of being a victim is probably greater in London or Paris than in most parts of
the world. Obviously, there are some destinations where the extent of the
current threat is so great that it would be foolish to risk travelling. The FCO
is clear when that is the case . But the FCO is also well-known for its
reluctance to advise against all travel to a destination, preferring to
articulate risks, rather than take a step which effectively makes it impossible
for British people to visit. This is as it should be. There will always be a
nervous reaction to an attack. But the British have a long history of resilience
in the face of terrorism. The recent history of tourism to Egypt in particular
proves that. Despite some appalling atrocities, we are determined to return
sooner rather than later.

Murdering innocent visitors on holiday, the softest of targets, is certainly a
brutally effective strategy in the short term. It guarantees reams of media
coverage in the home countries of the victims, as well as in the destination
where the attack took place. It undermines the positive dynamic of tourism -
generally a force for good which helps people of different countries and
cultures understand each other better. And it causes maximum economic and
political damage as tourists, intimidated by the threat, stay away. Terrorists
know this. They seem increasingly focussed on exploiting it. But history tells
us that while they can certainly cause immense outrage and terrible individual
suffering, they won't defeat our desire to go out and see the world.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 20, 2015 Thursday 8:37 AM GMT

Bangkok bomb: 'Network of at least 10 people, including foreigners, planned
attack for a month';
Thailand circulates description of "foreign" chief suspect to Interpol for
manhunt but says that attack not believed to be linked to international
terrorist group

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell Bangkok

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 969 words


Several foreigners were believed to be among a network of at least 10 people
involved in the Bangkok shrine bombing, according to Thailand 's police chief.

Somyot Poompanmuang said the worst terrorist attack in Bangkok's history had
been planned for at least a month. But the country's junta said that no link was
"likely" between the attack and international terrorism.

Thai police said they would circulate a description to Interpol of the chief
suspect, an unidentified "foreign man" who is believed to be "Caucasian, Arab or
mixed race" .

Officers are unsure if the suspect in the bombing that killed at least 20 people
at the Erawan shrine on Monday evening has already fled the country.

In a televised address to the nation, the junta spokesman said that while
questioning of witnesses and survivors led to the arrest warrant for the
"foreign man", there was not believed to be a link to an international terrorist
group.

The assertion by the Thai authorities that the bomber was a foreigner and part
of a network, but not linked to a global terrorist faction, seemed to throw no
further light on the motives for the attack or who committed it.

Amid fraying nerves, officials read assurances about security in English and
Chinese and said that Chinese tourists were "not the direct target" of the
perpetrators as the government tries to avoid an economically disastrous
collapse in foreign visitor numbers.

Gen Somyot, the national police chief, earlier described a "big network"
believed to have been involved in the attack .

"There was preparation using many people," he told reporters, according to
Reuters, adding that police believed that more than half were foreigners.

"This includes those who looked out on the streets, prepared the bomb and those
at the site and those who knew the escape route," he said. "There must have been
at least 10 people involved."

The chief suspect spoke on his mobile phone in a language that was neither Thai
nor English as he left the scene, according to a motorcycle taxi driver who
believes that he picked up the man.

The driver's testimony and description of his passenger has played a key role in
the investigation as police released a sketch and issued an arrest warrant for
an unidentified "foreign man".

Police also expanded on their description of the chief suspect who is believed
to have planted the ballbearing-laden pipe-bomb that killed at least nine Thais
and 11 ethnic Chinese visitors from other Asian nations.

Interactive: Bangkok bomb backpack

The suspected bomber appeared to be "Caucasian, Arab or mixed race", aged 20 to
30 and about 170cm (5ft 7in) tall, officials said.

The investigators' belief that the man was a foreigner seemed to throw no
further light on the motives for the attack or who committed it .

Police had earlier focused on two other "persons of interest" seen in security
video footage close to the suspect as he apparently planted the bomb.

In the released footage, one man stood up from the bench to leave a space for
the suspect to sit down. He then stood with another man in front of the suspect,
possibly shielding him as he took off his bag and left it under the bench a few
minutes before the blast.

The two men left together at the same time as the suspect separately walked
away.

Kasem Puksuwan believes that he then picked up the suspect at a motorcycle taxi
stand a short walk from the shrine just after the explosion.

"He had a conversation on the phone," Mr Kasem told Thai Channel 3. "I don't
know what the language is. I don't know, but it is surely not Thai nor English
language."

The driver said that the man did not speak to him to give directions for his
ride but instead handed him a piece of paper with the words "Lumpini Park"
written in English.

The park is the Bangkok equivalent of London's Hyde Park or New York's Central
Park and sits in the middle of a busy commercial area in the centre of the city,
a short drive from the Erawan shrine.

Mr Kasem said that he did not know the man's movements after he dropped him off
there. "I didn't see anyone at where I left him," he said. "It was dark. There
are some trees and it's hard to see.

The latest developments on the suspected terror network seemed to throw no
further light on the reasons for the attacks .

The country is ruled by a junta that staged a coup last year as political
protests paralysed the country. But if the bomber was indeed not Thai, that
would appear to indicate that the attack was not the result of the domestic
political turmoil that convulsed the country for nearly a decade.

The country has also faced a long-running Islamic insurgency in the south but
the description and sketch do not seem to match the appearance of the
predominantly ethnically Malay rebels.

However, an attack by an international Islamic terror group would normally be
accompanied by a claim of responsibility and no such claim has been made.
Further, the shrine is well-known as a popular destination for Thais and Asian
Buddhist visitors rather than for Western tourists who would be the expected
targets for such an atrocity.

In the absence of another explanation, some Thai media have suggested that there
might be a connection with the Muslim Uighurs of western China. For Thailand
recently deported more than 100 Uighur men back to China, despite protests that
they faced persecution there.

The theory went that Uighur extremists might have targeted the shrine in the
knowledge that they would kill both Thais and the ethnic Chinese foreign
visitors who flock to the site.

But there has been no evidence of a Uighur connection and Prayuth Chan-o-cha,
the prime minister and junta leader, strongly played down that theory when asked
by reporters.

Nor have police ruled out the possibility that the suspect was a Thai man
disguised in a wig and fake nose.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Ukrainian security officers say foiled terrorist attack in Kiev

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 21 August

Security Service of Ukraine [SBU] officers together with military prosecutor's
office employees have prevented a possible terrorist attack in Kiev during
Independence Day celebrations [on 24 August].

The press service of the Prosecutor-General's Office said that a cache of
weapons had been found in the woods not far from the military bases of the State
Border Service in the capital's Darnytskyy district. In particular, there were
two grenade launchers and a map with facilities to target.

Experts say that this weapon can shoot at a distance of approximately 250 m. An
investigation is under way.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1000 gmt 21 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 21, 2015 Friday 10:54 PM GMT

Unarmed US Marines foil suspected terrorist attack onboard high-speed train
between Amsterdam and Paris after they take down Kalashnikov-wielding Moroccan
gunman known to intelligence services

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 874 words



     ·    A suspected Moroccan terrorist opened fire with a Kalashnikov on board
          a high speed train in northern France
     ·    Eyewitnesses said two U.S. Marines on the train disarmed the
          26-year-old gunman and pinned him to the ground
     ·    French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve praised the Marines who
          almost certainly 'averted a disaster'
     ·    The gunman is understood to have boarded the train, which had more
          than 500 passengers, in Brussels, Belgium


A group of unarmed US Marines on board a high-speed train between Amsterdam and
Paris foiled a terrorist attack after a gunman opened fire with an assault
rifle, wounding three people.

The 26-year-old Moroccan national, who was known to security services, came out
of the toilet brandishing the gun and opened fire. Fortunately, two US Marines
were nearby and overpowered him before he could massacre passengers.

The suspected terrorist had at least nine full magazines of ammunition holding
almost 300 rounds. He was also carrying a knife.

Unfortunately, one of the Marines was shot and is believed to be in a critical
condition.

Scroll down for video

It is understood that the gunman boarded the train, which had more than 550
passengers on board, in Brussels and made his move as soon as it crossed into
France.

French media claim that the suspect was previously known to French security
services and was living in Spain. He has already been linked to a number of
radical Islamic groups. He was classed, according to FranceInfo.fr as
'potentially dangerous'.

Speaking in Arras, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve praised the
Marines for their timely intervention.

He said: 'Thanks to them we have averted a drama.

'(The Americans were) particularly courageous and showed extreme bravery in
extremely difficult circumstances.'

The man was arrested by police near the town of Arras in northern France.

Belgian journalist Marin Buxant Tweeted that the US Marines were on leave in
Brussels when they spotted the man and followed him on the train. When the
suspect went into the toilet, the Marines recognised the sound of a weapon being
armed and decided to act immediately.

Train company Thalys confirmed the incident happened. A spokesman said: 'The
situation is under control, the travellers are safe. The train stopped and the
emergency services are on site.'

No one at the SNCF French railways was immediately available to comment on the
report.

A report on Twitter said that three US Marines detained the gunman until
emergency services arrived.

The incident happened at approximately 6pm local time.

The motives behind the attack were not immediately known, although a spokesman
for the interior minister said: 'It is too early to speak of a terrorist link'.

The incident happened approximately 115 miles north of Paris near the town of
Arras

Investigators from France's special anti-terror police are leading the
investigation, a spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor's office said.

Two of the victims are in a critical condition. The suspect is a 26-year-old
Moroccan, said Sliman Hamzi, an official with police union Alliance.

A spokesman for the French state rail company SNCF said that the assailant was
armed with guns and knives but gave no further details about the attack.

The gunman was arrested after the train pulled into the station in the northern
French town of Arras, the SNCF spokesman told AFP.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve arrived at the scene in Arras in the
wake of the incident, which occurred shortly after 6pm local time.

His spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet confirmed to AFP that a man had opened fire
on the train but said that at this stage 'we do not know his motives'.

The French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, who appeared in the 1986 cult film 'Betty
Blue' staring Beatrice Dalle, was lightly injured. It is understood he cut his
hand while breaking the glass on the emergency alarm.

Anglade also played the hard-nosed cop Eddy Caplan in the gritty French crime
drama Braquo.

Thalys said on its website that several trains had been delayed after the
'intervention of security forces at Arras station'.

'The train is at the station and emergency services are at the scene,' said
Thalys, which is jointly owned by the national rail companies of Belgium, France
and Germany.

France remains on edge after Islamic extremists attacked the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket in Paris in January.

In June, a man beheaded his boss and tried to blow up a gas plant in southern
France in what prosecutors say was an attack inspired by ISIS.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: 'We are aware of reports of shots being fired
on a train in France.

'We are aware of reports that shots were fired on a train in France earlier
today. The French authorities have responded. There are no reports that British
nationals have been injured.'

Interior ministry spokesman Pierre Henry Brandet said: 'A man opened fire on
this Thalys train between Amsterdam and Paris, one person was very seriously
injured. Talking about a terrorist motive would be premature at the moment.'

Francois Hollande, the French president, has said: 'I express my solidarity with
the wounded from the attack on the train from Amsterdam to Paris. Everything is
being done to shed light on this tragedy.'

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Memorial ride to be held in honour of Tunisia terror attack victim

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words


ABOUT 200 bikers are expected to join for a "memorial rev up" and ride from
Blackwood to Newbridge in memory of Tunisia terror attack victim Trudy Jones
next Saturday.

The ride is being organised in memory of the 51-year-old mother and grandmother
who was killed in the attack on tourists in Sousse on June 26, with organisers
hailing a "massive response" from the community.

Money raised from the ride, which will take place on Saturday, August 29, will
go towards the Trudy Jones Trust Fund.

The fund has now raised around £1,200 after entertainment evenings and online
donations, and will be given to Trudy's family - although it is not yet known
what it will be spent on.

Jayne Jeremiah, one of the people helping to organise the ride, said the
response has been "massive".

She said: "Everyone is welcome, please come along and show your support down the
club or even along the route for these bikers with pure hearts of gold."

Bikers originally planned to leave from the ambulance station in Blackwood but
now will instead leave from the council offices at Pontllanfraith House on
Blackwood Road at noon.

All riders are asked to arrive by 11.45am for a "memorial rev up" before the
bikes leave.

The procession will take them past Blackwood Police Station, up to the Chartist
bridge and along Blackwood High Street towards Pontllanfraith. The bikers will
arrive at Newbridge Rugby Club with a family fun day including music,
entertainment and a bouncy castle.

The club will also be putting on a buffet to say thanks to the bikers and a
four-piece rock and metal band Wildside, who cover artists including Ozzy
Osbourne, Whitesnake and Def Leppard, have announced they will be performing
free at fundraising day.

For information about the Trudy Jones Trust Fund or how to donate, email Cerys
Mayne on Cerysldavies89@hotmail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 21, 2015 Friday 12:26 PM GMT

Families who witnessed Tunisian terror attacks 'not offered adequate support';
The government has not done enough to monitor the British tourists caught up in
the massacre, victims and experts say

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


The government has been accused of not doing enough to help those who witnessed
the terror attacks in Tunisia .

Maxine Midgely, from Barnsley, said it was a "complete disgrace" that she and
her family had not received psychological support and eventually had to rely on
private health care.

"I had a meltdown about two weeks ago, I ended up smashing a few things in my
house," she said.

"I just didn't know where to turn, so I was exploding."

Prof Neil Greenberg, president of the UK Psychological Trauma Society, said that
those most in need of help, who could be suffering from post traumatic stress
disorder or depression, were falling through the net as they had not been
closely monitored.

"In the days after people came back from Tunisia they were provided with some
sort of trauma counselling or psychological intervention but the evidence for
that is that it doesn't work at all and can actually make people worse," he told
BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"Later on, when the few people who are ill could benefit from treatment, there
doesn't seem to have been any outreach programme to find them."

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui massacred 38 people, including 30 British tourists,
during the attack in June.

Ms Midgley, her partner Richard Slater and their 14-year-old daughter Bronwyn
hid in a shopkeeper's cupboard as people were being killed around the m.

Mr Slater said he had contacted the family's GP but that they had not received
adequate psychological support and that eventually, his employers arranged and
paid for counselling sessions for him and his family.

"I wake up most nights sweating and thinking about what really happened and just
how close we were," he told the BBC.

"It's horrendous really, it's a feeling I wouldn't wish on anyone.

"I have it all, running from the beach up to the street having to keep Maxine
and Bronwyn in front of me so if any bullets come I take the bullet.

"Then we were in that cupboard with hand grenades and bullets going off in front
of us."

Prof Greenberg said that a screen and treat programme implemented in the wake of
the 7/7 bombings had been a great success and that a similar programme should be
introduced for those who were in Tunisia.

"Given that the government probably knows the majority of the people involved,
there should be an assessment of their mental health status and the people who
have an illness such as PTSD should be provided with treatment," he said.

"You shouldn't just rely on giving out leaflets or asking people to see their GP
because whilst that's well meaning, most people don't do that.

"The government quite rightly spent time and effort coordinating the response of
bringing people back and treating their physical injuries and there should be
exactly the same process to make sure that those who suffer mental health
difficulties as a result of terrorism or other major incidents are dealt with
properly."

Tobias Ellwood, Tory MP for Bournemouth East and a Foreign Office minister,
admitted that Ms Midgeley and her family should be getting help.

"There is a programme is in place and we need to make sure people are aware," he
said.

He said that those caught up in the attacks who wanted support should contact
the Sousse families' unit Foreign Office.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     August 22, 2015 Saturday 10:13 PM GMT

US airman stabbed in French train terror attack leaves hospital

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 756 words


The US airman who was stabbed in the neck as he disarmed a terrorist with a
Kalashnikov on a French passenger train has left hospital.

US Air Force serviceman Spencer Stone, whose left arm was bandaged and in a
sling, gave a quick wave as he walked out of a hospital in Lille this evening.

He left in a black sedan with diplomatic licence plates as counter-terrorism
investigators formally identified the gunman as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub
El-Khazzani. He was armed with an AK-47 and a handgun on the Amsterdam-Paris
train on Friday.

Mr Stone was helped by US National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos and Sacramento State
University student Anthony Sadler along with British IT expert Chris Norman in
tackling El-Khazzani.

Mr Norman, a married grandfather-of-two, said he helped the three Americans
overpower the gunman who opened fire on the train because he thought he was
"probably going to die anyway".

After giving evidence at Arras police station in France, he told waiting press:
"My thought was 'OK I am probably going to die anyway so let's go'. I would
rather die being active, trying to get him down than simply sit in the corner
and be shot."

Mr Stone and Mr Skarlatos, who had returned from a deployment in Afghanistan in
July, grabbed the man while Mr Sadler and Mr Norman joined them to help.

No one had any time to think about the looming danger, according to Mr Norman
who described the passengers' reactions as "very rapid reasoning".

Mr Norman, who lives in France, was facing towards the back of the train when he
heard "glass breaking and then saw somebody running down the aisle to the front
of the train". Then he spotted the AK-47.

He told reporters: "My first reaction was to sit down and hide. Then I heard one
guy, an American say 'go get him'. Then I heard another American say 'don't you
do that buddy' or something like that.

"Then I decided that perhaps this was the only chance for us to act as a team
and try to take over."

Earlier Mr Norman had said: "We ended up by tying him up, then during the
process the guy actually pulled out a cutter and starting cutting Spencer.

"He cut Spencer behind the neck, he nearly cut his thumb off too. Spencer held
him and we eventually got him under control. He went unconscious, I think."

Mr Skarlatos freed the handgun from the man and threw it away. He then grabbed
the AK-47 which was at his feet and started "muzzle-thumping him in the head
with it".

He told Sky News: "Everybody just started beating on the guy while Spencer held
the choke hold, until he went unconscious at that point. People started to
restrain him."

Mr Skarlatos picked up the AK-47 and checked the other carriages in case there
was another gunman.

He returned to carriage 12, where it all started, cleared the weapons and put
them in a pile.

He told Sky News: "I noticed when I removed the round in the chamber of the AK
that the primer had been struck, which means he pulled the trigger on the AK.

"The primer was just faulty, so the gun did not go off, luckily, and he did not
know how to fix it, which was also very lucky.

"When I cleared the handgun I also noticed that there was no magazine in it - so
he had either dropped it accidentally or did not load it properly. He was only
able to get what appeared to be one shot off with the handgun."

Mr Norman and the two uninjured Americans were awarded a bravery medal from the
local mayor. The White House claimed their actions had helped prevent "a far
worse tragedy" while a No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister praised "the
extraordinary courage" of the passengers.

Among the 554 people on board was French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, the star of
Betty Blue and Nikita, who was hit by breaking glass as the alarm was sounded.

In an interview with Paris Match magazine Mr Anglade said train staff entered a
private cabin and locked it when they heard gunshots, leaving the passengers
alone.

He said: "I really could see us all dying because we were all prisoners in that
train, it would have been impossible to escape from that nightmare."

An unnamed French official close to the investigation said El-Khazzani was
identified through his fingerprints and that the French had spotted him in
Berlin on May 10 as he headed to Turkey. They informed their Spanish colleagues,
according to an AP report.

The Spaniards responded on May 21 saying he no longer lived in Spain but in
Belgium, according to the French official.

France has been on edge since the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine and a
Jewish supermarket in Paris in January, which left 17 people dead.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trend on travel Terror attacks won't keep us at home

BYLINE: Nick Trend

SECTION: TRAVEL;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 586 words


At least 10 of those who died at the Erawan shrine in Bangkok this week were
foreign visitors. It is a hugely popular tourist sight, and the atrocity is only
the latest in what has been a terrible summer for terrorist threats and attacks
against holidaymakers. In Tunisia in June, only three months after 21 people,
mostly cruise passengers, were gunned down in the Bardo National Museum, a
gunman on the beach at Sousse in June killed 38 sunbathers. In the same month, a
three-man suicide attack on visitors to the Karnak Temple in Luxor was foiled by
Egyptian security forces. And in March, responding to the heightened threat from
cross-border terrorism from Somalia, the Foreign Office (FO) extended its
warning against all but essential travel to parts of Kenya.

How worried should we be? First, it is important to put things in context. It
has certainly been an appalling year so far. But there is a long history of
attacks on tourists. It is 30 years since both the Palestinian Liberation Front
hijack of the Achille Lauro cruise ship, and the suicide grenade and gun attacks
by the Abu Nidal group that killed 16 people at Rome and Vienna airports. The
first time I visited Cairo, in 1993, a bomb near the Egyptian Museum in Tahrir
Square killed four, including a Swedish tourist. Two years later, in 1995, two
Britons were among a group of tourists kidnapped in Kashmir - both are still
missing, presumed killed. In 1997, 58 tourists were gunned down at the Temple of
Hatshepsut in Luxor, and the brutal doublebombing of a tourist nightclub in Bali
in 2002 killed 202 people. Another 20 died in the 2005 Bali bombings. And so it
goes on. ETA planted bombs on Spanish beaches in 2002 and 2008, and there was an
explosion in the Turkish resort of Kemer in 2011.

It is not a list to bring much comfort, you might think. But the total numbers
killed by terrorists - perhaps 350 in 30 years - is a tiny proportion of the
billions who have travelled safely during that period.

Frankly, the risk of being a victim today is probably greater in London or Paris
than in most parts of the world. Obviously, there are some destinations where
the extent of the threat is so great that it would be foolish to risk
travelling. The FO is clear when that is the case. But the FO is also known for
its reluctance to advise against all travel to a destination, preferring to
articulate risks, rather than take a step that effectively makes it impossible
for British people to visit.

This is as it should be. There will always be a nervous reaction to an attack.
But the British have a reputation for resilience in the face of terrorism. The
recent history of tourism to Egypt, in particular, proves that. Despite some
appalling atrocities, we are determined to return sooner rather than later.

Murdering innocent visitors on holiday, the softest of targets, is certainly a
brutally effective strategy in the short term. It guarantees media coverage in
the home countries of the victims, as well as in the destination where the
attack took place. It undermines the positive dynamic of tourism - generally a
force for good which helps people of different countries and cultures understand
each other better. And it causes maximum economic and political damage as
tourists, intimidated by the threat, stay away. Terrorists know this. They seem
increasingly focused on exploiting it. But history tells us that while they can
cause immense outrage and terrible individual suffering, they won't defeat our
desire to go out and see the world.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Survivors of terror attack in Tunisia 'have been failed'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 142 words


There has been a failure to help the Britons who witnessed the terror attack in
Tunisia when 38 people were killed, it was claimed yesterday.

Maxine Midgely, from Barnsley, said it was a "complete disgrace" that she and
her family had not received psychological support and eventually had to rely on
private health care.

"I had a meltdown about two weeks ago, I ended up smashing a few things in my
house," she told the BBC.

Ms Midgley, her partner Richard Slater and daughter Bronwyn, 14, hid in a
shopkeeper's cupboard as people were killed around them in June.

Tobias Ellwood, a Foreign Office minister, admitted that the family should be
getting help. He said that those caught up in the attacks who wanted support
should contact the Foreign Office.

Some experts have said there should have been an outreach programme to check
that survivors are coping.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'She heard the gunshot. She thought she was next';
Passengers tell of blood, horror, panic and confusion aboard the terror attack
train

BYLINE: David Chazan in ArrasNicola Harley andGregory Walton in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 351 words


WITNESSES spoke last night of their horror as passengers were shot in their
seats when a terrorist opened fire on a train carrying hundreds of people.

Fellow passengers told The Daily Telegraph that they had looked on terri-fied as
one man was shot in the neck and left fighting for his life.

Laurent Duquesne, 43, an engineer, was travelling in the next compartment when
one victim's wife came running in sobbing and asking for help.

"She spoke French and asked if there was a doctor aboard the train and why it
wasn't stopping," he said.

"I went into the compartment and saw a man with what seemed to be a bullet wound
in the neck, with another man trying to staunch the bleeding.

"He himself was wounded in the hand, possibly with a knife.

"They had tied up the gunmen and he was lying face down on the floor of the
compartment with his hands tied behind his back." Mr Duquesne said that the
train arrived in Arras 15 minutes later.

Three people were injured in the attack. John Wisly, a Cameroonian who was
travelling to Paris, said that he had heard the gunshots.

"I didn't know what it was, it was only when I came out of the train that I knew
it was really something serious.

"I saw somebody lying down with bullets around him. It was a critical situation
of panic." Another young woman had told him that she had watched as the
passenger next to her was shot and believed she would be the next victim. "She
said she was hiding when it happened," added Mr Wisly.

"She heard the gunshot, it was just happening next to her. She thought she was
the next victim. They shot somebody just beside her."

Didier Dobremetz, 58, a security of-ficer at Arras station, watched firemen take
the injured off the train.

"One had a wound in the neck and the other in the hand," he said.

"I saw the gunmen and I think he had five Kalashnikov magazines so he could
recharge. His rifle had a short handle so it was more compact and he also had a
handgun and knives.

"It could have been carnage if not for the Americans. I saw the gunmen, tied up,
lying on the platform. He had blood on his face but didn't appear to be
seriously hurt."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 5:35 AM GMT

Train passengers 'FOUR TIMES more likely to be hit by terror attack than fliers'

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 282 words


FEARS over terrorist attacks on public transport have grown after a shooting on
a high-speed train from Amsterdam to Paris.

GETTY FILE PICTURE

Terrorist attacks are more likely on trains than planes, experts have warned

Experts have warned that passengers are far more vulnerable to attacks on trains
than aeroplanes.

There were four times as many malicious deaths on trains as on aircraft from
2002 to 2011, according to a study.

These included the horrific 7/7 bombings, which saw 39 people killed on the
London Underground in 2005 - plus 13 others on a bus.

A year earlier 191 people died and more than 2,000 were injured after a series
of blasts on Madrid's commuter train system.

And 209 were killed on Mumbai's busy Suburban Railway network in July 2006.

Related articles  WARNING: British tourists told NOT to travel on buses or
trains in...  Hero soldier 'shot in neck while tackling terrorist with AK47
in...

The study, by Professor Arnold Barnett, also found the risk per mile is 10 times
higher for people travelling by train than by plane.

This risk has soared in recent years, with Prof Barnett pointing out there were
no malicious deaths on trains between 1982 and 1991.

But officials have been slow to react, with the US spending nine times as much
on plane security as it does on security for trains.

Yesterday's shooting in France, which saw a gunman opened fire before being
overpowered by heroic passengers, has not yet been confirmed as a terrorist
attack.

But counter-terrorism police took over the investigation after local police said
they had not ruled out terrorism as a motive.

And the Bernard Cazeneuve, the Interior Minister, said the shooting could be "of
a terrorist character".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday

Three hurt in French train 'terror' attack

BYLINE: Martin Williams

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 292 words


THREE people have been wounded after a heavily armed man opened fire on a train
in northern France, before being overpowered by two American passengers.

The gunman is said to have been armed with a Kalashnikov automatic rifle and
knives and opened fire on passengers on the high-speed train.

The incident happened on the high-speed Thalys service near Arras, and the
attacker was arrested at Arras station.

He wounded three people on board the Thalys train - one Briton and one American,
both seriously wounded, and one Frenchman - before being overpowered by two
American passengers, believed to be US marines.

The interior minister praised the Americans, one of whom was seriously injured.
It is not known if he was one of the marines involved in subduing the gunman.

The Frenchman who was wounded was Jean-Hugues Anglade, a well-known actor. He
pulled the train alarm.

The man arrested was a 26-year-old Moroccan. Anti-terrorist officers have taken
over the case. According to reports, the marines heard the gunman loading or
reloading his rifle in the train's lavatories.

The train was diverted to Arras station, from where the passengers were
evacuated and the gunman arrested. The anti-terrorist section of the
prosecutor's office is investigating the incident.

The weapons were also said to include a knife, an automatic pistol and
cartridges.

One of the two people seriously hurt had a gunshot wound, the other a knife
wound.

French media said the arrested man was known to the intelligence services. The
suspect has so far refused to talk to police in Arras. The incident took place
on a Thalys train from Amsterdam to Paris, shortly before the train reached the
town of Arras.

Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said the incident was a "terrorist
attack".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 9:38 AM GMT

French train shooting: Hero passengers foil gunman's attack on Amsterdam to
Paris service;
Three passengers were injured, two critically, in the attack which is being
treated as a terrorist incident

BYLINE: Henry Austin, Amelia Jenne in Paris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 842 words


An incredible act of heroism by two American passengers foiled a  gunman armed
with an automatic rifle and knife who attacked passengers on a high speed train
travelling from Amsterdam to Paris. Three passengers were injured, two
critically, in the attack which is being treated as a terrorist incident.

The suspect is a 26-year-old Moroccan who was armed with a Kalashnikov rifle and
a knife and was also carrying nine ammunition magazines.

He was reportedly overpowered by two US marines, who happened to be travelling
on the train.

It is understood they intervened after recognising the sound of the suspect
loading his Kalashnikov. The attacker is believed to have boarded the
Paris-bound express in Belgium. The train set off from Amsterdam shortly after
1pm and the attack happened at 6pm local time.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said he wanted to "express all our
gratitude and admiration to those two American passengers," although he did not
comment on their apparent military background.

"Thanks to the sang-froid of two American passengers, a drama was avoided," he
said, adding that they were "particularly courageous and showed great bravery in
very difficult heir composure we could have been confronted with a terrible
incident," he added.

READ MOREThree injured after gunman opens fire on train

Although Mr Cazeneuve described the attack, which happened about 6pm local time
(4pm BST) as "an act of a terrorist nature", he said investigations were
continuing.

However, French media said the arrested man was known to the intelligence
services and Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said the incident was a
"terrorist attack".

By late last night the suspect was still refusing to talk to police in Arras,
according to reports.

Two of the victims were last night in critical condition, according to a
statement from the office of President Francois Hollande.  One is thought to
have had a gunshot wound and the other a knife wound.

"I express my solidarity with the wounded from the attack on the train from
Amsterdam to Paris. Everything is being done to shed light on this tragedy," the
French leader said in a statement.

A third person, the French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, was also wounded and is
said to have raised the alarm. According to reports, some passengers were able
to jump off the train as it went through the town of Henin-Beaumont - the town
before Arras - on the Amsterdam-Paris line. American Christina Cathleen Coons
who is traveling in France and was on the train, said she heard gunfire, dived
under her seat and opened a pull-down table.

"I saw the man who was shot in the neck stumble," she told NBC News. "He dropped
his bloody duffel bag right in the seat across from me, and he collapsed to the
floor."

While taking cover, Coons said, she thought to herself, "Maybe I'm next. Is this
train going to get shot up?"

France has suffered a series of deadly attacks since the start of the year,
beginning the massacre of staff at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in January.

Armed with assault rifles, two brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, forced their
way into the offices of the publication and opened fire with assault rifles and
other weapons, killing 11 people and injured 11 others in the building.

A massive manhunt led to their discovery and after exchanging fire with police,
the pair took hostages at a signage company before they were shot dead as they
emerged firing from a signage company building they had holed up in.

The remaining Charlie staff continued normal weekly publication, and the
following issue print run 7.95 million copies in six languages.

Two days after the Charlie Hebdo attack Amedy Coulibaly killed four hostages at
a Paris kosher supermarket while demanding the release of the Kouachi brothers.
He also also shot dead a policewoman before he too was killed in a police raids.

French officials have indicted two more men in connection with the attacks.
Identified as 33-year-old "Amar R." and 25-year-old "Said M.," they are accused
of "participating in a terrorist criminal conspiracy to commit crimes against
persons," according to a statement issued by French prosecutors.

In June, truck driver Yassin Salhi, 35,  beheaded his boss Hervé Cornara, 54,
before trying to blow up a chemicals factory.

Before attacking the factory near Lyon, Mr Salhi used his mobile phone to take
an image of himself with the severed head.

He then sent the image to a number in Toronto, Canada. French and Canadian
investigators believe the number may have relayed the image to an acquaintance
of Mr Salhi who is fighting with ISIS in Syria.

However, searches of Mr Salhi's home in the Lyon suburbs produced no evidence to
suggest he was in contact with a terrorist network.

"We are not sure whether he was just a believer in fundamentalist Islam who went
crazy or whether we are dealing with a genuine terrorist," an investigation
source told Le Parisien newspaper shortly after the attack.

"He spoke about personal difficulties linked to his work and family life which
might have led him to commit his crime."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Hero passengers foil gunman's attack on train;
* Kalashnikov and knives used to injure three on board * Assailant stopped by
Marines on Paris express * Moroccan suspect arrested for terror attack French
police on high alert after gunman opens fire on train

BYLINE: HENRY AUSTIN AND AMELIA JENNE IN PARIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 704 words


An incredible act of heroism by two American passengers foiled a gunman armed
with an automatic rifle and knife who attacked passengers on a high speed train
travelling from Amsterdam to Paris. Three passengers were injured, two
critically, in the attack which is being treated as a terrorist incident.

The suspect is a 26-year-old Moroccan who was armed with a Kalashnikov rifle and
a knife and was also carrying nine ammunition magazines.

He was reportedly overpowered by two US marines, who happened to be travelling
on the train.

It is understood they intervened after recognising the sound of the suspect
loading his Kalashnikov. The attacker is believed to have boarded the the
Paris-bound express in Belgium. The train set off from Amsterdam shortly after
1pm and the attack happened at 6pm local time.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said he wanted to "express all our
gratitude and admiration to those two American passengers," although he did not
comment on their apparent military background.

''Thanks to the sang-froid of two American passengers, a drama was avoided," he
said, adding that they were "particularly courageous and showed great bravery in
very difficult circumstances. Without their composure we could have been
confronted with a terrible incident," he added. Although Mr Cazeneuve described
the attack, as "an act of a terrorist nature", he said investigations were
continuing. However, French media said the arrested man was known to the
intelligence services and Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said the
incident was a "terrorist attack". By late last night the suspect was still
refusing to talk to police in Arras, according to reports.

Two of the victims were last night in critical condition, according to a
statement from the office of French President Francois Hollande. One is thought
to have had a gunshot wound and the other a knife wound. "I express my
solidarity with the wounded from the attack on the train from Amsterdam to
Paris. Everything is being done to shed light on this tragedy," the French
leader said.

A third person, the French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, was also wounded and is
said to have raised the alarm. According to reports, some passengers were able
to jump off the train as it went through the town of Henin-Beaumont - the town
before Arras on the Amsterdam-Paris line. American Christina Cathleen Coons, who
is travelling in France and was on the train, said she heard gunfire, dived
under her seat and opened a pull-down table.

"I saw the man who was shot in the neck stumble," she told NBC News. "He dropped
his bloody duffel bag right in the seat across from me, and he collapsed to the
floor."

While taking cover, Coons said she thought to herself: "Maybe I'm next. Is this
train going to get shot up?"

France has suffered a series of deadly attacks since the start of the year,
beginning with the massacre of staff at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in
January.

Armed with assault rifles, two brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, forced their
way into the offices of the publication and opened fire with assault rifles and
other weapons, killing 11 people and injuring 11 others in the building. A
massive manhunt led to their discovery and, after exchanging fire with police,
the pair took hostages at a signage company before they were shot dead.

The remaining Charlie Hebdo staff continued normal weekly publication, and the
following issue's print run sold 7.95 million copies in six languages.

Two days after the Charlie Hebdo attack, Amedy Coulibaly killed four hostages at
a Paris kosher supermarket while demanding the release of the Kouachi brothers.
He also shot dead a policewoman before he too was killed in a police raids.

French officials have indicted two more men in connection with the attacks.
Identified as 33-year-old "Amar R" and 25-year-old "Said M", they are accused of
"participating in a terrorist criminal conspiracy to commit crimes against
persons," according to a statement issued by French prosecutors.

In June, truck driver Yassin Salhi, 35, beheaded his boss Hervé Cornara, 54,
before trying to blow up a chemicals factory. Before the attack, Mr Salhi used
his mobile phone to take an image of himself with the severed head.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 22, 2015 Saturday 11:34 AM GMT

'Go get him!': Briton relives the moment passengers foiled terrorist attack by
crazed gunman on train heading to France

BYLINE: KEILIGH BAKER FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1640 words



     ·    British IT consultant Chris Norman helped tackle crazed gunman on
          train
     ·    Train was bound from Amsterdam to Paris when the attacker opened fire
     ·    Mr Norman and three American men managed to restrain the man
     ·    A 26-year-old Moroccan national has been arrested following the attack




The British IT consultant who helped to foil a terrorist attack on a train
heading to France has described the dramatic moment he and three other men
tackled the crazed gunman.

Passenger Chris Norman, 62, was travelling on board the high speed train between
Amsterdam and Paris when the Moroccan terrorist opened fire with a Kalashnikov,
wounding two people.

Mr Norman, who is from the UK but now lives in France, helped US airman Spencer
Stone and his friends Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler to wrestle the attacker
to the ground, stopping what could have been a fatal terrorist attack.

The 26-year-old Moroccan national, who was known to security services, boarded
the train in Brussels and attempted his attack soon after crossing the French
border.

Mr Norman, who was born in Uganda, grew up in Africa, and studied in South
Africa, the UK, Belgium and the US, said: 'I looked up and saw a guy carrying an
AK-47 or at least I assume it was some kind of machine-gun.

'I ducked down in my seat. Alek got up and Spencer got up and they looked at
what was happening and Alek said to Spencer 'go get him'.

'Spencer jumped up and tackled him and actually started getting the terrorist
under control.'

Mr Norman described how Mr Skarlatos and Mr Sadler also jumped in and helped the
airman to  restrain the terrorist.

He added: 'I came in at the end of it all, and I guess just helped to get the
guy under control at the end.

'We ended up tying him up and during the process the guy pulled out a cutter and
started cutting Spencer, behind the neck, and he nearly cut his thumb off

'But Spencer held him and we eventually got him under control and the terrorist
went unconscious I think.'

It has also been revealed that the attacker pleaded with the group who
overpowered him to 'Give me back my gun'.

Anthony Sadler, an American who was travelling with the two servicemen told AFP:
'We didn't know if the gun wasn't working or anything like that. Spencer [one of
the servicemen] just ran anyway and if anyone had gotten shot, it would have
been Spencer and we're just very lucky that nobody got killed'.

He added: 'He didn't say anything. He was just telling us to give back his gun.
'Give me back my gun! Give me back my gun!' But we just carried on beating him
up and immobilised him and that was it.'

Meanwhile French media site BFMTV  are reporting that the man denies being a
terrorist and instead claims he wanted to carry out an armed robbery and ransom
train passengers.

He also claims he found the weapons in a bag 'by chance in a Brussels Park'.

Mr Stone also suffered a cut to the neck during the attack.

He had spotted the terrorist acting suspiciously and heard him trying to load
his weapon in the toilet of the high speed train, which had more than 550
passengers on board.

When the attacker came out of the toilet brandishing the gun he opened fire and
wounded two people on board. Fortunately, the hero passengers were nearby and
overpowered him.

The Telegraph reports  the mayor of Arras, Frederic Leturque, said a French man
was hit in the neck. He said: 'He's in hospital in Lille and his injuries are
not life-threatening, as far as I know. He was conscious and I spoke to him.

'I gave medals during the night to several of the passengers who acted with such
bravery in the train, including the British man, who lives in France.'

Video footage of the aftermath of the attack has emerged, showing a man who
appears to be the gunman lying on the floor with his hands and feet tied up with
t-shirts after he was beaten unconscious.

The camera then pans around to the Kalashnikov resting on a seat surrounded by
blood stains on the windows.

The terrorist, named in reports as Ayoub el-Qahzzani, had at least nine full
magazines of ammunition holding almost 300 rounds.

He was arrested by police at the train station in Arras and taken to hospital
where he is now in custody.

El Pais  has claimed that the terror suspect had recently been in Syria before
returning to Europe to launch his attack.

French media claim that the suspect was previously known to French security
services and was living in Spain. He has already been linked to a number of
radical Islamic groups. He was classed, according to FranceInfo.fr as
'potentially dangerous'.

'We heard a gunshot, and we heard glass breaking behind us, and saw a train
employee sprint past us down the aisle,' Mr Sadler said from France.

'As he was cocking it to shoot it, Alek just yells, 'Spencer, go!' And Spencer
runs down the aisle,'

'Spencer makes first contact, he tackles the guy, Alek wrestles gun away from
him, and the gunman pulls out a box cutter and slices Spencer a few times. And
the three of us beat him until he was unconscious.'

'The gunman never said a word,' he added.

Skarlatos described Stone's heroic actions to  ITV News in the aftermath of the
attack.

'Spencer ran a good ten metres to get to the guy and we didn't know that his gun
not working or anything like that,' he said.

 'Spencer just ran anyway and if anybody would have gotten shot it would have
been Spencer for sure and we're very lucky that nobody got killed, especially
Spencer.'

He added that he was in 'good spirits' in hospital, but was still shocked by
what unfolded.

Pentagon spokesman Commander William Urban confirmed that one member of American
military had been injured, but declined to formally identify him.

The men have since been commended for their bravery by US President Barack Obama
and French President Francois Hollande has tweeted that he will meet with the
men tomorrow to thank them.

Speaking in Arras, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve praised the
Marines for their timely intervention.

He said: 'Thanks to them we have averted a drama.

'(The Americans were) particularly courageous and showed extreme bravery in
extremely difficult circumstances.'

The man was arrested by police near the town of Arras in northern France.

Belgian journalist Marin Buxant Tweeted that the US Marines were on leave in
Brussels when they spotted the man and followed him on the train. When the
suspect went into the toilet, the Marines recognised the sound of a weapon being
armed and decided to act immediately.

The motives behind the attack were not immediately known, although a spokesman
for the interior minister said: 'It is too early to speak of a terrorist link'.

The incident happened approximately 115 miles north of Paris near the town of
Arras.

Engineer Laurent Duquesne said he followed a woman who was looking for help with
her husband when he saw the carnage.

He told The Telegraph : 'I went into the compartment and saw a man with what
seemed to be a bullet wound in the neck, with another man trying to staunch the
bleeding.

'He himself was wounded in the hand, possibly with a knife. They had tied up the
gunmen and he was lying face down on the floor of the compartment with his hands
tied behind his back.'

French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, who appeared in the 1986 cult film 'Betty
Blue' starring Beatrice Dalle, was lightly injured. It is understood he cut his
hand while breaking the glass on the emergency alarm.

The actor told Paris Match: 'The gunman came to us, he was determined. I thought
it was the end, we were going to die, he was going to kill us all.'

He also thanked the men who bravely tackled the assailant.

He added: 'I want to pay tribute to their heroic courage and thank them, without
them we'd all be dead.'

France remains on edge after Islamic extremists attacked the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket in Paris in January.

In June, a man beheaded his boss and tried to blow up a gas plant in southern
France in what prosecutors say was an attack inspired by ISIS.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said yesterday: 'We are aware of reports of shots
being fired on a train in France.

'We are aware of reports that shots were fired on a train in France earlier
today. The French authorities have responded. There are no reports that British
nationals have been injured.'

Interior ministry spokesman Pierre Henry Brandet said: 'A man opened fire on
this Thalys train between Amsterdam and Paris, one person was very seriously
injured. Talking about a terrorist motive would be premature at the moment.'

Francois Hollande, the French president, has said: 'I express my solidarity with
the wounded from the attack on the train from Amsterdam to Paris. Everything is
being done to shed light on this tragedy.'

Passenger Christina Coons from New York described the drama in carriage 12 of
the train in an interview with Ouest France newspaper.

'I heard shots, most likely two, and a guy collapsed,' she said.

Ms Coons, a 28-year-old on holiday in Europe, said a window broke above one
woman's head: 'A guy fell to the floor and had blood everywhere.'

She described lying on the floor herself and taking photos with her phone.

'I thought there would be a shoot-out in the train,' she said.

Europe's major railway stations, such as Paris' Gare du Nord and Brussels' Gare
du Midi, are patrolled by soldiers armed with rifles, but passengers can board
most high-speed trains without passing through metal detectors or having their
bags searched.

One exception is the Eurostar between Paris and London. Passengers on those
trains must pass through a metal detector and have their bags scanned as well.

Thalys is owned by the French and Belgian railways and operates high-speed
trains serving Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Cologne, Germany.

French authorities have been on heightened alert since Islamic extremist attacks
in January left 20 people dead, including the three attackers.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 22, 2015 Saturday 10:47 PM GMT

Who is Ayoub el-Khazzani? French train shooting suspect accused of opening fire
in botched terrorist attack;
A terrorist opened fire on a train travelling between Amsterdam and Paris and
was "known to authorities" in both France and Spain

BYLINE: By Gerard Couzins

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 457 words


A terrorist opened fire on a train travelling between Amsterdam and Paris
yesterday, injuring several people before being wrestled to the ground by heroic
passengers.

He was tackled by off-duty American soldiers as he screamed at the men to give
him back his weapons.

The immediate aftermath of the French train attack

The gunman was bundled to the floor and then pummelled by brave US nationals
Spencer Stone and Alek Skarlatos.

He was later named by Spanish and French media as Ayoub el-Khazzani.

Heroic marines give a gripping account of how they stopped the train gunman

El-Khazzani is accused of firing a Kalashnikov before being overpowered by the
heroes who heard him cock the weapon in the toilet.

Cabin crew apparently barricaded themselves in the staffroom and locked the
door, leaving passengers to fend for themselves.

Read below for all you need to know about El-Khazzani and the terror attack.

The Paris train shooting suspect lived in Spain for seven years.

The Moroccan spent time in Madrid before moving to a rundown neighbourhood of
Algeciras for a year in 2013.

His parents are still said to live in a rundown neighbourhood of the southern
port city - home to more than 10,000 Muslims - and make their living as scrap
metal dealers.

Spanish police alerted French authorities in March 2014 about El-Khazzani and
"his relationship with radical Islam".

Spanish anti-terrorist services allegedly also included his data in a Schengen
area police database because of his religious extremism.

El-Khazzani is understood to have lived in Spain legally with a National
Foreigners' Number or NIE.

Spanish newspaper El Pais said he had been arrested twice for drugs trafficking,
in May and December 2009, and a third time in Spain's north African enclave of
Ceuta on a warrant issued by a court in Madrid for a drugs offence.

The newspaper reported he was still the subject of an arrest warrant issued by
another court in Madrid for a drugs-related offence.

It said he had spent time in Spanish jails, although the country's Prison
Service has not confirmed the claim.

He is understood to have suffered a process of Islamic radicalisation after his
arrests.

We cannot know for sure, but he was wielding an AK-47 assault rifle and shot at
several people before he was overcome.

Spencer Stone was the first to pounce on the gunman before he could commit any
acts of horror.

He was joined by his servicemen pals Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, who
managed to hold the 26-year-old Moroccan until police arrived.

Today, a wounded Spencer emerged from Lille hospital dressed in bandages and a
sling, before waving to photographers and entering a black government car.

Anthony Sadler's dad beams with pride over his son's heroic actions in the
French train attack

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday

Passengers thwart terrorist attack on French train

BYLINE: Chris Marshall

LENGTH: 478  words


A BRITON and three Americans have been hailed as heroes after they overpowered a
heavily armed gunman on a French train.

The passengers helped thwart what authorities believe to have been a terror
attack by a man suspected of having radical Islamist beliefs.

Americans Spencer Stone and Alek Skarlatos, members of the US Air Force and the
National Guard respectively, subdued the gunman after they heard him load a
weapon in a toilet cubicle.

A French passenger had tried to enter the toilet when he encountered the gunman
and tried to overpower him. The gun was then fired and the two Americans
launched their attack.

They were then joined by their friend Anthony Sadler and 62-year-old Briton
Chris Norman.

The incident took place on a high-speed train, which was travelling between
Paris and Amsterdam on Friday night.

Norman, who lives in France, told reporters he was sitting in the same carriage
as the Americans when they heard a shot.

"I saw a guy carrying an AK-47, or at least I assumed it was some kind of
machine gun.

"I ducked down in my seat, Alek looked at what was happening, Spencer looked at
what was happening, and Alek said to Spencer, Go get him'. Spencer jumped up and
tackled him and started getting the terrorist under control.

"Alek jumped up and helped Spencer, followed immediately by Anthony, and I came
in at the end of it all and I guess just helped get the guy under control. We
ended up by tying him up, then during the process the guy pulled out a cutter
and starting cutting Spencer.

"He cut Spencer behind the neck, he nearly cut his thumb off too. Spencer held
him and we eventually got him under control. He went unconscious, I think."

Stone's friends praised his quick reactions and bravery in being the first one
to approach the gunman.

Skarlatos said: "Spencer ran a good ten metres to get to the guy and we didn't
know that his gun wasn't working or anything like that. Spencer just ran anyway
and if anybody would have gotten shot it would have been Spencer for sure."

The suspect is a 26-year-old Moroccan, and anti-terror police are leading the
investigation. French authorities said three people were injured, two of them
seriously - one with a gunshot wound, the other a knife wound.

Stone was reported to be "in good spirits" and "doing great" as he recovers in
hospital.

Norman and the two uninjured Americans were awarded a bravery medal from the
local mayor.

A spokesman for No 10 Downing Street said: "The Prime Minister praised the
extraordinary courage of the passengers who intervened and helped disarm the
gunman, including the British consultant Chris Norman." The White House also
praised their actions, saying that they had helped prevent "a far worse
tragedy".

The 554 passengers included French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, the star of Betty
Blue and Nikita, who was wounded breaking glass in an attempt to to sound the
alarm.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Marines stop AK-47 terror attack on packed Paris train;
3 wounded, then unarmed US soldiers wrestle gunman to floor

BYLINE: Arthur Martin ;Tom Payne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 660 words


TWO US Marines managed to avert a major terrorist atrocity when they tackled a
gunman as he opened fire on board a packed train in northern France yesterday.

The heavily-armed gunman, a 26-year-old Moroccan known to security services,
started shooting an AK-47 rifle on the train from Paris to Amsterdam - wounding
three passengers.

Two unarmed US Marines who were on the train managed to wrestle the suspect to
the ground.

The pair, who are thought to have been off-duty, were alerted by chance when
they heard the gunman loading his AK-47 in a toilet.

Terrified passengers jumped off the moving train as the Marines forced the
shooter to the ground.

It emerged last night that his deadly arsenal included at least nine full
magazines of ammunition, holding almost 200 rounds, as well as a handgun and a
knife.

As he was pinned to the ground, the attacker fired a number of bullets and hit
three people.

One of the Marines and another passenger are in a critical condition. The third
person was French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade.

The motive for the attack is unknown but counter-terrorist police have taken
over the investigation. The train eventually stopped in the town of Arras in
northern France.

Pictures later emerged showing the gunman being handcuffed on a platform,
surrounded by plain clothes officers. Police evacuated Arras station and closed
it so forensic teams can gather evidence from the train.

Twitter user John Van der Tol tweeted an image of what appeared to be a man
being restrained. 'Man with machine gun in Arras (France) taken down by US
Marines,' he wrote.

Christophe Piednoel, a spokesman for national railway operator SNCF, said the
suspect was armed with an automatic rifle and a knife.

The train was passing through Belgium when the incident unfolded but was later
diverted to the French town of Arras, 115 miles north of Paris, where the
suspect was arrested.

France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve praised the Marines after
travelling to the town last night.

He said: 'Thanks to them we have averted a drama. The Americans were
particularly courageous and showed extreme bravery in extremely difficult
circumstances.' There were no security or immigration officials on the train
because both France and Holland are signatories to the Schengen agreement which
means there are no border controls between the two countries.

France has a Muslim population of 3.5million and has been subjected to a number
of terror attacks. In January Al Qaeda assassins killed 12 in an attack on the
offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

The fanatics murdered nine magazine staff and two policemen, one as he lay
wounded and pleading for his life. The attack came just hours after the magazine
had tweeted a satirical cartoon of Islamic State's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

It sparked a massive manhunt and the killers were later shot outside a print
works by armed police.

Interior ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said: 'A man opened fire on
this train between Amsterdam and Paris, one person was very seriously injured.
Talking about a terrorist motive would be premature at the moment.' The injured
actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, 60, is probably best known as the star of 1986 French
film Betty Blue.

A statement from the Elysee Palace, the home of French President Francois
Hollande, said: 'The President of the Republic is being kept informed in the
aftermath of the attack carried out on the Amsterdam-Paris train. Three people
have been injured and two of them are in a critical condition. They are being
attended to by emergency services.

'The aggressor, who has not yet been identified, was arrested at Arras train
station, where the interior minister will be shortly.

'Everything is being done to shed some light on this drama and gain as much
information about it as possible.

'The President of the Republic offers his solidarity to those injured and to
their loved ones.'

'Particularly courageous'

'Shed some light on this drama'

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chilling: At least nine magazines lie on the ground, some of them still
containing bulletsWounds: Ambulance crews tend to two casualtiesAgony: A victim
is stretchered from the sceneForced to the ground: The gunman after he was
restrained by US Marines

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 7:36 PM GMT

French train terror attack: British hero tells how he helped tackle gunman;
British management consultant Chris Norman tells how he helped restrain gunman
who brought terror to high-speed Amsterdam to Paris train

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer Gregory Walton and David Chazan in Arras

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


The British rail passenger who helped to foil a terrorist attack on a high-speed
train from Amsterdam to Paris has described the moment he helped three other men
tackled the gunman.

· France train attack - latest

Confronted by Kalashnikov wielding terrorist on the high speed Amsterdam to
Paris train Chris Norman's first instinct was to hide.

But the 62-year-old management consultant then made the brave calculation that
he stood more chance of surviving if he stood up to the gunman.

The grandfather of two described the moment on Friday he helped three other men
tackle the Moroccan terrorist, who had earlier boarded the train at Brussels.

Mr Norman helped US airman Spencer Stone and his friends Alek Skarlatos and
Anthony Sadler to wrestle the attacker to the ground, stopping what could have
been a fatal attack.

Speaking outside Arras police station on Saturday, he said: "I was sitting
working on my computer. I saw a man with a Kalashnikov. I said to myself, s***.

"I heard an American saying 'go get him', then someone else saying, 'no you
don't do that'. Then I realised the only way to survive was go for him.

"My thought was I am going to die anyway so let's go. I'd rather die being
active than sitting in the corner being shot. Once you start moving, you're not
afraid anymore." under control.'

Describing the moment his fellow rail passengers tackled the terrorist Mr Norman
said: "Spencer jumped up and tackled him and actually started getting the
terrorist under control. I came in at the end of it all, and I guess just helped
to get the guy under control at the end.

"He put up a bit of a fight but Spencer is a strong guy and he succeeded in
overpowering him. I held down his arm, his left arm, so he couldn't get his gun.
He was relatively thin and not that strong so I didn't have too much difficulty
keeping him pinned down."

He added: "I think his (attacker's) gun jammed. We were incredibly lucky. The
great thing is that everyone in the train managed to overpower him without
anyone being killed."

Mr Norman lives in Nimes, in the south of France, where his wife Martine is
looking after their two grand-children.

A British national, he was born in Uganda and attended the University of Cape
Town, before going on to take a master's degree at Reading University and a
diploma in accountancy at the then Polytechnic of Central London.

He has spent the past two decades working in France for firms such as Deloitte
and Levi Strauff and had been returning from a business meeting in Holland,
where he was working to help African entrepreneurs get financing in Europe, when
the gunman launched his attack.

David Cameron praised Mr Norman and the other men for their bravery.

A No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister praised the extraordinary courage of
the passengers who intervened and helped disarm the gunman, including the
British consultant Chris Norman."

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, wrote on Twitter: "Grateful to those who
stopped attack on French train, including Brit Chris Norman. UK stands beside
France against all terrorist acts."

But Mr Norman, who has two children, one in the French Navy, brushed off talk of
him being a hero, saying his first instinct had been to hide.

"I wasn't trained for this at all," he said. "I'm not a hero I just did what I
could. All I want to do now is go home and spend time with my family."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 7:03 PM GMT

Gunman opens fire on Amsterdam-Paris train - in pictures;
In pics: Moroccan terrorist wielding a Kalashnikov attacks passengers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 11 words


In pics: Moroccan terrorist wielding a Kalashnikov attacks passengers

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 5:54 PM GMT

France train attack: Would you take on a terrorist?;
The actions of two off-duty US servicemen saved countless lives during Friday's
terrorist attack in France. Having served with US Forces, I would expect nothing
less

BYLINE: By Col Tim Collins

LENGTH: 420 words


It was a particularly unlucky would-be murderer, no doubt driven by the tenets
of the Islamist death cult, that he chose to do his mischief on Friday in a
railway carriage where three Americans, two of them off-duty US servicemen, just
happened to be sitting. It was very lucky for the many other tourists and
commuters that Spencer Stone of the US Air Force, Alek Skarlatos of the National
Guard and their friend Anthony Sadler were there.

Had the traditional European reserve been in play it is likely that there would
have been wholesale murder. As it was the strong tradition of US servicemen to
be "always on duty", they no doubt saved lives.

In my experience, the US serviceman does not experience the excruciating levels
of self-consciousness that dogs the European armies. Despite a low during the
Vietnam era, US service personnel are proud of their country's uniform and
service and the nation is proud right back.

Listen carefully in any US airport for the frequent announcements inviting US
service personnel to special lounges. When they fly in uniform they will always
be offered an upgrade and they will always refuse, regarding sitting with the
other citizens their duty. Is it any wonder that they respond by serving their
country so well?

Contrast the indifference to the servicemen and women of our own country. It was
recently reported that a hotel in Scotland asked a veteran of the Iraq War to
take off his services charity shirt as it featured a Union flag. That would
never happen in the US.

It is true to say, that while brash and likely to complain in restaurants and
shops, the US are among the most polite folk you could meet. On the many
occasions I have served with US Forces I am always struck at their patience and
sense of fair play.

It is the cornerstone of their huge nation that the common good is symbolised by
the country's flag, where our military motivation here in the UK is more tribal
- hence the (now threatened) regimental system. I would like to think that any
British serviceman would have done the same on the train at Arras.

But it is not just servicemen in the US who would come forward in a crisis, as
illustrated by the heroes of Flight 93 on 9/11 who died in their attempt to
tackle the hijackers. It is an American thing. I salute it.

Col Tim Collins OBE is a former SAS officer who commanded the 1st Battalion,
Royal Irish Regiment during the invasion of Iraq. He is a specialist in the
field of counterinsurgency and security.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 22, 2015 Saturday 4:19 PM GMT

French train terror attack: British hero tells how he helped tackle gunman;
British management consultant Chris Norman tells how he helped restrain gunman
who brought terror to high-speed Amsterdam to Paris train

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer Gregory Walton and David Chazan in Arras

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words


The British rail passenger who helped to foil a terrorist attack on a high-speed
train from Amsterdam to Paris has described the moment he helped three other men
tackled the gunman.

· France train attack - latest

Chris Norman, 62, was travelling on board the high speed Thalys train when the
Moroccan terrorist opened fire with a Kalashnikov, wounding two people.

He said: "It could have been a real carnage, there's no question about that."

Mr Norman, who is from the UK but now lives in France, helped US airman Spencer
Stone and his friends Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler to wrestle the attacker
to the ground, stopping what could have been a fatal attack.

He said: "I looked up and saw a guy carrying an AK-47 or at least I assume it
was some kind of machine-gun.

"I ducked down in my seat. Alek got up and Spencer got up and they looked at
what was happening and Alek said to Spencer 'go get him'.

"Spencer jumped up and tackled him and actually started getting the terrorist
under control.'

Mr Norman described how Mr Skarlatos and Mr Sadler also leapt into action and
helped the airman to restrain the gunman.

He added: "I came in at the end of it all, and I guess just helped to get the
guy under control at the end.

"We ended up tying him up and during the process the guy pulled out a cutter and
started cutting Spencer, behind the neck, and he nearly cut his thumb off. But
Spencer held him and we eventually got him under control and the terrorist went
unconscious I think."

Mr Norman is a management consultant and risk assessor with more than 30-years'
experience, based in the French city of Nimes.

He was born in Uganda and attended the University of Cape Town, before going on
to take a master's degree at Reading University and a diploma in accountancy at
the then Polytechnic of Central London.

He has spent the past two decades working in France.

According to his LinkedIn profile he currently "provides mergers and
acquisitions consulting services for businesses wishing to set up or optimise
their operations in Africa".

The mayor of Arras, Frederic Leturque, who presented a civic medal to Mr Norman
and the other men in recognition of their bravery, told the Telegraph:

"Three servicemen who happened to be in the train going on holiday in France saw
the gunman go into the toilet with a bulky bag. Then they heard the noise of him
loading a gun and they went to the door of the toilet and managed to overpower
him when he came out.

"A British man, Chris (Norman) and other passengers also helped tackle him and
tie him up. When the shots were fired, a Frenchman was hit in the neck.

"I gave medals during the night to several of the passengers who acted with such
bravery in the train, including the British man, who lives in France."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Gunman opens fire in 'terrorist attack' on train bound for Paris

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 493 words


A 26-year-old Moroccan was in custody in France last night after he fired an
automatic rifle on a crowded express train travelling from Amsterdam to Paris,
in what was deemed a potential terrorist attack.

The man, who was said to be known to the French intelligence service, was
overpowered by two United States military personnel - who were passengers -
after they saw him behaving suspiciously as the service headed into France from
Belgium. In the scuffle one of the Americans was shot by a Kalashnikov-style
weapon and seriously injured. There were early suggestions that a Briton had
been hurt but the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it had no reports of
British casualties.

French authorities were treating the incident, which happened shortly before 6pm
French time, as a potential Islamist terrorist attack.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, flew to Arras, in northern France,
where the Thalys Amsterdam-Brussels-Paris service had stopped. President
Hollande said that everything would be done to shed light on the man who had
fired the shots.

Mr Cazeneuve praised the action of the US servicemen, said by witnesses to be
Marines, who thwarted what could have been a deadly attack. "We express all our
recognition and admiration for the calmness that they displayed," he said. "My
thoughts are with the wounded and with the passengers."

The gunman, who boarded the train in Brussels, was said to have attracted the
attention of the Americans when he headed for the lavatory with a bag. They
heard him loading a "Kalashnikov-style" weapon and tackled him, according to
initial reports. The man was detained by police in Arras.

Among those hurt on the train was Jean-Pierre Anglade, a French film star, who
received minor injuries as he broke the glass to call for an emergency stop.

France is on alert after a series of Islamist terrorist attacks, including the
murders of 18 people at the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and
other sites around Paris in January.

In June a man beheaded his boss and tried to blow up a gas plant in southern
France in what prosecutors say was an attack inspired by Islamic State.

Fabienne Buccio, the government prefect of the North region, said that it was
too early to reach any conclusions over the motive for the shooting. Most of the
554 passengers on the train continued their journey to Paris later last night.

Mr Hollande telephoned Charles Michel, the Belgian prime minister, to
co-ordinate their response to what appeared to be another home-grown jihadist
attack in their countries. Mr Michel is reported to have described yesterday's
shooting as a terrorist attack. The two governments have warned of the
likelihood of more "lone-wolf" Islamist attacks after a spate of incidents
carried out by nationals with immigrant backgrounds from Muslim states.

The Pentagon confirmed last night that a US military serviceman was hurt in the
incident, adding that his injuries were not life-threatening.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The suspect is detained at Arras and, below, gun magazines at the
sceneEmergency services tend to victims after the shooting incident on the
express train from Amsterdam to ParisCHRISTINA CATHLEEN COONS/ANTOINE DE
SILVA/PASCAL ROSSIGNOL/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Terror' attack on high-speed train

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 183 words


A GUNMAN last night opened fire with an automatic weapon on a highspeed train
travelling from Amsterdam to Paris, wounding three people, two of them
critically.

The suspect was arrested after the train stopped in Arras, 115 miles north of
Paris, Interior Ministry spokesman Pierre-Henri Brandet said. Passengers were
evacuated.

Investigators from France's special anti-terror police were leading the
investigation, a spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor's office said.

Two of the victims were in a critical condition. The suspect is a 26-year-old
Moroccan, said Sliman Hamzi, an offi-cial with police union Alliance.

Christophe Piednoel, a spokesman for national railway operator SNCF, said the
suspect was armed with an automatic rifle and a knife.

France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said two American passengers
subdued the gunman and one was in hospital with serious wounds.

Mr Cazeneuve said the American passengers "were particularly courageous and
showed great bravery in very difficult circumstances" and that "without their
sangfroid we could have been confronted with a terrible drama".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 23, 2015 Sunday 11:46 AM GMT

French train terror: American heroes tell how they halted attacker's Kalashnikov
slaughter bid "Give me back my gun!" - American heroes tell of French train
terror attacker's Kalashnikov slaughter bid;
OFF-DUTY US servicemen Spencer Stone and Alek Skarlatos tackled the Moroccan
gunman after he loaded a rifle on the packed Amsterdam to Paris train.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 766 words


A TERRORIST suspect begged for his gun back as he was overpowered by hero train
passengers.

Off-duty US servicemen Spencer Stone and Alek Skarlatos tackled the Moroccan
gunman, named as Ayoub El-Kahzani, 26, after he loaded a Kalashnikov AK-47 rifle
on the packed Amsterdam to Paris train.

The pair's friend, student Anthony Sadler, 23, and British expat Chris Norman,
62, then helped them to subdue the gunman.

Anthony, who was visiting his servicemen friends in Europe, said: "He was just
telling us to give back his gun. 'Give me back my gun! Give me back my gun!'

"But we just carried on beating him up and immobilised him and that was it."

Yesterday, Spencer, 23, a US Air Force airman who was slashed badly with a
box-cutter as he tackled El-Kahzzani, was released from hospital. And his
friends described the drama which unfolded as they sprang into action to stop
potential carnage on Friday.

They have been hailed as heroes - and received a phone call of congratulations
from US president Barack Obama.

Anthony said they saw a train employee sprint down the aisle of the train -
which had 554 people on board - followed by a gunman with a Kalashnikov.

He added: "As he was cocking it to shoot it, Alek just yells, 'Spencer, go!' And
Spencer runs down the aisle.

"Spencer makes first contact, he tackles the guy. Alek wrestles the gun away
from him and the gunman pulls out a boxcutter and slices Spencer a few times.

"And the three of us beat him until he was unconscious."

He added: "I came to see my friends on my first trip in Europe and we stopped a
terrorist. It's kind of crazy."

Business consultant Chris was presented with a medal of bravery yesterday
alongside Anthony and Alek, an Oregon national guardsman just back from
Afghanistan.

Clutching the medal - awarded by the mayor of Arras, the town in northern France
where the incident happened - he said: "My thought was, 'OK, I am probably going
to die anyway so let's go.'

" I would rather die being active, trying to get him down, than sit in the
corner and be shot.

"I came in at the end of it all, helped get the guy under control. We ended up
tying him up."

Chris, who settled in France 20 years ago, added: "It's just a feeling of relief
that no one got killed. It could have been real carnage."

Mobile phone footage from inside the train shows the suspect, a skinny man
wearing white trousers and no shirt, flattened on the floor of the train with
his hands and feet tied behind his back.

A Kalashnikov is seen leaning against a seat and blood is visible on a window.

Two people apart from Spencer were wounded, one by a gunshot from a handgun.

Anthony said the other had a throat wound and Spencer, who has paramedic
training, tended to him despite his own injuries.

The gunman, who is understood to have been living in Belgium, was being
interviewed by French counter-terrorism officials yesterday.

A spokesman for Belgium's federal prosecutor identified the man as El-Kahzani.

Belgian authorities were investigating where he lived and where he got his
weapons, the spokesman said.

Alek revealed the terrorist's gun had jammed following his first shot, which
blew out a window.

He said: "If that guy's weapon would have been functioning properly I don't even
want to think about how it would have went.

"I got back from Afghanistan last month, and this was my vacation from
Afghanistan."

In a statement, the White House said: "It is clear that their heroic actions may
have prevented a far worse tragedy."

David Cameron also hailed the courage of the passengers. A Downing Street
spokesman said: "The bravery of Mr Norman and the other passengers helped to
prevent a terrible incident."

French president Francois Hollande is planning to thank the men involved in
person in the coming days.

French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said his counter-terrorism unit
believed that the gunman held radical Islamist beliefs.

He had lived in Algeciras in southern Spain until 2014 before moving to Belgium
this year.

It is believed he had recently travelled through Syria, much of which is
controlled by Islamic State jihadis.

He boarded the train in Brussels and attempted the attack after it crossed the
French border.

Sources said he was listed on an "S" card in France, which meant his details
were recorded by anti-terror cops but he was not necessarily being monitored.

A French television station quoted police sources as saying he denies being a
terrorist and told detectives he only planned to rob the train.

He claims he found the bag of weapons, including the rifle and around 200 rounds
of ammunition, in a park in Brussels.

Quick Quiz: News 21/08/15

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       August 23, 2015 Sunday 9:01 AM GMT

Fears over security at Scotland's nuclear bases as union say too many cops have
been axed Fears over security at Scotland's nuclear bases as union say too many
cops have been axed;
THE Ministry of Defence Police Federation have warned that planned staff cuts
will put Faslane at increased risk of terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: By Norman Silvester

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 786 words


SECURITY at Scotland's nuclear bases is at an all-time low due to government
defence cuts, according to police guarding them.

Union leaders say bosses have axed 900 officers from the Ministry of Defence
Police (MDP) since 2010, resulting in numbers falling from 3500 to 2600.

Eamon Keating, chairman of the MDP Federation, yesterday said the security
situation is on a "knife-edge" and any more cuts could mean the bases are no
longer secure.

He warned further planned savings would put Faslane's Trident nuclear sub base
on the Clyde at increasing risk of terrorist attack and other security breaches.

A high-security storage and loading facility at Coulport, Argyll, would also
become more vulnerable.

Keating said: "The Government are looking at reducing costs at a time when the
security threat level has never been higher.

"We're at the point where we are just about delivering the security required.
Any more and you would go beyond that tipping point and would be impossible to
do. It would start to collapse.

"I don't see that you could reduce security any more and continue to say, hand
on heart, that these establishments did not have vulnerability. We're right on a
knife-edge with the numbers we've got."

The MDP are responsible for guarding all government defence buildings and
installations, including Britain's Trident submarine fleet at Faslane and
Coulport.

Half of the 2600 officers are used to guard the two bases.

UK ministers are said to be preparing further cuts later this year within the
MDP as part of their ongoing strategic defence and security review.

In the past 20 years, the number of MDP officers across Britain has dropped by
more than half, from 5500 to its current number.

Keating says more officers should be recruited and numbers returned to the 2010
figure.

He added: "My frustration comes from the fact that the risk and threat to the
country and the people we're protecting is increasing and yet our numbers appear
to be regularly decreasing.

"We think the last set of cuts went too far. To go from 3500 down to where we
are now is too much.

"Our officers are still working quite excessive overtime to cover shortfalls and
we're incredibly short in some establishments.

"If they were to cut any further, then you're taking them beyond the point where
they're sustainable."

The MDP also guard the top-secret listening centre at Government Communications
Headquarters in Cheltenham, the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment at
Aldermaston in Berkshire and government defence offices in Whitehall.

Keating added: "This is about nuclear security and it must be absolute. There's
no second chance if we get it wrong."

Nearly every MDP officer in Britain is armed while on duty.

There has been growing concern recently about security at our nuclear sites. Two
campaigners from a peace camp at Faslane were arrested last year aboard a Royal
Navy submarine.

Earlier this year, William McNeilly, a Royal Navy submariner, raised concerns
over safety and security procedures at Faslane.

Keating said: "The threat has changed massively in the 26 years I've been
working as a police officer.

"The terrorists are far more sophisticated than they used to be. Our officers
have to be incredibly vigilant and the process and practices we put in place
have to be robust."

It is also feared that out nuclear bases and top-secret centres in the future
will be guarded by a Dad's Army of aged armed officers forced to work gruelling
12-hour shifts.

Changes in pension rules last year mean MDP officers have to work until they are
67 to get their full pension.

Keating added: "Potentially, you can have a 67-year-old protecting the nuclear
deterrent with an automatic weapon.

"Our officers are carrying nearly 5kg of equipment for 12 hours a day, including
firearms, body armour, baton, ammunition belts and respirators.

"Can you pick up 5kg? Of course. But can you do it 12 hours a day for 50 years?
You would not arm any other officer in this country over 60 years of age."

The MoD said: "Keeping our personnel and our assets safe is our absolute
priority and our security arrangements are kept under continual review and
frequently tested.

"In 2012, we completed a very careful examination of the requirements for the
guarding of defence establishments and concluded there was scope to make
sensible and prudent savings in the way these activities are carried out while
maintaining effective security.

"We continue to fully safeguard all of our sites, including nuclear facilities,
and would never contemplate changes that would place these in jeopardy.

"The police are just one of the security providers we use and, in some cases,
military personnel are now in roles previously delivered by the MDP."

Quick Quiz: News 20/08/15

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      August 23, 2015 Sunday 12:06 AM BST

US AIRMAN STABBED IN FRENCH TRAIN TERROR ATTACK LEAVES HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Helen William and Dominic Harris, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1497 words


The US airman who was stabbed in the neck as he disarmed a terrorist with a
Kalashnikov on a French passenger train has left hospital.

US Air Force serviceman Spencer Stone, whose left arm was bandaged and in a
sling, gave a quick wave as he walked out of a hospital in Lille this evening.

He left in a black sedan with diplomatic licence plates as counter-terrorism
investigators formally identified the gunman as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub
El-Khazzani. He was armed with an AK-47 and a handgun on the Amsterdam-Paris
train on Friday.

Mr Stone was helped by US National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos and Sacramento State
University student Anthony Sadler along with British IT expert Chris Norman in
tackling El-Khazzani.

Mr Norman, a married grandfather-of-two, said he helped the three Americans
overpower the gunman who opened fire on the train because he thought he was
``probably going to die anyway''.

After giving evidence at Arras police station in France, he told waiting press:
``My thought was 'OK I am probably going to die anyway so let's go'. I would
rather die being active, trying to get him down than simply sit in the corner
and be shot.''

Mr Stone and Mr Skarlatos, who had returned from a deployment in Afghanistan in
July, grabbed the man while Mr Sadler and Mr Norman joined them to help.

No one had any time to think about the looming danger, according to Mr Norman
who described the passengers' reactions as ``very rapid reasoning''.

Mr Norman, who lives in France, was facing towards the back of the train when he
heard ``glass breaking and then saw somebody running down the aisle to the front
of the train''. Then he spotted the AK-47.

He told reporters: ``My first reaction was to sit down and hide. Then I heard
one guy, an American say 'go get him'. Then I heard another American say 'don't
you do that buddy' or something like that.

``Then I decided that perhaps this was the only chance for us to act as a team
and try to take over.''

Earlier Mr Norman had said: ``We ended up by tying him up, then during the
process the guy actually pulled out a cutter and starting cutting Spencer.

``He cut Spencer behind the neck, he nearly cut his thumb off too. Spencer held
him and we eventually got him under control. He went unconscious, I think.''

Mr Skarlatos freed the handgun from the man and threw it away. He then grabbed
the AK-47 which was at his feet and started ``muzzle-thumping him in the head
with it''.

He told Sky News: ``Everybody just started beating on the guy while Spencer held
the choke hold, until he went unconscious at that point. People started to
restrain him.''

Mr Skarlatos picked up the AK-47 and checked the other carriages in case there
was another gunman.

He returned to carriage 12, where it all started, cleared the weapons and put
them in a pile.

He told Sky News: ``I noticed when I removed the round in the chamber of the AK
that the primer had been struck, which means he pulled the trigger on the AK.

``The primer was just faulty, so the gun did not go off, luckily, and he did not
know how to fix it, which was also very lucky.

``When I cleared the handgun I also noticed that there was no magazine in it -
so he had either dropped it accidentally or did not load it properly. He was
only able to get what appeared to be one shot off with the handgun.''

Mr Norman and the two uninjured Americans were awarded a bravery medal from the
local mayor. The White House claimed their actions had helped prevent ``a far
worse tragedy'' while a No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister praised ``the
extraordinary courage'' of the passengers.

Among the 554 people on board was French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, the star of
Betty Blue and Nikita, who was hit by breaking glass as the alarm was sounded.

In an interview with Paris Match magazine Mr Anglade said train staff entered a
private cabin and locked it when they heard gunshots, leaving the passengers
alone.

He said: ``I really could see us all dying because we were all prisoners in that
train, it would have been impossible to escape from that nightmare.''

An unnamed French official close to the investigation said El-Khazzani was
identified through his fingerprints and that the French had spotted him in
Berlin on May 10 as he headed to Turkey. They informed their Spanish colleagues,
according to an AP report.

The Spaniards responded on May 21 saying he no longer lived in Spain but in
Belgium, according to the French official.

France has been on edge since the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine and a
Jewish supermarket in Paris in January, which left 17 people dead.

Mr Stone gave a quick wave as he walked out of a hospital in Lille this evening.

He was treated for a hand injury. His left arm was bandaged and in a sling and
bruises could be seen on his face.

Mr Stone then got into a black sedan with diplomatic licence plates.

A French official close to the investigation said police have positively
identified the train gunman as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub El-Khazzani who was
identified through his fingerprints, according to an AP report.

The official said the French spotted El-Khazzani in Berlin on May 10, heading to
Turkey, and informed their Spanish colleagues.

The Spaniards responded on May 21 that he no longer lived in Spain but in
Belgium, according to the French official.

Earlier Mr Norman said that Mr Skarlatos had jumped up to help Mr Spencer who
was followed immediately by Mr Sadler.

Mr Norman was the next person on the scene to help tackle the gunman.

He said: ``We ended up by tying him up, then during the process the guy actually
pulled out a cutter and starting cutting Spencer.

``He cut Spencer behind the neck, he nearly cut his thumb off too. Spencer held
him and we eventually got him under control. He went unconscious, I think.''

French authorities said three people were injured, two of them seriously - one
with a gunshot wound, the other a knife wound.

Mr Stone was said to be ``in good spirits'' and ``doing great'' as he recovers
in hospital.

Mr Skarlatos said: ``Spencer ran a good 10 metres to get to the guy and we
didn't know that his gun wasn't working or anything like that.

``Spencer just ran anyway and if anybody would have gotten shot it would have
been Spencer for sure and we are very lucky that nobody got killed, especially
Spencer.''

Mr Sadler added: ``I'm just a college student, it's my last year in college, I
came to see my friends on my first trip in Europe and we stopped a terrorist,
it's kind of crazy.''

Mr Norman and the two uninjured Americans were awarded a bravery medal from the
local mayor.

The White House also praised their actions as having helped prevent ``a far
worse tragedy'' while a No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister praised ``the
extraordinary courage of the passengers who intervened and helped disarm the
gunman''.

Mr Stone was the first to challenge the gunman and grabbed him by the neck.

Mr Skarlatos told Sky News: ``I grabbed the handgun, got the handgun away from
the guy and threw it. Then I grabbed the AK which was at his feet and started
muzzle-thumping him in the head with it.

``Everybody just started beating on the guy while Spencer held the choke hold,
until he went unconscious at that point. People started to restrain him.''

Mr Skarlatos picked up the AK-47 and checked the other carriages in case there
was another gunman.

Mr Skarlatos returned to carriage 12, where it all started, cleared the weapons
and put them in a pile.

He told Sky News: ``I noticed when I removed the round in the chamber of the AK
that the primer had been struck, which means he pulled the trigger on the AK.

``The primer was just faulty, so the gun did not go off, luckily, and he did not
know how to fix it, which was also very lucky.

``When I cleared the handgun I also noticed that there was no magazine in it -
so he had either dropped it accidentally or did not load it properly. He was
only able to get what appeared to be one shot off with the handgun.''

Mr Skarlatos had returned from a deployment in Afghanistan in July with the
National Guard, his stepmother Karen Skarlatos said.

She described the US passengers who helped as ``big, strong, brave guys and they
love their country and they are both in the military and they are prepared, and
so it doesn't surprise us that they were capable of doing this.''

French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said the suspect's identity had yet
to be confirmed, but it was believed that he had radical Islamist beliefs. A
26-year-old Moroccan man was arrested and anti-terror police are leading the
investigation.

French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade, the star of Betty Blue and Nikita, was among
the passengers who was lightly wounded breaking glass to sound the alarm.

In an interview with Paris Match magazine Mr Anglade said train staff entered a
private cabin and locked it when they heard gunshots, leaving the passengers
alone.

He said: ``I really could see us all dying because we were all prisoners in that
train, it would have been impossible to escape from that nightmare.''

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 23, 2015 Sunday 6:40 AM GMT

The West must never compromise with evil;
Telegraph View: The attempted terrorist attack on a train in France tells us so
much - about the courage of America's soldiers, the blessed ineptitude of some
of our enemies and the need to prepare for a long, ugly fight

BYLINE: By Telegraph View

LENGTH: 597 words


They were in the right place at the right time. On Friday night, three
Americans, including two off-duty servicemen, overpowered a Moroccan gunman on a
train in France . In a few minutes of confusion and terror, the assailant opened
fire, his gun appeared to jam and the Americans leapt on him. A British man,
Chris Norman, helped to tie him up before police arrived.

The incident was a tribute to the soldiers' military training, their remarkable
courage and that of the ordinary citizens around them. Bernard Cazeneuve, the
French interior minister, praised their "sangfroid". But no one should discount
the contribution of sheer luck. The passengers were lucky that the attacker
failed in his murderous efforts, and they were lucky that there were
professionals aboard who reacted selflessly . Things could have been very
different, and the West cannot rely entirely on luck.

Was this foiled attack coordinated by a wider Islamist network? With terrorism,
it can be difficult to tell, since lone wolf attacks are sometimes claimed
afterwards by terrorist groups. Some sources say this attacker had spent time in
Syria. Certainly there is a wider context here. A few days ago, Abdellah
Noumane, a Belgian jihadist in Syria, warned that European citizens are a target
: "We no longer care about all the discussions regarding innocent victims. All
infidels will be killed."

Of course, it is only two months since 38 people were murdered in Sousse,
Tunisia, by another assassin with a gun. Assaults such as these show that we are
still living in the long shadow of the 9/11 attacks on America.

Are democratic societies ready to meet this threat? In material terms, it
demands well-financed intelligence services that have the necessary powers to
monitor and imprison those who wish us harm. There have been far too many
instances when it has emerged that terrorists were once watched by security
assets, only for the surveillance to be dropped sometime before an attack.
Happily, the Government has said that it will protect the stretched intelligence
budget from cuts. Experience suggests that investing in counterterrorism is
wise. Earlier this year, Belgian police raided a terrorist cell and claimed to
have prevented another attack on the scale of Charlie Hebdo .

Crucial to that raid was the use of telephone call interception. As the enemy's
means of communication grows and becomes more sophisticated, so the law needs to
keep pace. The collection of bulk online data is vital, which is why the British
Government has instructed online firms that they must share with MI5 any
encrypted data related to terror suspects . There also ought to be more
attention paid to the illegal flow of weaponry across Europe. The Moroccan
attacker appeared to be armed to the teeth.

But even as European states erect a modern anti-terror apparatus, there is still
a political constituency that fails to see the bigger picture. In this country,
Labour remains imprisoned in what now feels like an ancient debate about the
Iraq War. The Chilcot Inquiry drags on, offering no resolution. The legacy of Ed
Miliband's cynical decision to oppose military action in Syria is still felt.
And now the hard Left of the party has a champion in Jeremy Corbyn, who has
called for political compromise with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant .

The events on that train in France make a mockery of those who still deny the
realities of this ideological battle. There is no compromise to be found with a
death cult. It must be met with an unshakeable will and confidence in the
superiority of our values.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

Editorial says terrorist attacks part of war on Turkey

LENGTH: 1931 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Yeni Safak website on 21 August

[Editorial by Ibrahim Karagul: "Aydin Dogan, Terror and National Security"]

We have witnessed many times before that states used terror as an element of
blackmail against other countries.

We witnessed in the Middle East; organizations networked and established within,
financed, trained, with their objectives specified, used against almost every
country, regional destabilizing plans made through these organizations,
countries brought down to their hands and knees through these organizations,
ethnic conflicts and civil wars erupted through these organizations, with
hundreds and thousands of people losing their lives and countries becoming
divided.

We saw that for 20 years, contrary to the worldwide counterterrorism discourse,
terror was kept alive by global power centres as a tool for blackmail and
exploited by countries where the democracy and freedom discourse was
exaggerated. I can quickly give the names of many organizations run by
governments.

From a 'gang' within the state to ganging up against the state

We also saw that governments used organizations in their internal power battles,
allowed ganging up within the state, and as a result, numerous dirty laundries
were revealed throughout the years. Turkey's political history is filled with
many unbelievable examples in this area. There is no need to list these one by
one. Everybody who has some knowledge of this country's internal politics, its
internal power conflicts will know this.

Yet, this time we are faced with a new situation.

This time, there are those in Turkey who need to side with freedoms against
those who threaten freedoms and public order, those who need to have
responsibility towards their country and people are cooperating with terror,
violence and organizations. Rather than forming a gang within the state, there
is a kind of ganging up against the state, the people, and the country. There is
a war against Turkey by those who are unable to form the government they want,
unable to design politics as they desire. There are those who are trying to
completely dismiss the Justice and Development Party (AK Party) and return to
the "old Turkey," and those who want to sacrifice areas of democracy and freedom
to undemocratic power projects.

This is a war against both the nation and state

Yes, this is a state of war. We are witnessing a war in such a form for the
first time. Those who are trying in cooperation to surround Turkey from the
outside to confine it are those who have taken the largest share from this
country's wealth. Becoming even richer is not their sole issue; they want to
take over the entire nation and its people.

Hence, they turned the war they waged against the AK Party into a war against
the entire country. Nothing matters, the nation can be destroyed, the country
can be divided and turn into a bloodbath, as long as they take possession;
receiving the grievous news of tens of more martyrs on a daily basis means
nothing to them.

Those who used to greet the prime minister in their PJs in the past are
currently redesigning the country's politics. Those who once used to give orders
to ministers are now in cooperation with terrorist organizations. Those who once
ousted governments and formed new ones are trying to regain this power, which
they have been lacking for the last 13 years. Those who made the Feb. 28 coup
happen are now attempting another coup.

They even tried to hang the prime minister

They tried everything. They implemented all projects. They attempted all options
including coups, civil insurgencies, street terror, invasion of the prime
ministry, and execution of the country's leaders. They collaborated with all
anti-Turkey circles. They were the ones who managed the Gezi riot. Had they
succeeded, they were going to handcuff the prime minister and present to the
world a photograph of him in that state. They cooperated with the Dec. 17 coup
attempt. If they had succeeded, they were going to hang the prime minister,
bring a puppet Sisi to the head of the country and set up execution courts.
Turkey was going to turn into either Ukraine or Egypt. There would be a return
to the past in all areas which success has been achieved in the last 13 years,
economic welfare would turn into their own exclusive wealth only, regional
strengthening would once again turn into a prison for Anatolia and political
parties and ruling governments would become their puppets. They were going to
appoint a prime minister or change the cabinet whenever they desired. They were
even going to have the power to dismiss ministers for a tender.

Stop Turkey from making challenges!

They couldn't achieve any of these. They tried every disgusting trick in the
book, double-dealing and a dirty scenario. The only thing their masters required
of them was to prevent Turkey from becoming stronger, developing and making
challenges. Hence, they would be shaping their own rule behind this great plan.
This was a political tender given to them. They used all dirty discourses for
their own power and ambitions; they poisoned the public opinion and carried out
marvellous media campaigns. They used their economic wealth and media power in
this area. What they did was actually a suicide attack. These circles have been
attempting suicide attacks on Turkey for a decade now. They are trying to remove
the national resistance of the country and eliminate those keeping this
resistance alive. They are tainting the public support towards this resistance
through dirty, disgusting discourses.

There is nothing left that they haven't yet tried. All their efforts went to
waste. All coup attempts, assassination plans and plans to push thousands to
court came to nothing. The country's resistance, enthusiasm and pursuit
prevailed. The political mind managed to outdo them. But they didn't stop; they
didn't give up and are continuing.

Coalition and blackmailing with terrorism

They started a new plan three months ahead of the July 7 elections. The previous
ones were to eliminate the AK Party. This time they started by implementing a
very well planned scenario to distance the party from power and confuse the
overwhelming mass supporting it. The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and
Demirtas project was the first step of this scenario. Then a rule that would
exclude the AK Party was going to be formed. This would be followed by the
ousting of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

They succeeded; the AK Party could not achieve the rate that would enable it to
become a single-party power. But the majority that would exclude it didn't
happen either. They pushed for an AK Party-Republican People's Party (CHP)
coalition with all their might. This way they would be able to take the AK Party
hostage, making it impossible for the party to defend Erdogan. They were going
to establish a kind of tutelage through the party.

Terror attacks were launched simultaneously with the pressure to form a
coalition. That is where they gave the signal. Those who reactivated Kurdish
nationalism prior to the elections, preparing an internal politics scenario in
Turkey, used weapons and terror as blackmail during the coalition period. This
was the "We will destroy if there is no coalition" blackmail.

Terror organizations, the armed wing of 'internal invaders'

That didn't work either. So they took to an all-out attack. The attacks were no
longer terror in the strict sense. The blackmail through terror had turned on
Turkey as a whole. No power formula should have been formed. Turkey should not
even be able to go to elections. Extraordinary circumstances should materialize
with extraordinary options coming into play.

PKK attacks, Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) attacks as
well as all other terror organizations, all took action. All organizations
gathered under a single roof. It was now a case of retaliating against the
entire country. They no longer cared whether Turkey became divided, destroyed or
loses a region.

We called those directing these attacks, "internal invaders." Their armed wings
now are the terrorist organizations. These circles have become armed and waged
war against Turkey through terrorist organizations. They have activated the
latest project of their Turkey-related plan through terror.

This 'new threat' should be taken under control right away

This is a serious, very dangerous and new situation. Turkey is faced with a new
threat. Terror is no longer managed from camps in mountains or cells in cities;
it is managed from the headquarters of those carrying out this war. Today, the
PKK and other armed organizations are all controlled by those at these
headquarters. While they continue to give listed orders to certain political
parties for political positions, they also give orders to terror organizations
to launch attacks.

I see this situation as a "serious national security problem." Turkey is
required to re-evaluate the internal threat and define it. This is not an AK
Party or Erdogan issue; it is a Turkey issue. The threat should be defined
without taking the country hostage, without paralysing it and the necessary
stance should be taken. Everybody who loves this country, who are loyal to this
nation should be vigilant and take a stance in support of the country and the
people. Those circles that create the source of the threat should quickly be
taken under control.

Beware of assassination attempts

Turkey needs to resist against the "internal invasion," because this is going to
bring Turkey to a point of division. Unless those, who resort to doing anything
evil, are desperate and acting upon revenge by targeting the entire country and
people, are not stopped immediately, the country will face a very serious
"division of power." The division of power will eliminate the state mind and can
lead to breaking up the country.

The assassination attempt yesterday aimed at Star Media Chairman Murat Sancak is
likely a part of this scenario. Frankly, similar situations may continue on
larger scales. In this sense, part of politics, the business world and media in
Turkey are under threat. I have serious concerns that similar attacks and even
more different attack attempts are going to be on the rise.

Those who observe carefully the Aydin Dogan-owned media outlets will see not
only the "common language with terror," but also see what kind of disaster
scenario we are up against. Publications protecting members of terror
organizations against martyrs are part of this battle. The publications of this
group are openly supporting, encouraging and urging terrorism.

This is a coup attempt

This group's editorial policy is the greatest marketing of the new war against
Turkey. This blindness caused by enmity towards Erdogan has made them a party to
a front openly against the country. This is a state of drifting. It is a very
dangerous state. If they succeed, so be it; if not, they have no chance of
getting away from the terror supporter. In fact, the "enemy of Turkey" label is
stuck on them.

Aydin Dogan filed a TL 100,000 ($34,100) law suit for damages for writing these.
He might file another one after this article. But this is not a matter of
personal settlement. It would be better for him to question his current position
rather than filing for a lawsuit.

In my opinion, Aydin Dogan is a "national security" matter and his current
position is a "coup attempt." It's not Aydin Dogan alone, but since he is acting
like a suicide attempt, the argument is carried out over him.

Source: Yeni Safak website, Istanbul, in English 0000 gmt 21 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      August 24, 2015 Monday 10:18 AM GMT

Train terror attack hero Chris Norman receives top French bravery honour

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 633 words


A British grandfather who helped subdue a gunman armed with an AK-47 on a train
from Amsterdam to Paris has been presented with France's top honour for bravery.

IT expert Chris Norman received the Legion d'Honneur from French president
Francois Hollande alongside three Americans who fought suspected Morrocan
jihadist Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, on Friday.

Mr Hollande said the men showed "that faced with terror, we have the power to
resist", adding, "you also gave a lesson in courage, in will, and thus in hope".

Mr Norman smiled as Mr Hollande pinned the honour to his chest, before kissing
the president on both cheeks.

US Airman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, and Sacramento State
University student Anthony Sadler, who stopped the gunman as he moved through
the train with an assault rifle strapped to his chest, were also made
chevaliers, or knights, of the Legion during the ceremony.

Mr Hollande said the two Americans who first tackled the gunman were soldiers,
"but on Friday you were simply passengers. You behaved as soldiers but also as
responsible men."

He told the four men the entire world admired their courage and "spirit of
solidarity", adding they "must be an example for all, and a source of
inspiration".

The alleged gunman, identified as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub El-Khazzani, is
being questioned by French counter-terrorism police outside Paris.

At a press conference at the US Embassy in Paris on Sunday, Mr Stone said he
just wanted to "survive and for my friends and everyone else on the train to
make it".

He praised French medical staff and said an unknown French man, who first came
across the gunman near a toilet, on the 554-passenger train "started the
struggle at first, I think he deserves a lot of credit".

Mr Stone said: "I turned around and he (the gunman) appeared to have what looked
like a AK-47.

"It looked like it was jammed or wasn't working and he was trying to discharge
the weapon. Alek hit me on the shoulder and said, 'let's go'.

"We ran down, tackled him and hit the ground. Alek tackled him and grabbed the
gun out of his hand while I put him in a chokehold. It seemed like he kept on
pulling more weapons - left and right.

"He pulled out a handgun. Alek took that. He took out a box cutter and was
jabbing at me with that. We let go and all three of us started punching him
while he was in the middle of us.

"I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while Alek was hitting
him in the head with the pistol or rifle."

Mr Norman said he helped the three Americans overpower the gunman because he
thought he was "probably going to die anyway".

Mr Skarlatos also thanked Mr Norman for helping to tie the gunman up after he
had been overpowered.

French police were reportedly warned more than a year ago about El-Khazzani's
radical views.

Spanish law enforcement told their French counterparts in March 2014 that
El-Khazzani had a "relationship with radical Islam", the Spanish El Pais
newspaper reported.

It also claimed the 26-year-old Moroccan, believed to have visited Syria last
year, had been included on a European anti-extremism police database as far back
as 2012.

Officials told the Associated Press that El-Khazzani was on the radar of
authorities in France, Belgium and Spain.

The Legion d'Honneur was created under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802, and roughly
one million people have received it over the years.

Speaking outside the ceremony, Mr Norman said he was "amazed" by the honour, and
did not know whether he deserved it.

He told the BBC: "I'm just amazed and I really appreciate the honour that I have
been given and being given this recognition for what we did, but I really do not
know whether I deserve it.

"I think what I would like to do is to try to really do honour to what has been
given to me."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      August 24, 2015 Monday 06:28 AM GMT

Train terror attack hero Chris Norman to get bravery honour

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


A British grandfather who helped subdue a gunman armed with an AK-47 on a train
from Amsterdam to Paris is to be presented with France's top honour for bravery.

IT expert Chris Norman will receive the Legion d'Honneur from French president
Francois Hollande today alongside three Americans who fought suspected Morroccan
jihadist Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, on Friday.

Mr Norman, US Air Force serviceman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek
Skarlatos and Sacramento State University student Anthony Sadler, will
reportedly be made chevaliers, or knights, of the Legion alongside a French
citizen who first came across the gunman near a toilet on board.

(left to right) Anthony Sadler, Alek Skarlatos and Chris Norman. Pic: PA

At a press conference at the US Embassy in Paris on Sunday Mr Stone said he just
wanted to "survive and for my friends and everyone else on the train to make
it".

He praised French medical staff and said that the unknown French man on the
554-passenger train "started the struggle at first, I think he deserves a lot of
credit".

Mr Stone said: "I turned around and he (the gunman) appeared to have what looked
like a AK-47.

"It looked like it was jammed or wasn't working and he was trying to discharge
the weapon. Alek hit me on the shoulder and said 'let's go'.

"We ran down, tackled him and hit the ground. Alek tackled him and grabbed the
gun out of his hand while I put him in a chokehold. It seemed like he kept on
pulling more weapons - left and right.

"He pulled out a handgun. Alek took that. He took out a box cutter and was
jabbing at me with that. We let go and all three of us started punching him
while he was in the middle of us.

"I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while Alek was hitting
him in the head with the pistol or rifle."

Mr Norman said he helped the three Americans overpower the gunman because he
thought he was "probably going to die anyway".

Mr Skarlatos also thanked Mr Norman for helping to tie the gunman up after he
had been overpowered.

French police were reportedly warned more than a year ago about El-Khazzani's
radical views.

Spanish law enforcement told their French counterparts in March 2014 that
El-Khazzani had a "relationship with radical Islam", the Spanish El Pais
newspaper reported.

It also claimed the 26-year-old Moroccan, believed to have visited Syria last
year, had been included on a European anti-extremism police database as far back
as 2012.

Officials told the Associated Press that El-Khazzani was on the radar of
authorities in France, Belgium and Spain.

The Legion d'Honneur was created under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802, and roughly
one million people have received it over the years.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 24, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Doing nothing in face of terrorism is not an option, says attack hero

BYLINE: David Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 418 words


ONE of the American men who overpowered a gunman aboard a highspeed train has
warned people not to "stand by" in the face of terror attacks.

Anthony Sadler, a student, said "sitting back" was not an option, as the
identity of the first man to wrestle a weapon from the gunman was revealed for
the first time.

The family of Mark Moogalian, an American academic, disclosed his role in
tackling Ayoub El-Khazzani aboard the Amsterdam-Paris train on Friday.

Mr Moogalian stepped in to help a 28-year-old French banker, known only as
Damian A, and disarmed the assailant of an AK-47 assault rifle. He ran away with
the gun, only to be shot in the neck with a concealed sidearm.

Khazzani then moved into the next train carriage where Mr Sadler and three other
passengers tackled the gunman and beat him unconscious.

"I was the third one to get up and I want the lesson to be learnt that in times
of crisis, to do something," said Mr Sadler. "Hiding or sitting back is not
going to help you. Don't just stand by and watch."

His friend Spencer Stone, a US airman, suffered a partially severed thumb as he
struggled with the attacker, who was also armed with a utility knife, or box
cutter. He said it seemed the terrorist "was ready to fight to the end", but
added: "So were we."

Mr Stone and Mr Sadler, both 23, spoke about their role in the incident for the
first time at a news conference yesterday at the US ambassador's residence in
Paris, along with National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, 22.

Mr Stone said he was asleep, but awoke to see the man holding an assault rifle
and that it "looked like it was jammed and it wasn't working".

He said one of his friends "just hit me on the shoulder and said: 'Let's go'."

"We tackled him and hit the ground.

I put him in a chokehold," said Mr Stone. "He took out a box cutter. It seemed
he was pulling weapons from left and right. All three of us started punching him
and grabbed him again and put him unconscious while Alek was hitting him. It
feels very unreal, like a dream."

Mr Skarlatos said: "The guy had a lot of ammo - his intentions seemed pretty
clear. In the beginning it was mostly gut instinct, survival. Our training
kicked in after the struggle."

Mr Moogalian, a 51-year-old professor at the Sorbonne originally from Virginia,
acted instinctively to protect his partner Isabella Risacher.

"We are extremely proud of him." Miss Risacher said. "Because he took the bullet
in the back of the neck and it came out from the front it is quite a bad wound.
But he is all right."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: French emergency services transport Mark Moogalian after the shooting
on the Amsterdam to Paris high-speed train on FridayREUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       August 24, 2015 Monday 1:15 PM GMT

Heroic British grandfather who foiled train terror attack handed France's top
honour

LENGTH: 534 words


A HEROIC British grandfather has been honoured by France after he helped
overpower a would-be terrorist gunman.

REUTERS

Chris Norman has been given France's top honour

Chris Norman was today awarded the Legion d'Honneur - the highest honour the
French state can give - along with American Marine Spencer Stone, American
National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos and American student Anthony Sadler

Between them, the quartet overpowered Moroccan-born Ayoub El Khazzani on a train
near the French city of Arras.

They then stripped a handgun, AK47 machine gun and nine magazines of bullets
from the crazed 26-year-old.

After the terrifying incident grandfather-of-two Mr Norman, 62, who lives in
France, said: "My thought was 'I am probably going to die anyway so let's go.

"I would rather die being active and trying to stop him then simply sit in the
corner and be shot."

REUTERS

Chris Norman was awarded the Legion d'Honneur by Francois Hollande Related
articles  Red Arrows warned Shoreham Airshow was TOO DANGEROUS and refused...
'I sped through Shoreham Airshow fireball' Gran relives horror...

Awarding the men their medals this morning, French President Francois Hollande
said: "We are here to honour four men who, thanks to their bravery, managed to
save lives.

"They showed what could be done in terrible circumstances. In the name of
France, I would like to thank you for what you have done.

"The whole world admires your bravery. It should be an example to all of us and
inspire us. You put your lives at risk in order to defend freedom."

Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel and the US Ambassador to France, Jane
Hartley, also attended.

Khazzani, meanwhile, told detectives he was a would-be robber, not a terrorist.

He said he had stumbled across the weapons in a park in Belgium and decided to
use it to take money and jewellery of the passengers travelling on the train
from Brussels to Paris.

Khazzani's lawyer, Sophie David, said: "He is dumbfounded that his act is being
linked to terrorism.

She confirmed he was still a terror suspect who, under French law, can be held
until Tuesday evening before being charged or released.

Intelligence services across Europe have suggested that the Moroccan national
was an Islamist extremist.

REUTERS

Chris Norman, Anthony Sadler, Francois Hollande, Spencer Stone and Alek
Skarlatos

But Mr Skarlatos, said: "He clearly had no firearms training whatsoever.

"If he knew what he was doing or even got lucky and did the right thing, he
would have been able to operate through all eight of the ammunition magazines
and we probably wouldn't be here today along with a lot of other people."

Mr Stone, who serves in the US Air Force, reached Khazzani first on the train
and was slashed in the neck and thumb with the box-cutter

He yesterday thanked French doctors for reattaching his thumb, while the US
serviceman was praised for helping to stop the bleeding of a French-American
passenger who was shot.

Related articles Now Calais Mayor threatens to 'OPEN the border' unless Cameron
sits down for crisis talks Hero Briton in French train attack: 'I'd rather die
trying than sit and be shot' 'In these times of terror we must do something'
French train heroes' advice for the world

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

Francois Hollande presents Legion d'honneur to pasengers who foiled train
terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS AGENDA

LENGTH: 176 words


French President Francois Hollande presents the Legion d'honneur to three
Americans and a Briton who foiled a suspected terror attack on a high-speed
train in France on Friday. Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos, Anthony Sadler and
Briton Chris Norman restrained an armed suspected Islamist gunman on a Thalys
train service travelling from Amsterdam to Paris near the northern French city
of Arras. Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel and the U.S. Ambassador Jane
Hartley are expected to attend the ceremony, along with the head of the French
rail firm, SNCF. U.S. President Barack Obama has commended the men for their
'extraordinary bravery'.
 French police are questioning the suspect, Moroccan national Ayoub El-Khazzani,
25, who reportedly has links to a 'radical Islamist movement' and is said to be
known to intelligence officials. Under French law authorities have until Tuesday
evening to question the suspect. Security measures aboard Thalys trains have
been stepped up

Event Start Date: 2015-08-24

Event End Date: 2015-08-24

Event URL: http://www.elysee.fr/

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       August 24, 2015 Monday 4:34 PM GMT

Bangkok bombing: Police admit fading hopes of finding man suspected of horrific
terror attack;
Faulty security cameras and a lack of equipment are hampering the investigation
while an explosive device found at a building site on Monday proved a false
alarm

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words


Thai police said on Monday the trail had gone cold in the hunt for a bomber a
week after 20 people were killed in the country's worst bomb attack, and they
were unsure if the main suspect was still in Thailand.

Faulty security cameras and a lack of equipment were hampering the investigation
while an explosive device found at a building site on Monday proved a false
alarm, not connected with the August 17 attack on Bangkok's most famous shrine.

The main evidence police have for the blast at the Erawan Shrine to a Hindu
deity popular with Asian tourists, is security camera footage.

Some of it shows the suspected bomber leaving a backpack and walking away.

The young man with a yellow shirt and dark hair was also caught on closed
circuit television camera leaving the scene on the back of a motorcycle taxi.

But after that, there was very little, police said.

"In terms of the CCTV cameras, some don't capture images properly and some were
damaged which is a waste of time for police piecing together where the suspect
went," national police chief Somyot Poompanmuang told reporters.

"You want the truth? We don't know if the suspect is still in Thailand but I
have to assume he still is because we've got no information that he left."

Somyot said on Sunday a lack of modern equipment was hampering the investigation
and he was seeking foreign help.

The government said the attack was aimed at undermining the economy by hurting
the tourism industry as growth flags in other sectors.

Half the 14 foreigners killed were from mainland China or Hong Kong, but the
Thailand-China Tourism Association, which oversees more than 200 operators
bringing Chinese visitors, said there was little sign Chinese holidaymakers had
been put off.

China is Thailand's biggest source of tourists.

"There have been maybe one or two cancellations here and there. Nothing major,"
association president Ronnarong Cheewinsiriamnuai told Reuters.

Chinese operators had not cancelled flights, Ronnarong said, adding he had seen
a dip of about 2 percent in Chinese visitors.

The military government wants stable growth as it steers the country towards an
election next year under a new constitution critics say will not end a decade of
turbulent politics.

Earlier, police said they had defused a bomb at a construction site but later
said it was a small, old explosive not believed connected to the shrine blast
and a second explosion at a pier on Bangkok's river the next day that caused no
casualties.

A Ministry of Information spokesman said six provincial government websites had
been hacked by a group called the 'Fallaga Team', who said they were Muslims
from Tunisia, but said the hackers did not get access to government data.

Police said the hacking was not believed to be related to the bomb attack.

CCTV reveals 'Bangkok bomber' taking off backpack ahead of Thailand blast

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 24, 2015 Monday 10:08 AM GMT

ISIS uses Call Of Duty style remote-controlled cars to bomb enemies in
horrifying terror attacks;
The terror group is reportedly importing the miniature monster truck-style
vehicles from Turkey and sending them to the frontline, loaded with explosives

BYLINE: By Jon Livesey

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 193 words


ISIS use remote control cars

ISIS terrorists are launching bomb attacks on their enemies using Call Of
Duty-inspired remote-controlled toy cars.

According to reports, Kurdish soldiers fighting the terror group in Syria and
Iraq came across one of the cars after it failed to detonate.

However, several others have exploded, killing and injuring enemy forces.

The small vehicles are reportedly being imported by ISIS from Turkey.

Jihadists load the monster truck-style vehicles with explosives and then, using
remote controls, send them to the frontline to face their enemies.

The scheme has chilling echoes of the Call Of Duty computer game in which
players use remote-controlled cars to kill opponents in a virtual war zone.

It follows reports that ISIS is flying drones over enemy positions to identify
vulnerable areas.

A Brit fighting ISIS in Iraq with the Kurds told the Daily Star: "It is just
another example of ISIS thugs thinking that they are in a video game.

"They sit around dreaming of new ways to kill people."

ISIS video shows men thrown off roof then stoned to death 'for being gay':

ISIS throw gay people from a roof and then they are stoned by spectators

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       August 24, 2015 Monday 4:25 AM BST

TRAIN TERROR ATTACK HERO CHRIS NORMAN TO RECEIVE BRAVERY HONOUR

BYLINE: David Wilcock, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


A British grandfather who helped subdue a gunman armed with an AK-47 on a train
from Amsterdam to Paris is to be presented with France's top honour for bravery.

IT expert Chris Norman will receive the Legion d'Honneur from French president
Francois Hollande today alongside three Americans who fought suspected Moroccan
jihadist Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, on Friday.

Mr Norman, US Air Force serviceman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek
Skarlatos and Sacramento State University student Anthony Sadler, will
reportedly be made chevaliers, or knights, of the Legion alongside a French
citizen who first came across the gunman near a toilet on board.

At a press conference at the US Embassy in Paris on Sunday Mr Stone said he just
wanted to ``survive and for my friends and everyone else on the train to make
it''.

He praised French medical staff and said that the unknown French man on the
554-passenger train ``started the struggle at first, I think he deserves a lot
of credit''.

Mr Stone said: ``I turned around and he (the gunman) appeared to have what
looked like a AK-47.

``It looked like it was jammed or wasn't working and he was trying to discharge
the weapon. Alek hit me on the shoulder and said 'let's go'.

``We ran down, tackled him and hit the ground. Alek tackled him and grabbed the
gun out of his hand while I put him in a chokehold. It seemed like he kept on
pulling more weapons - left and right.

``He pulled out a handgun. Alek took that. He took out a box cutter and was
jabbing at me with that. We let go and all three of us started punching him
while he was in the middle of us.

``I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while Alek was hitting
him in the head with the pistol or rifle.''

Mr Norman said he helped the three Americans overpower the gunman because he
thought he was ``probably going to die anyway''.

Mr Skarlatos also thanked Mr Norman for helping to tie the gunman up after he
had been overpowered.

French police were reportedly warned more than a year ago about El-Khazzani's
radical views.

Spanish law enforcement told their French counterparts in March 2014 that
El-Khazzani had a ``relationship with radical Islam'', the Spanish El Pais
newspaper reported.

It also claimed the 26-year-old Moroccan, believed to have visited Syria last
year, had been included on a European anti-extremism police database as far back
as 2012.

Officials told the Associated Press that El-Khazzani was on the radar of
authorities in France, Belgium and Spain.

The Legion d'Honneur was created under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802, and roughly
one million people have received it over the years.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

Film planned on Copenhagen terror attack

LENGTH: 428  words


Danish Zentropa producer Peter Aalbæk Jensen reported to the police for racism,
when announcing Closed Eyes by Afghan-born director about the Copenhagen terror
attack

Danish producer and head of Zentropa Entertainments, Peter Aalbæk Jensen, has
announced Closed Eyes (Lukkede øjne), a feature film about the Copenhagen terror
attack in Feb 2014, when three people were killed and five policemen wounded.

In an interview Aalbæk Jensen said that "if the project had been proposed by a
group of pig-coloured Danes, he would have refused it," which made the
nationalist Danes' Party report him to the police for violating the legalisation
against racism. "If he is not convicted, it is legal hypocrasy of the worst
kind," declared party leader Daniel Carlsen.

The Copenhagen shootings were carried out by Danish Jihadist Omar Abdel Hamid
El-Hussain, who swore allegiance to Islamic State before he attacked a debate on
Art, Blasphemy and Freedom of Speech at Copenhagen's Krudttønden culture
centre.There he killed Danish director-producer Finn Nørgaard and wounded three
police officers.

He then tried to enter the Jewish synagogue in Krystalgade, where 80 Jews
attended a young girl's bat mitzvah - El-Hussain shot dead Jewish security guard
Dan Uzan and injured another two policemen. Security forces traced him to
Copenhagen's Nørrebro district and involved him in a final shoot-out, where he
was brought down by 38 bullets.

"The events in Copenhagen influenced me a lot, so I decided to find out whether
it would be possible for me to enter Omar's closed and dark world to investigate
the phenomenon in more general terms," said Danish Afghan-born director Manyar
Parwani, whose latest feature was When Heaven Falls (Himlen falder, 2009).

Parwani has been in contact with local experts and has also approached
El-Hussain's own network in his efforts to understand "what was going on in this
young man's head, which social conditions contributed to his radicalisation, so
he would see this horrible deed as an act of heroism." The project has been
supported by the Danish Film Institute.

Aalbæk Jensen has known and worked with the director for several years - "and I
thought it would be interesting to see a film about the attack from a man. who
has access to the same environment as El-Hussain".

"One of the victims was my former trainee (Nørgaard), he was a curious man, so I
am sure he would approve this film. I have no idea which direction it will take
- I will leave that with the artists," Aalbæk Jensen concluded to Denmark's DR.

jornrossing@aol.com (Jorn Rossing Jensen)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen


                            Copyright 2015 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday

Azeri strategic gas pipeline comes under terrorist attack in eastern Turkey

LENGTH: 365 words


Gunmen of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have blown up a segment of the
Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum (BTE) gas pipeline in Turkey, APA news agency reported on
25 August, with reference to Turkey's Anadolu news agency.

This is the second attack on the pipeline carrying gas from Azerbaijan's Sah
Daniz platform to Turkey via Georgia.

The attack occurred in Sarikamis settlement of Turkey's eastern Kars Province
and was carried out by over 20 PKK militants, APA quoted the provincial
governor, Gunay Ozdemir, as saying.

"The blast occurred as a result of a terrorist attack. It is impossible to reach
the area due to strong blaze. Measures are being taken to put out the fire," the
governor said.

Gas flow through the pipeline has been stopped, he added.

However, BP company that operates Sah Daniz platform has said that so far there
are no changes to the production schedule of the Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum pipeline,
Baku-based Caspian Barrel news agency reported on 25 August. This is because
production increases gradually and it will take around three to four days to
fill the Turkish part of the pipeline, the report said.

The explosion took place a day after the flow through the gas pipeline was
restored following the completion of repair work at Sah Daniz field, Caspian
Barrel said. Gas flow through the pipeline was halted on 2 August due to
maintenance work at Sah Daniz platform and was resumed on 23 August.

The website reminded that another explosion hit the pipeline in the same area on
4 August.

Meanwhile, the head of the press service of the State Oil Company of the
Azerbaijani Republic (SOCAR), Nizamaddin Quliyev, has said that Turkey's gas
distributing company BOTAS is holding a meeting to discuss the incident. The
official also said that the repair work on the pipeline may take several days.

The Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum pipeline, also known as the South Caucasus Pipeline,
carries gas from the Azerbaijani sector of the Caspian Sea to Turkey via
Georgia. The pipeline runs parallel to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline that
transports Azerbaijani oil to European markets.

Sources: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 0816 gmt 25 Aug 15; Caspian Barrel,
Baku, in English  0729 gmt 25 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      August 25, 2015 Tuesday 5:13 PM GMT

France train attack: Terror probe launched after suspect watched radical video

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 300 words


A terror investigation has been launched after French authorities said the
suspected attacker in a thwarted shooting on a train in France watched a radical
Islamic video minutes before the violence.

Prosecutor Francois Molins said the decision to open an investigation was based
on the actions of 26-year-old Moroccan suspect Ayoub El-Khazzani on the train on
Friday night and information from other European authorities about his travels
and apparent links to radical Islam.

Mr Molins said El-Khazzani notably watched the online video on his phone minutes
before he walked through the Amsterdam-to-Paris train carrying an assault rifle
and other weapons.

Authorities say they found the suspect's phone in a bag left in the train.
El-Khazzani boarded the train on Friday at a Brussels station.

The gunman was tackled and tied up by a group of three American friends and a
British businessman. Another man who tried to stop him - a French-American named
Mark Moogalian - is in hospital with a gunshot wound.

Now that the formal investigation is opened, investigating magistrates are
expected to file numerous charges against El-Khazzani, including an attempted
terrorism-related attack.

El-Khazzani was found to have an AKM assault rifle with 270 rounds of
ammunition, a 9mm handgun, a box-cutter and a bottle of gasoline, the prosecutor
said.

El-Khazzani had travelled through several European countries and had been
repeatedly incarcerated in Spain, Mr Molins said. He may have tried to go to
Syria.

In questioning, El-Khazzani initially said he had found a bag of weapons the
night before in a Brussels park and planned to use them to rob passengers,
according to Mr Molins.

But his explanation grew less and less lucid, the prosecutor said, and the
suspect eventually stopped speaking to investigators at all.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MUM AND 5 KIDS FLEE SECOND ARSON ATTACK;
Family forced from home tell of terror after car is torched

BYLINE: CILLIAN O'BRIEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 452 words


A TERRIFIED mum of five and her kids were forced to flee their home in the
middle of the night after a second arson attack in two years.

The family car was set ablaze outside their house at St Laurence's Park in
Drogheda, Co Louth, in the early hours of last Tuesday.

And another car owned by them was torched in 2013.

Gloria Fazaz, 42, originally from Nigeria, has lived in Ireland for 13 years and
has been at her Drogheda address for two years.

She woke at about 3am in the morning of the most recent attack.

Gloria said: "It was Monday at about midnight when I had said my prayers and
fallen asleep.

"I woke up suddenly at about 3 o'clock. "I noticed a yellow light out through
the curtains. I checked out and saw my car on fire, screamed and called the
children and alerted the fire brigade.

"We came out through the back door.

The fire at the front was so much."

The car, a five-seater Citroen, was parked close to the downstairs sitting room
window and Gloria feared it would explode and set the house on fire.

A nearby resident had called the fire brigade but couldn't get near the front
door because of the heat from the blaze.

The neighbours also gave Gloria's children blankets and took them into their
homes for shelter.

Gloria believes God saved her and her children, Habib, 19, Bukky, 17Olamide, 16,
Lekan, 12, and 10-year-old Deji.

She added: "The children were frightened. It was so bad my second oldest boy was
crying."

Nobody has been caught for the 2013 attack and she doesn't know who was
responsible for this latest episode either.

Gloria and family were out of the house at the time of the first attack but
returned in the early hours from a prayer vigil to discover their car had been
taken and burnt out. She said: "The gardai didn't give me any explanation.
They're just trying to check with people around the area."

And she was slow to blame racism for the attack.

Gloria said: "I don't really know why it has happened to us twice. It's just the
wickedness of men. Some people can be very mean.

"It's maybe because my house is easy to access. My neighbour told me someone
vandalised ESB property nearby.

"There's a problem in the community that needs an urgent answer."

Garda Insp Brendan Cadden confirmed detectives were trying to establish a motive
for the attack and said it was too early to say whether it was racially
motivated.

He added the case was being taken very seriously because of the proximity of the
burning car to the house and that there was a family sleeping in the house at
the time.

He appealed for anyone with information to contact Drogheda Garda station on 041
9874 200.

news@irishmirror.ie

The children were so frightened, my second eldest boy was crying GLORIA FAZAZ
drogheda yesterday

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAFE & SOUND Gloria and her children at home yesterdayblaze ordeal
Gloria Fazaz outside her boarded home in Drogheda yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday

Abuja: honouring victims of 2011 terrorist attack, Ban sees Nigeria as key
partner in achieving UN goals

LENGTH: 855 words


Commemorating the 4th anniversary of the "vicious terrorist attack" that killed
23 United Nations employees in Abuja, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today also
paid tribute to the "extraordinary fortitude" and determination of the
survivors, many of whom suffered terrible injury and trauma.



"Our fallen colleagues and partners will be remembered this morning with moments
of silence in many places. But nowhere are the memories of these colleagues more
immediate, more vivid and more compelling than here in Abuja. We will remember
them forever as truly the best of humanity," Mr. Ban stated in his remarks
during a wreath-laying ceremony.

The Secretary-General also met with the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari,
whose peaceful election sent a "strong global message of respect for democracy
and the rule of law" throughout the country and the continent.

Both men, he told the press, discussed a full range of issues covering
development, human rights and peace and security, including the troubling levels
of violence and terror perpetrated by Boko Haram in north-eastern Nigeria and in
the sub-region, as "terrorism knows no bounds or boundaries."

This week will witness another grim anniversary, noted the UN chief, noting that
it has been 500s day since the kidnapping of the Chibok school girls. "I once
again call in the strongest possible terms on those responsible to
unconditionally release these girls and the many other abducted children."

Women and girls are not caught simply in the crossfire - they are being
"deliberately" targeted through brutal physical and sexual assault, child and
forced marriages, sexual slavery and abduction on a massive scale, he
emphasized.

"I am appealing as UN Secretary-General and personally as a father and
grandfather. Think about your own daughters. How would you feel if your own
daughters and sisters were abducted by others?" Asking all those who might have
information about those innocent abducted girls to help them, he urged
communities to work hard to reintegrate all abductees and their families.

Against that backdrop, "more than ever," Mr. Ban stressed, collaboration is
indispensable in addressing this menace and in addressing these crimes. This is
why he said that he was looking forward to the rapid operationalization of the
Multinational Joint Task Force.

"No country can tackle this threat on its own. I welcome Nigeria's increased
cooperation with countries of the region. We know this battle will not be won by
military force alone. Weapons may kill terrorists. But good governance will kill
terrorism."

Also delivering remarks to a dialogue about today's interlinked challenges, the
Secretary-General underlined how development deficits - economic
marginalization, lack of opportunities, and climate stress - have greatly
aggravated security challenges. "The Boko Haram insurgency emerged from the
seeds of grievances," he observed.

This is why the development challenge must be addressed by tackling the root
causes and implementing the Sustainable Development Goals Member States agreed
on and will approve at a summit in New York late September, Mr. Ban went on to
say.

"To achieve our global goals, we must be people-centred and planet-friendly.
People-centred means poverty eradication, safe schools, good health care, decent
jobs. And it must mean empowering women and girls. Planet-sensitive means taking
on the threat of climate change and living harmoniously with nature."

Explaining that climate change was a "moral issue," as much as an economic and
political concern, the UN chief presented sustainable development as "putting
the economic, the social and the environmental on an equal level," in "one
integrated agenda."

"We have a financing framework that was approved last month in Addis Ababa. We
have the new transformative Goals that will be adopted by world leaders next
month in New York. And in December in Paris, the world's governments have
committed to approve a universal, fair, and meaningful climate change
agreement."

Ban Ki-moon also noted that all actions, including in the field of
counter-terrorism, must rest on a "strong foundation" of human rights and honest
institutions. "Surely we can all agree: counter-terror should not be
counter-productive."

Commending the President Buhari for his determination that military operations
adopt a human rights-centred approach, he offered the United Nations'
assistance, positioned to support Nigeria through training and other measures to
ensure that such operations strictly comply with international humanitarian,
human rights and refugee law.

"We also stand ready to respond to the increasing humanitarian challenges
associated with Boko Haram violence", the Secretary-General assured, requesting
his UN team to "scale up" humanitarian presence.

Considering Nigeria as a UN key partner and leader on the international stage,
Mr. Ban said that the country's leadership was needed on many fronts, "from
strong public health policies for women and girls to people-centred development,
including peace and security in the region and internationally."



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 25, 2015 Tuesday 5:43 AM GMT

Mystery hero of the train terror attack is American professor: Academic was
first to respond and was shot when he spotted suspicious gunman in bathroom -
prompting airman to take him down

BYLINE: KELLY MCLAUGHLIN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1514 words



     ·    First passenger who wrestled gunman has been identified as US
          professor Mark Moogalian
     ·    The professor first became suspicious when he saw Ayoub El-Khazzani go
          into the train bathroom with a suitcase on Friday
     ·    Moogalian, who is recovering in a Lille hospital, ripped an assault
          rifle from El-Khazzani's hands before the attacker him in neck with a
          handgun
     ·    Moogalian was identified as four other men were awarded the Legion
          d'Honneur by French President Francois Hollande
     ·    Hollande said their intervention on train prevented  'veritable
          carnage'


As four heroes were awarded France's highest honor of bravery on Monday for
preventing 'carnage' by tackling a French train terrorist, a fifth hero has been
revealed.

Mark Moogalian, an academic at the University of Paris, was shot in the neck as
he fought with Ayoub El-Khazzani on board the high-speed service from Amsterdam
to Paris.

Moogalian, 51, originally from Midlothian, Virginia, is said to have first
become suspicious when he saw El-Khazzani enter the train's bathroom with his
suitcase on Friday.

Moogalian's name was revealed the same day US Airman Spencer Stone, National
Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, their childhood friend Anthony Sadler and Briton Chris
Norman were presented with the Legion d'Honneur at the Elysee Palace in Paris.

French President Francois Hollande hailed Moogalian for his 'courage' at the
ceremony.

'My husband told me that he had seen someone strange because he had entered the
toilets with his suitcase and it lasted a long time,' Moogalian's wife Isabelle
Risacher told Europe1 radio. 'A little while later the guy came out and that's
when he saw that the guy was carrying a gun.'

He told his wife to 'go', then 'rushed towards the gunman'.

The professor came to aid of a French banker known only as 'Damien A' who was
initially confronted by El-Khazzani during the attack.

Acting instinctively to protect his wife, Moogalian ripped the Kalashnikov
assault rifle from El-Khazzani who then drew a handgun and the professor in the
back of the neck.

After being shot, Moogalian, a musician in a band called Secret Season, feared
he was going to die after suffering massive blood loss.

Scroll down for video

'I did not see my husband get shot, it happened too quickly and I was pretty
much hiding behind seats,' Risacher said. 'But I look at my husband through the
seats at an angle and he looked straight at me and said, "I'm hit!"...

'There was blood everywhere. I ran towards him and I could see that he a wound
on his back, I then saw another wound by his neck.'

Risacher said she raced through the train screaming 'Help me!' as she searched
for a doctor. In the next car, she found Stone, Skarlatos, Sadler and Norman
subduing the gunman.

She said credited Stone, a 23-year-old U.S. airman and trained medical
technician who had been traveling through Europe with Skarlatos and Sadler, with
saving her husband.

'He put his finger on my husband's neck wound to stop the hemorrhaging
continuing and he stayed in this position during the whole voyage,' Risacher
told Europe1.

Moogalian, a keen cyclist and professor of English, is being treated in hospital
in Lille and may have lost some use his left arm after suffering nerve damage.

Risacher said her husband and the other men on the train were heroes.

'Thankfully we had the... military guys on the train. Otherwise we'd all be
dead,' she told The Daily Telegraph.

Moogalian's sister, Julia, told The Daily Telegraph that Hollande had asked him
to dinner when he had recovered.

'We are extremely proud of him', she added. 'We are excited that he has been so
brave.

'But he is an ocean away from us so it's difficult to be apart at a time like
this.'

French President Francois Hollande, who pinned on Stone, Skarlatos, Sadler and
Norman's medals on Monday, praised the men for taking action in the face of
terrorism.

EDITOR ACCUSED OF RACISM AFTER 'PARANOIA' OVER 'TANNED GUYS'

The editor of a Belgian women's magazine was accused of racism after appearing
to suggest she felt 'paranoid' about 'tanned guys with bags' in the wake of the
train attack.

Beatrice Ercolini, who runs Elle Belgique, tweeted: 'Get on the Thalys and
resist the urge to stare at all the tanned guys with bags (there are plenty)
#paranoia.'

Her comments sparked a backlash online, with Twitter users pointing out that one
of the 'tanned' passengers on the train had been a black American who foiled the
gunman, it was reported by The Daily Telegraph.

She later said her remarks had been taken out of context and that she had
intended to encourage diversity.

She told Le Soir: 'On the 8.17 train, all eyes were on a large brown [man]
rummaging in his bag.

'I was struck by the tense atmosphere that prevailed. My reflex was in fact not
to fall into the trap, as suggested in the tweet, and look out of the window.

'My tweet was certainly not intended to stigmatize a community. Quite the
contrary!'

She deleted the tweet.

Speaking at the medal ceremony, Hollande told Stone and Skarlatos that while
they may have been soldiers on that day, 'you were simply passengers. You
behaved as soldiers but also as responsible men'.

The pair and their longtime friend Anthony Sadler, subdued the gunman as he
moved through the train with an assault rifle strapped to his bare chest.
Norman, an IT expert, jumped in to help tie him up.

The men showed 'that faced with terror, we have the power to resist. You also
gave a lesson in courage, in will, and thus in hope,' Hollande said.

Norman, speaking in French after receiving the medal, said it was less a
question of heroism than survival.

'I hope this doesn't happen to you, but I ask you to really think: OK, what will
I do if this happens?

'Am I going to simply stand still or am I going to try to be active if the
situation presents itself?' he said.

Stone, 23, who has his arm in a sling and his eye bruised said he was coming out
of a deep sleep when the gunman appeared.

Skarlatos, a 22-year-old National Guardsman recently back from Afghanistan 'just
hit me on the shoulder and said "Let's go",' Stone said.

With those words, Hollande said, a 'veritable carnage' was avoided.

He added: 'Since Friday, the entire world admires your courage, your sangfroid,
your spirit of solidarity.

'This is what allowed you to with bare hands - your bare hands - subdue an armed
man. This must be an example for all, and a source of inspiration,' Hollande
said.

The gunman, identified as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub El-Khazzani, is detained
and being questioned by French counterterrorism police outside Paris.

El-Khezzani's lawyer, Sophie David, told Le Monde newspaper the gunman is
ill-educated, emaciated, and told her he had spent the past six months traveling
between Belgium, Germany and Austria, as well as France and Andorra.

She said he told her that he only intended to rob the train with a cache of guns
he came across in a public garden near the train station and is 'dumbfounded'
that it is being treated as an act of terrorism.

Norman, Stone, Skarlatos and Sadler, will reportedly be made chevaliers, or
knights.

At a press conference at the US Embassy in Paris on Sunday Stone said he just
wanted to 'survive and for my friends and everyone else on the train to make
it'.

He praised French medical staff and said that the unknown French man on the
554-passenger train 'started the struggle at first, I think he deserves a lot of
credit'.

Stone added: 'We ran down, tackled him and hit the ground. Alek tackled him and
grabbed the gun out of his hand while I put him in a chokehold.

'It seemed like he kept on pulling more weapons - left and right.

'He pulled out a handgun. Alek took that. He took out a box cutter and was
jabbing at me with that. We let go and all three of us started punching him
while he was in the middle of us.

'I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while Alek was hitting
him in the head with the pistol or rifle.'

Norman said he helped the three Americans overpower the gunman because he
thought he was 'probably going to die anyway'.

Sadler, astudent at California State University in Sacramento, said that
El-Khazzani 'never said a word'.

'At that time, it was either do something or die,' he told CNN.

Skarlatos also thanked Norman for helping to tie the gunman up after he had been
overpowered.

French police were reportedly warned more than a year ago about El-Khazzani's
radical views.

Spanish law enforcement told their French counterparts in March 2014 that
El-Khazzani had a 'relationship with radical Islam', the Spanish El Pais
newspaper reported.

It also claimed the 26-year-old Moroccan, believed to have visited Syria last
year, had been included on a European anti-extremism police database as far back
as 2012.

Officials told the Associated Press news agency that El-Khazzani was on the
radar of authorities in France, Belgium and Spain.

The Legion d'Honneur was created under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802, and roughly
one million people have received it over the years.

El-Khazzani is being questioned in custody by French counter-terrorism police
outside Paris.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 25, 2015 Tuesday 3:00 AM GMT

'The coward deserved what he got': Father of hero National Guardsman blasts
political-correctness brigade for being terror apologists after French train
attack

BYLINE: KELLY MCLAUGHLIN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1494 words



     ·    National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos's father Emanuel Skarlatos said that
          people need to recognize French train attack as terrorism
     ·    He spoke to MSNBC about the heroic acts of his son, US Airman Spencer
          Stone, their childhood friend Anthony Sadler and Briton Chris Norman
     ·    A fifth hero on train was  identified on Monday as professor Mark
          Moogalian, who was shot by the gunman, Ayoub El-Khazzani
     ·    Moogalian was identified as the four other men were awarded the Legion
          d'Honneur by French President Francois Hollande
     ·    Hollande said their intervention on train prevented  'veritable
          carnage'


The father of one of the men who stopped a possible terrorist attack on a French
train on Friday has delivered a strong message about political correctness.

Emanuel Skarlatos, the father of National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, called MSNBC
and discussed the heroic actions of his son and four other men who took down the
gunman, and finished the conversation by asking, 'Can I just say one quick
thing?'

'It's better to die like a lion that be slaughtered like sheep. And this
terrorist coward deserved what he got, and the PC crowd needs to recognize
terrorism for what it is. And I thank you very much for having me on,' the
father told host Tamron Hall.

Emanuel Skarlatos's interview on Monday came the same day his son, along with US
Airman Spencer Stone, their childhood friend Anthony Sadler and Briton Chris
Norman, were presented with the Legion d'Honnuer at the Elysee Palace in Paris.

A fifth hero, American professor Mark Moogalian, was identified on Monday and is
recovering from a gunshot wound at a hospital in Lille.

Moogalian, an academic at the University of Paris, was shot in the neck as he
fought with Ayoub El-Khazzani on board the high-speed service from Amsterdam to
Paris.

At the ceremony for the four men, French President Francois Hollande hailed
Moogalian for his 'courage'.

Moogalian, 51, originally from Midlothian, Virginia, is said to have first
become suspicious when he saw El-Khazzani enter the train's bathroom with his
suitcase on Friday.

The professor came to aid of a French banker known only as 'Damien A' who was
initially confronted by El-Khazzani during the attack.

Acting instinctively to protect his wife, Isabelle Risacher, Moogalian ripped
the Kalashnikov assault rifle from El-Khazzani who then drew a handgun and the
professor in the back of the neck.

Risacher said she raced through the train screaming 'Help me!' as she searched
for a doctor. In the next car, she found Stone, Skarlatos, Sadler and Norman
subduing the gunman.

She said credited Stone, a 23-year-old U.S. airman and trained medical
technician who had been traveling through Europe with Skarlatos and Sadler, with
saving her husband.

'He put his finger on my husband's neck wound to stop the hemorrhaging
continuing and he stayed in this position during the whole voyage,' Risacher
told Europe1 radio.

Moogalian, a keen cyclist and professor of English, is being treated in hospital
in Lille and may have lost some use his left arm after suffering nerve damage.

Risacher said her husband and the other men on the train were heroes.

'Thankfully we had the... military guys on the train. Otherwise we'd all be
dead,' she told The Daily Telegraph.

Risacher said she raced through the train screaming 'Help me!' as she searched
for a doctor. In the next car, she found Stone, Skarlatos, Sadler and Norman
subduing the gunman.

She said credited Stone, a 23-year-old US airman and trained medical technician
who had been traveling through Europe with Skarlatos and Sadler, with saving her
husband.

Hollande, who pinned on Stone, Skarlatos, Sadler and Norman's medals on Monday,
praised the men for taking action in the face of terrorism.

Speaking at the medal ceremony, Hollande told Stone and Skarlatos that while
they may have been soldiers on that day, 'you were simply passengers. You
behaved as soldiers but also as responsible men'.

The pair and their longtime friend Anthony Sadler, subdued the gunman as he
moved through the train with an assault rifle strapped to his bare chest.
Norman, an IT expert, jumped in to help tie him up.

The men showed 'that faced with terror, we have the power to resist. You also
gave a lesson in courage, in will, and thus in hope,' Hollande said.

Norman, speaking in French after receiving the medal, said it was less a
question of heroism than survival.

'I hope this doesn't happen to you, but I ask you to really think: OK, what will
I do if this happens?

'Am I going to simply stand still or am I going to try to be active if the
situation presents itself?' he said.

Stone, 23, who has his arm in a sling and his eye bruised said he was coming out
of a deep sleep when the gunman appeared.

Skarlatos, a 22-year-old National Guardsman recently back from Afghanistan 'just
hit me on the shoulder and said "Let's go",' Stone said.

With those words, Hollande said, a 'veritable carnage' was avoided.

He added: 'Since Friday, the entire world admires your courage, your sangfroid,
your spirit of solidarity.

'This is what allowed you to with bare hands - your bare hands - subdue an armed
man. This must be an example for all, and a source of inspiration,' Hollande
said.

EDITOR ACCUSED OF RACISM AFTER 'PARANOIA' OVER 'TANNED GUYS'

The editor of a Belgian women's magazine was accused of racism after appearing
to suggest she felt 'paranoid' about 'tanned guys with bags' in the wake of the
train attack.

Beatrice Ercolini, who runs Elle Belgique, tweeted: 'Get on the Thalys and
resist the urge to stare at all the tanned guys with bags (there are plenty)
#paranoia.'

Her comments sparked a backlash online, with Twitter users pointing out that one
of the 'tanned' passengers on the train had been a black American who foiled the
gunman, it was reported by The Daily Telegraph.

She later said her remarks had been taken out of context and that she had
intended to encourage diversity.

She told Le Soir: 'On the 8.17 train, all eyes were on a large brown [man]
rummaging in his bag.

'I was struck by the tense atmosphere that prevailed. My reflex was in fact not
to fall into the trap, as suggested in the tweet, and look out of the window.

'My tweet was certainly not intended to stigmatize a community. Quite the
contrary!'

She deleted the tweet.

The gunman, identified as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub El-Khazzani, is detained
and being questioned by French counterterrorism police outside Paris.

El-Khezzani's lawyer, Sophie David, told Le Monde newspaper the gunman is
ill-educated, emaciated, and told her he had spent the past six months traveling
between Belgium, Germany and Austria, as well as France and Andorra.

She said he told her that he only intended to rob the train with a cache of guns
he came across in a public garden near the train station and is 'dumbfounded'
that it is being treated as an act of terrorism.

Norman, Stone, Skarlatos and Sadler, will reportedly be made chevaliers, or
knights.

At a press conference at the US Embassy in Paris on Sunday Stone said he just
wanted to 'survive and for my friends and everyone else on the train to make
it'.

He praised French medical staff and said that the unknown French man on the
554-passenger train 'started the struggle at first, I think he deserves a lot of
credit'.

Stone added: 'We ran down, tackled him and hit the ground. Alek tackled him and
grabbed the gun out of his hand while I put him in a chokehold.

'It seemed like he kept on pulling more weapons - left and right.

'He pulled out a handgun. Alek took that. He took out a box cutter and was
jabbing at me with that. We let go and all three of us started punching him
while he was in the middle of us.

'I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while Alek was hitting
him in the head with the pistol or rifle.'

Norman said he helped the three Americans overpower the gunman because he
thought he was 'probably going to die anyway'.

Sadler, astudent at California State University in Sacramento, said that
El-Khazzani 'never said a word'.

'At that time, it was either do something or die,' he told CNN.

Skarlatos also thanked Norman for helping to tie the gunman up after he had been
overpowered.

French police were reportedly warned more than a year ago about El-Khazzani's
radical views.

Spanish law enforcement told their French counterparts in March 2014 that
El-Khazzani had a 'relationship with radical Islam', the Spanish El Pais
newspaper reported.

It also claimed the 26-year-old Moroccan, believed to have visited Syria last
year, had been included on a European anti-extremism police database as far back
as 2012.

Officials told the Associated Press news agency that El-Khazzani was on the
radar of authorities in France, Belgium and Spain.

The Legion d'Honneur was created under Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802, and roughly
one million people have received it over the years.

El-Khazzani is being questioned in custody by French counter-terrorism police
outside Paris.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 25, 2015 Tuesday 1:45 PM GMT

Watch poignant moment Brit hero who stopped terror attack is awarded France's
top bravery honour;
Computer expert Chris Norman received the Legion d'Honneur from French President
Francois Hollande

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 604 words


This is the moment the hero British grandfather who helped tackle a gunman armed
with an AK-47 on a train from Amsterdam to Paris was presented with France's top
honour for bravery.

Computer expert Chris Norman received the Legion d'Honneur from French President
Francois Hollande with three Americans who fought suspected Moroccan jihadist
Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, on Friday.

Mr Hollande told the three men: "In the name of France I would like to thank you
for what you have done. Your heroism, you are an example to many people, a
source of inspiration.

"And you have shown that with the evil of terrorism that there is the good of
humanity and that is what you represent.

Mr Norman smiled as Mr Hollande pinned the honour to his chest, before kissing
the president on both cheeks.

Mr Norman, who lives in France, said he acted because he thought he was
"probably going to die anyway."

He added: "I'd rather die being active, trying to get him down, than simply sit
in the corner and be shot."

Three American servicemen and Mr Norman helped heavily-armed subdue terror
suspect Ayoub el Khazzano, 26, after he boarded a high speed train from
Amsterdam to France.

They leapt into action on Friday after a passenger briefly struggled with the
gunman as he tried

to enter the train's toilet and noticed el Khazzano was armed.

The three Americans and Mr Norman held the suspected terrorist down, knocked him
out

and tied him up until armed police arrived.

Mr Norman helped tie up the thug - who as well an AK47 also had a handgun and a
knife - in a violent struggle as screaming passengers watched.

One of the passengers, French-American Mark Moogalian, remains in hospital from
stab wounds although the US ambassador to France Jane Hartley said he was "doing
pretty well."

US airman Spencer Stone, 23, almost lost his thumb in the attack but has
revealed how he plugged Mr Moogalian's blood-spurting wound with his fingers
after himself being wounded.

He said: "I just stuck two of my fingers in the hole, found what I thought to be
the artery, pushed down and the bleeding stopped.

He was at a news conference with Mr Norman and his two fellow rescuers Anthony
Sadler, also 23, and National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, 22.

Stone thanked the doctors who reattached his thumb, which was almost severed by
the gunman, who had been armed with a box cutter, a pistol and a Kalashnikov
AK-47 assault rifle.

According to Spanish security sources, Khazzani travelled to France in 2014 and
went to Syria.

French security sources said he went to Berlin airport for a flight to Istanbul
on May 10 this year.

He is on a French list of around 3,000 people who are documented as being a
potential militant Islamist threat.

His father, Mohammed el Khazzani, was quoted by Spanish newspaper El Mundo as
saying he had not spoken to his son since he left the Spanish southern port town
of Algeciras for France.

He went there in 2014 to work for a mobile phone company that fired him one
month into a six-month contract.

He added: "They are saying Ayoub is a terrorist but I simply can't believe it,"
said Khazzani, 64, a scrap merchant who lives in the poor El Saladillo district
of Algeciras with his wife and some of his six children.

He added: "Why would he want to kill anyone? It makes no sense. The only
terrorism he is guilty of is terrorism for bread. He doesn't have enough money
to feed himself properly."

France has been on high alert since January this year when 17 people died in
Islamist militant attacks on a satirical newspaper and in a siege in a Jewish
shop.

Have your say in our new comments section below

The immediate aftermath of the French train attack

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terror attack alert Hundreds of [...];
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 29 words


Terror attack alert Hundreds of Islamist extremists who have returned from Syria
or Iraq are ready to launch attacks in Europe, counterterrorism officials in
Spain have warned.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terror attack alert;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 25 words


Hundreds of Islamist extremists who have returned from Syria or Iraq are ready
to launch attacks in Europe, counterterrorism officials have warned. Page 21

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top French bravery honour for train terror attack heros

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 206 words


A BRITISH grandfather who helped subdue a gunman armed with an AK-47 on a train
from Amsterdam to Paris has been presented with France's top honour for bravery.

IT expert Chris Norman received the Legion d'Honneur from French President
Francois Hollande alongside three Americans who fought suspected Morrocan
jihadist Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, on Friday.

Mr Hollande said the men showed "that faced with terror, we have the power to
resist", adding, "you also gave a lesson in courage, in will, and thus in hope".

Mr Norman smiled as Mr Hollande pinned the honour to his chest, before kissing
the president on both cheeks.

US Airman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, and Sacramento State
University student Anthony Sadler, who stopped the gunman as he moved through
the train with an assault rifle strapped to his chest, were also made
chevaliers, or knights, of the Legion during the ceremony.

Mr Hollande said the two Americans who first tackled the gunman were soldiers,
"but on Friday you were simply passengers. You behaved as soldiers but also as
responsible men."

He told the four men the entire world admired their courage and "spirit of
solidarity", adding they "must be an example for all, and a source of
inspiration".

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: British businessman, Chris Norman, smiles as he leaves the Elysee
Palace <Bin Paris after being awarded with the French Legion of Honor Michel
Euler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     August 26, 2015 Wednesday 11:32 AM GMT

9/11: Woman dubbed 'Dust Lady' after terror attack dies

BYLINE: Harry Kemble

LENGTH: 438 words


ONE of the faces of 9/11 has tragically died after a year-long battle with
stomach cancer, her family said.

GETTY

ICONIC: 'Dust Lady' - Marcy Borders - escapes the World Trade Center moments
before

A photographer snapped this picture of bank worker Marcy Borders caked in ash
fleeing the World Trade Centre nearly 14 years ago.

Ms Borders, 42, had ignored her boss' orders to remain at her desk during the
disaster and instead chose to escape.

Daughter Noelle said: "My mum fought an amazing battle.

"Not only is she the "Dust Lady" but she is my hero and she will forever live
through me."

John Borders called his cousin a "hero" on Facebook - and added: "Unfortunately
[she] succumbed to the disease that has ridden her body since 9/11."

GETTY

9/11: Marcy Borders was widely known to as Dust lady after this image became a
symbol of the...

GETTY

MUM: Marcy Borders, a recovering drug addict, had managed to win back custody of
her kids be...

He also wrote: "In addition to losing so many friends, co-workers and colleagues
on and after that tragic day, the pains from yesteryear have found a way to
resurface."

A stranger saved Ms Borders after she ran out of her work place by pulling her
to safety into a building lobby.

Once there, the photographer took their opportunity to take the iconic picture.

Borders has previously wondered if the dust she inhaled "ignited cancer cells"
inside her.

"I didn't believe it because I haven't had any illnesses," she said. "I don't
have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes."

GETTY

'Hero': Cousin John Borders called Ms Borders his 'hero'

Borders' life took a turn for the worse after 9/11.

In 2011, she said: "I didn't do a day's work in nearly 10 years and by 2011 I
was a complete mess.

"Every time I saw an aircraft, I panicked."

She reportedly battled severe depression and became addicted to crack cocaine.

Borders lost custody of her two kids and checked into rehab in 2011.

However she got sober and regained custody of her children.

Related articles Tunisia terror: Traumatised couple split after beach massacre
WATCH: Friends deleted scene goes viral after controversial 9/11 joke was axed
Donald Trump: ISIS are targetting the Pope and the Vatican TERROR TRAIN: Brit IT
whiz helps take down crazed gunman running amok with AK47

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     August 26, 2015 Wednesday 7:11 AM GMT

9/11 'dust lady' Marcy Borders dies from cancer aged 42;
The 42-year-old became one of the iconic images of the 2001 terror attacks after
she was pictured covered head to toe in thick dust

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words


A woman whose picture became one of the iconic images of the 9/11 terror
attacks, leading her to be known simply as the "Dust Lady", has died from
cancer.

Marcy Borders passed away on Monday after a year long battle against the
disease.

The 42-year-old mother-of-two was pictured covered head-to-toe in thick dust
after being caught up in the collapse of the Twin Towers.

Up until her death she always questioned whether her illness was related to what
she endured.

"I'm saying to myself 'Did this thing ignite cancer cells in me?" she once said.

"I definitely believe it because I haven't had any illnesses. I don't have high
blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes."

Marcy, of Bayonne, New Jersey, had only been in her job for a month working as a
legal assistant for Bank of America on September 11, 2001.

Her office was on the 81st floor of 1 World Trade Centre when al Qaeda
terrorists attacked flew into the two aboard two hijacked jets.

She disobeyed her boss who ordered her to stay at her desk - a move that saved
her life.

World Trade Center Museum & Memorial

Marcy, then 28, pushed her way down the stairwell to the streets below and
stepped onto the pavement just as the south tower began to collapse.

A stranger pulled her into the reception of a nearby building as the other tower
crumbled.

Official time lapse of One World Trade Center shows you how much has changed

Following her death her' brother, Michael Borders, wrote on Facebook: "I can't
believe my sister is gone."

After 9/11 she struggled as her life spiralled out of control.

She battled severe depression and became addicted to crack cocaine.

"I didn't do a day's work in nearly 10 years, and by 2011 I was a complete
mess," she said.

"Every time I saw an aircraft, I panicked."

Eventually she lost custody of her two children as she checked into rehab in
April 2011.

Following her death her cousin, John Borders called her a "hero" saying she,
"unfortunately succumbed to the diseases that has ridden her body since 9/11."

"In addition to losing so many friends, co-workers and colleagues on and after
that tragic day. The pains from yesteryear have found a way to resurface," he
wrote on Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

Train attack terror probe is instigated

BYLINE: stuartsandler

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 243 words


FRANCE: A terror investigation has been launched after French authorities said
the suspected attacker in a thwarted shooting on a train in France watched a
radical Islamic video minutes before the violence.

Prosecutor Francois Molins said the decision to open an investigation was based
on the actions of 26-year-old Moroccan suspect Ayoub El-Khazzani on the train on
Friday night and information from other European authorities about his travels
and apparent links to radical Islam.

Mr Molins said that El-Khazzani watched the online video on his mobile phone
minutes before he walked through the Amsterdam-to-Paris train carrying an
assault rifle and other weapons.

Authorities say they found the suspect's phone in a bag left in the train.
El-Khazzani boarded the train on Friday at a Brussels station.

The gunman was tackled and tied up by a group of three American friends and a
British businessman. Another man who tried to stop him - a French-American named
Mark Moogalian - is in hospital with a gunshot wound.

Now that the formal investigation is open, investigating magistrates are
expected to file numerous charges against El-Khazzani, including an attempted
terrorism-related attack.

El-Khazzani was found to have an AKM assault rifle with 270 rounds of
ammunition, a 9mm handgun, a box-cutter and a bottle of gasoline, the prosecutor
said.

He had travelled through several European countries and had been repeatedly
incarcerated in Spain, Mr Molins said.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     August 26, 2015 Wednesday 5:07 PM GMT

Marcy Borders, 9/11's 'dust lady', dies of stomach cancer;
Bank worker who survived World Trade Center terror attack dies at 42 after
year-long battle with cancer

BYLINE: Nadia Khomami

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 918 words


It was one of the most haunting images that emerged after 9/11: a woman covered
in ash and powdered concrete fleeing the World Trade Center after the first
plane struck the tower and brought horror to the heart of New York.

Marcy Borders was a 28-year-old Bank of America worker when the photograph of
her staring into the lens with her eyes asquint and her mouth agape was taken.
Borders, who came to be known around the world as "dust lady", died on Monday at
the age of 42 after a year-long battle with stomach cancer that she blamed on
dust inhaled during the attack.

"I can't believe my sister is gone," Michael Borders wrote of his sibling on
Facebook. Borders' cousin John Borde added that she was a "hero" and she
"unfortunately succumbed to the diseases that have ridden her body since 9/11".

"In addition to losing so many friends, coworkers, and colleagues on and after
that tragic day... the pain from yesteryear has found a way to resurface," he
said.

Borders was photographed by Stan Honda, of the AFP agency after she was pulled
in to a building lobby after watching the North Tower of the World Trade Center
collapsed. She had no idea that the picture had been taken until her mother
called to say she had seen the picture. The image, which appeared in Time
Magazine's list of 25 most powerful images, remained an emblem of the problems
that continued to trouble her after the attacks.

She told the Jersey Journal before her death: "I'm saying to myself 'Did this
thing ignite cancer cells in me?' I definitely believe it because I haven't had
any illnesses. I don't have high blood pressure ... high cholesterol, diabetes.

"How do you go from being healthy to waking up the next day with cancer?"

Borders, of Bayonne, New Jersey, was just a month into her new job on the 81st
floor of the north tower when American Airlines Flight 11 slammed into the
building. Instead of remaining at her desk, as her supervisor had ordered, she
ran from the building and into the chaotic street, which was heaving with
enormous clouds of dust and the hordes of walking wounded.

"I was picking the junk off the desk, getting ready to start my day," Borders
said in an interview in 2011. "That was then the plane hit. That's when the
building started quaking and swaying. I lost all control, and I went into a
frenzy. I fought my way out of that place.

"Hundreds of people were trying to get out. My stairwell was badly damaged and
we had to move stairwells, I was convinced we were going to die. I'm so glad I
had the strength to get to the bottom. There were wounded and the injured, it
was too much for one to witness.

"I saw people with things sticking out of them, covered head to toe in blood. I
couldn't understand it. What I saw was carnage, and I thought, 'God, I'm going
to die anyway'."

Related: Inside the White House on 9/11 - in pictures

Borders' life spiralled downward after that fateful moment in 2001. She battled
severe depression and became addicted to crack cocaine. "I didn't do a day's
work in nearly 10 years, and by 2011 I was a complete mess," she said. "I was
convinced Osama bin Laden was planning more attacks. Every time I saw an
aircraft, I panicked. If I saw a man on a building, I was convinced he was going
to shoot me."

After losing custody of her two children, Borders checked into rehab in April
2011 and remained sober. She announced that she'd been diagnosed with stomach
cancer and had undergone chemotherapy last summer. She was scheduled to undergo
further surgery, radiation and chemotherapy in December.

Her daughter, Noelle, told the New York Post her mother "fought an amazing
battle".

"Not only is she the 'Dust Lady' but she is my hero and she will forever live
through me."

The New York mayor Bill di Blasio tweeted: "Marcy Borders' passing is a
difficult reminder of the tragedy our city suffered nearly 14 years ago. NYC
holds her loved ones in our hearts."

Thousands of people who were at Ground Zero on and after 9/11 - including
emergency service workers, survivors and local residents - have since been
diagnosed with cancer. In 2011, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund was
re-opened to compensate first responders for health problems related to the
attacks.

Multiple studies conducted in the 14 years since 9/11 show that first responders
and people working and living downtown at the time of the attacks have since
experienced new or exacerbated respiratory ailments. And Mount Sinai Selikoff
Centers for Occupational Health said last year that there were at least 1,646
certified cancer cases found in 9/11 first responders and rescuers.

Yet, no study has conclusively proved a connection between 9/11 and cancer in
people who were at Ground Zero during and immediately following the attacks.
Researchers have called for continued monitoring of survivors and long-term
analysis of medical conditions experienced by people who were at Ground Zero -
in part because cancer can take much longer to develop than respiratory illness.

The air at Ground Zero contained pulverized concrete, shards of glass and
carcinogens, according to a 2011 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
report.

Under the Zadroga Act, which provides money for treatment of 9/11-related
illness, the World Trade Center health program must conduct a regular review of
ground zero-related health conditions. The program initially excluded cancer,
but was amended in 2012 after a push by politicians who said there was
sufficient evidence to prove a connection between the attack and cancer.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     August 26, 2015 Wednesday 4:58 PM GMT

9/11 anniversary: Muslims on Reddit thread tell of hostility following terrorist
attack;
The thread received over 6,000 comments in 24 hours

BYLINE: Roisin O'Connor

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 237 words


As stories from survivors and rescue teams are retold ahead of the 14th
anniversary of 9/11, a moving thread on Reddit has brought voices that were
previously unheard to wider attention.

The question was put to Muslims: "How much did your life change after 9/11?"

The thread has received over 6,000 comments in 24 hours, with stories emerging
of suddenly-unfriendly neighbours, bullying at school, and physical violence
against Muslims or people believed to be Muslim.

Reddit user Ragelover97 wrote: "My friends treated my family and I differently.
We stopped getting invited to events like birthday parties... This was a big
deal because in my old neighbourhood when you had a birthday the entire
neighbourhood was invited to celebrate with you."

Another, user AG3287, wrote: "I also lived in Staten Island at the time. My
family is Hindu, not Muslim, but my best friend's mom still told him to stop
hanging out with me."

Each of the following (unverified) comments is from the continuing Reddit
thread:

Comment from discussion [Serious]Muslims of Reddit, how much did your life
change after 9/11?.

Comment from discussion [Serious]Muslims of Reddit, how much did your life
change after 9/11?.

Comment from discussion [Serious]Muslims of Reddit, how much did your life
change after 9/11?.

Read more: 'Dust Lady' of 9/11 Marcy Borders diesOne World Trade Center base
jumpers convicted 9/11 firefighter wins $5 million lottery jackpot

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 26, 2015 Wednesday 5:57 AM GMT

Hero who stopped terrorist attack on French train arrives back on U.S. soil in
private jet sportswear billionaire lent to him and his brave band of friends

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN and REGINA F. GRAHAM FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 827 words



     ·    Anthony Sadler, 23, returns home to Sacramento after stop in Oregon
     ·    He, with friends Alek Skarlatos, 22, and Spencer Stone, 23, helped
          stop gunman Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, from carrying out terrorist attack
          in France
     ·    French President Francois Hollande gave the three friends and British
          businessman Christopher Norman, 62, the Legion d'Honneur
     ·    Columbia Sportswear CEO Tim Boyle lent his private jet to the three
          mothers of the three young men so they could see sons honored


One of the American heroes who stopped a would-be terrorist aboard a train in
France has arrived back in the United States.

Anthony Sadler, 23, was seen departing his plane in Sacramento four days after
taking action to prevent what could have been a mass shooting en route from
Amsterdam to Paris on Friday.

He and childhood friends Alek Skarlatos, 22, a National Guard member, and US Air
Force airman Spencer Stone, 23, confronted 26-year-old Moroccan national Ayoub
El-Khazzani after he wounded four on the train.

Sadler, a senior at Sacramento State University, first arrived in Oregon with
his family around 2.10pm local time on a private jet lent to him by the
billionaire CEO of Columbia Sportswear Tim Boyle

He then flew back to northern California from Portland Tuesday evening.

Scroll down for video

A calendar for Sacramento State says that instruction at the university begins
next week.

The sudden hero was seen coming out of his flight from Oregon wearing a hoodie
around 7pm, according to  CBS  Sacramento.

Neither Skarlots or Stone, who was injured in the attack and receiving treatment
in Germany, were seen on the tarmac Tuesday afternoon with Sadler.

Sacramento is planning on holding a parade for the three men, who grew up
together in the area, Mayor Kevin Johnson tweeted Monday.

Sadler, who was accompanied by his family, did not stop to talk to media in
Oregon.

The mothers of the three American heroes almost didn't make it to the ceremony
honoring their sons in Paris on Monday.

However Boyle, the chief executive officer of Portland-based Columbia
Sportswear, loaned his private jet, a Dassault Falcon 2000, to the women.

His pilot Doug Perrill called to say they were in desperate need of
transportation.

'These guys who were so brave as to do what they did, I just felt they deserved
to have their moms present,' Boyle said.,

The billionaire, also said that at least one of the mothers did not have a
passport.

Perrill worked with the US State Department to have this issue resolved.

In addition, last-minute flights through international airspace are ' a
complicated venture that was made much easier by the State Department,' The
Oregonian  reported.

Arriving in Oregon from Sacramento, the mothers of Stone and Skarlatos met
Sadler's mother who arrived from Las Vegas.

Boyle and his wife, Mary, greeted the women before they departed on the journey
to Paris along with the brother of one of the men, who is a California Highway
patrolman.

The 11-seat plane carrying the special passengers arrived at Paris-Le Bourget
Airport, located northeast of the city, at about 7:30am local time on Monday.

They arrived with enough time to see their sons presented with the Legion
d'Honneur at the Elysee Palace by French President Francois Hollande.

'By their courage, they saved lives,' the president said. 'They gave us an
example of what is possible to do in these kinds of situations'.

British businessman Chris Norman was also honored in the ceremony.

On Tuesday the US Army announced that Skarlatos would receive Soldiers Medal,
its highest award for events 'not involving actual conflict with an enemy',
according to KATU.

Stone is being considered for the Airman Medal, the Air Force's highest
noncombat award, and may also be considered for a Purple Heart because of his
wound.

The airman was the first to make contact with El-Khazzani, tackling him to the
floor of the train and getting cut with a box cutter as the three Americans beat
the gunman unconscious.

Honors for the Americans also included being invited to see the Paris premiere
of the hip-hop film Straight Outta Compton after running into actors from the
film while out in the city.

A French prosecutor said on Tuesday that El-Khazzani watched a video of 'Islamic
preaching,' which encouraged 'violent acts' shortly before he was foiled in his
attack by the four passengers.

The suspected jihadi terrorist was 'well prepared' and carried 270 rounds of
ammunition and a bottle of petrol, Paris senior prosecutor Francois Molins said
at a news conference earlier today.

El-Khazzani is expected to eventually face a criminal trial for 'attempted
murders in relation to a terrorist enterprise.'

He was led into court blindfolded and barefoot and is expected to remain in
custody through a trial.

One of the attack's victims, Mark Moogalian, an American teacher in France,
remained in the hospital as of Tuesday.

He was shot in the neck by El-Khazzani with a Luger pistol after briefly
wrestling away the gunman's assault rifle.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror »probe into train attack;
WORLD BRIEFLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 75 words


A TERROR investigation has been launched after French authorities said the
suspected attacker in a thwarted shooting on a train in France watched a radical
Islamic video minutes before the violence.

The decision to open an inquiry is based on the actions of 26-year-old Moroccan
suspect Ayoub El-Khazzani on the train on Friday night and information from
other European authorities about his travels and apparent links to radical
Islam, say prosecutors.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 27, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teenage girl claimed bomb recipe in notebook was from Blue Peter;
Sixteen-year-old girlfriend of boy who plotted jihadist attack in Australia
admits terrorism charges

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 505 words


THE teenage girlfriend of Britain's youngest terrorist drew up "Blue Peter" bomb
recipes in a sketch book and researched terrorism on computers at school.

The 16-year-old girl exchanged thousands of messages with a 14-year-old boy who
last month admitted plotting an attack on an Anzac Day parade in Australia.

The pair contacted each other more than 2,000 times a day, declaring their love
for one another and talking about getting married and travelling to Syria.

The girl, from Manchester, also used her school computers to look up the
jihadist killer known as Jihadi John and the murderers of the soldier Lee Rigby.

She pleaded guilty to two offences of possessing documents likely to be of use
to a terrorist, including an explosives recipe. The girl, who cannot be named,
admitted the charges at the youth court at Manchester magistrates' court flanked
by her mother, an uncle and her www.solicitor.No evidence was found that she was
aware of the Anzac Day plot or any other plan to harm others or incite
terrorism, the court heard.

The girl was held in April following an investigation which also led to the
arrest of the boy, from Blackburn.

Papers from a previous court hearing told that when police searched her home,
they found a sketch pad which she said was hers for school work. It contained a
recipe for extracting ammonium nitrate from cold packs in order to make
explosives, which an expert confirmed was viable.

The girl told police the recipe was in response to a Blue Peter programme on
fireworks and denied it was part of any attack plan.

A Blackberry contained instructions for producing a timed circuit, a document
about DIY bomb-making and an "Anarchist Cookbook" that included explosives
recipes.

The girl also possessed publications by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant,
images of guns, knives and grenades, and photographs of terrorists including
Anwar al-Awlaki, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Osama Bin Laden. Images of Isil
symbols and flags and quotes including "I love that I should be killed in the
way of Allah" and "Only Jihad No Democracy" were also found, as well as
photographs of a dead child, an execution and people about to be beheaded. Files
from her school's IT network contained searches for the Taliban, Isil, Jihadi
John, balaclavas and searches for images of Michael Adebolajo, one of the
murderers of Lee Rigby. Another image of a girl carried the words: "I will be
the one who slaughters you, o kuffar, I will be a mujahid."

Police found that over eight days in March this year, the girl and the boy
exchanged 16,260 messages on Whatsapp.

Last month, the boy, now 15, admitted directing a plot with teenagers in
Melbourne to attack an Anzac Day parade there and behead a police officer. He is
to be sentenced in October.

The girl was granted bail by District Judge Khalid Qureshi, who agreed to adjust
the condition of her reporting to police to allow her to attend college. She
will not be allowed to travel outside England and Wales. The girl will be
sentenced on October 15 and could face custody.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                            August 27, 2015 Thursday

Pet owner spared jail after dogs terrorised estate and attacked eight-year-old
girl

BYLINE: Ben Blosse; ben.blosse@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: COURT:CROWN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 412  words


A PET owner whose dogs terrorised a Bransholme street for years and attacked an
eight-year-old girl has been spared jail.

Michelle Adams, 47, was warned to keep her dogs under proper control in 2013,
after neighbours reported them hounding and attacking members of the public.

On that occasion a contingent destruction order was imposed, meaning her two
lurchers and a Jack Russell were allowed to return to her home in Padstow Close,
on the condition of being inside or on a lead at all times.

Despite this, residents frequently spotted them roaming the area alone, Hull
Crown Court heard yesterday.

In May last year, one of the lurchers, called Ben, was spotted by itself in a
field close to Adams's home.

Jayne Bryan, prosecuting, told the court: "An eight-year-old girl was in the
field that afternoon and playing with a friend.

"She knew both of the lurchers and when she saw Ben run down the road, she told
her friend to run because 'the brown dog is here'.

"She didn't run, and the dog ran up to her and started bouncing around her as if
it wanted to play. However, the dog didn't play.

"It growled at her and bit her on the side of her body. The girl managed to
throw a plastic golf club she was playing with at the dog and run away."

The girl was taken to a local medical centre but did not suffer any serious
injuries from the bite. Following the attack, all three dogs were seized by
police.

Sentencing Adams to six months in prison, suspended for two years, Judge Simon
Jack told her: "If you keep dogs, you have a responsibility, especially if they
are large dogs or aggressive dogs. You should be very aware of that.

"If members of the public are physically harmed, it is an infringement of their
liberty because they become frightened of those dogs being out and about. That
is wholly unacceptable.

"You had a warning shot in 2013. But you allowed one of the dogs who had caused
the problems in the previous year to be out again, and this time it attacked a
child.

"You are responsible for that."

He ordered the lurcher, Ben, to be destroyed and banned Adams from owning dogs
for five years.

Judge Jack said a letter Adams had written to him "missed the point".

He said: "You still say you can't account for the actions of another person
taken outside your home. That appears to be blaming other people for what
happens and that completely misses the point.

"The dogs should never have been outside in the first place. You do not seem to
grasp you have a serious responsibility."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUSPENDED SENTENCE: Michelle Adams arriving at Hull Crown Court.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 27, 2015 Thursday

'Fund Defence to prevent terror attacks' says Simon Coveney

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 1403 words


The Representative Association of Commissioned Offices (RACO) said resource
deficiencies highlighted in the White Paper on Defence need to be addressed
immediately as potential threats to the nation s security have been clearly
identified.

Speaking as Defence Minister Simon Coveney published the Government document
outlining a series of reforms planned for the vital sector over the next decade,
the frontline group insisted improvements need to take place now.

While welcoming the ministerial focus on the issue, the group said the proposals
will never see the light of day unless the required funding was made available.

The security threat does not arrive on your doorstep when it suits you. It is
the responsibility of the State to provide a real and robust response to
mitigate such threats continually.

You must always be prepared, equipped, trained and tested to deliver these
complex range of military capabilities,  warned RACO secretary general Comdt
Earnan Naughton.

Despite backing a promised policy to properly support armed forces members who
are seriously injured on duty, Comdt Naughton said his association had concerns
about references to Defence Forces  skills shortages and an increase in civilian
officer numbers.

He said military personnel are uniquely qualified to perform all specialist
roles within the Defence Forces in every capacity, without outside help.

The motivation for such an initiative is questionable,  Condt Naughton said.

As part of the white paper, which is only the second ever document of its kind
for the country following a similar report in 2000, the number of women in the
Defence Forces   currently just 6% of all members   will be doubled, while a
commitment has been made not to reduce overall numbers or close more barracks.

The specialist Army Ranger unit will also be extended in addition to a
specialist unit to combat gender-based violence in conflict zones.

While a new training body will be established at the Curragh to act as a
recruitment and employment support scheme for young people from disadvantaged
areas, concerns have been raised over the fact a large number of current
would-be recruits are failing existing fitness tests which include performing
just 20 press-ups in a minute.

At the launch of the document at Dublin Castle yesterday, Mr Coveney said the
conventional threats  previously associated with the Defence Forces such as
conventional warfare, invasion of countries and other matters have now been
overtaken by a new  security environment .

What we have now are issues like mass migration, extremism and fundamentalism,
international terrorism, climate change, international crime, cyber security,
the use of technology to effectively attack a country in different ways.

So what this white paper is about is a detailed, across-government assessment of
the threats likely to affect Ireland over the next 10 to 20 years and then what
we need to do to respond to that comprehensively,  he said.

Asked about funding issues, the Fine Gael minister pointedly noted the plans can
only be implemented if money was made available.

Meanwhile, he called on  the EU as a whole  to address the escalating migrant
crisis on our doorstep in the Mediterranean   despite insisting Ireland was
already taking enough people into this country.

He raised concerns over Hungary  building walls with razor wire to keep migrants
out  while some countries are saying they won t take a single refugee at a time
when  others are taking a generous and open approach .

Air Corps

The Air Corps currently has two long-range Casa CN 235 maritime patrol aircraft,
which entered service in 1994 and operate seven days a week. They provide
surveillance cover for an area of approximately 132,000 square miles, or 16% of
the total EU sea fisheries.

The minister said they are due for replacement in 2019.

The Air Corps also operates seven propeller-powered Pilatus PC-9M aircraft.

They provide a very limited air to air and air to ground combat capacity and
these are due for replacement in 2025. There is no mention in the White Paper of
the Air Corps getting any jet aircraft into the future.

Lack of proper air defence cover was highlighted recently when Russian  Bear
long-range bombers, which can carry a nuclear payload, flew twice into
Irish-controlled airspace and on one occasions forced commercial flights to be
diverted and others to be grounded.

They were chased out of British-controlled airspace by RAF Typhoons.

The Pilatus PC-9M aircraft could neither attain the ceiling or speed to
intercept the Russian bombers, even though they are propeller-powered aircraft
from the Soviet era.

Proper radar capabilities are also lacking in the Air Corps. Mr Coveney said
should additional funding be forthcoming tackling the deficiency would be a
priority.

Navy

It s highly likely the three new navy ships to be ordered will be bigger than
those currently in use. One at least will be equipped to handle helicopters,
with the others large enough to also act as troop-carriers, possibly catering
for a company (120 soldiers.) This would be in line with Minister Coveney s
intention to get the Naval Service more involved in overseas missions,
especially following the success of the current humanitarian mission in the
Mediterranean Sea, where to date both LÉ Eithne and LÉ Niamh have saved more
than 5,000 migrants.

LÉ Eithne has a helicopter landing pad, used by the Air Corps for operations in
the 1980s and 1990s before being discontinued.

She is the largest ship, tonnage-wise in the navy, although 10m shorter than the
newly arrived vessels LÉ Samuel Beckett and LÉ James Joyce.

LÉ William Butler Yeats, due to arrive next spring, will replace the ageing LÉ
Aisling.

The three ships, which will be purchased in the coming years, are likely to
replace LÉ Eithne, LÉ Ciara and LÉ Orla all built in 1984.

Larger ships will give the navy the capability to travel longer distances and
remain at sea during particularly rough weather.

At present some of its smaller ship have to take shelter in bays if weather in
the Atlantic becomes stormy.

Army

The reduction from three brigades to two in 2012 will be maintained.A rapid
deployment force of company-strength (120 troops) will also be maintained for
emergency situations overseas.

The elite Army Ranger Wing (ARW), which was formed in 1969, will be increased
from 100 to 150.

A study is under way to examine what will happen to the current fleet of
Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs). It will identify whether a life- extension
programme, replacement programme or another alternative, is the most cost
effective option.

A small number of new armoured logistic vehicles for overseas missions are to be
purchased.Minister Coveney said in the event of additional funding becoming
available, beyond that required to maintain existing capabilities, additional
APCs and Light Tactical Armoured Vehicles would be purchased in the future.

He said there is need to carry out major building refurbishment at McKee
Barracks and the Curragh Camp. But the cost of carrying out the work cannot be
met from existing funding.Recruitment is ongoing for 350 army personnel at
present. This will bring the strength of the Defence Forces up to the agreed
minimum of 9,500.

Gender issues

Minister Coveney said he was committed to increasing the percentage of women
serving in the Permanent Defence Forces (PDF).

The number of women serving as of 31 December last amounted to 563, which was
just 6.1% of the overall strength of the PDF on that date.

The number of women serving in the Army Reserve and Naval Service Reserve on the
same date was 363. This is 16.8% of the Reserves.

Mr Coveney said the Government is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for
men and women throughout the Defence Forces and to the full participation by
women in all aspects of Defence Forces activities.

He said the Defence Forces have no restrictions as regards the assignment of men
or women to the full range of operational and administrative duties and all
promotions and career courses are open to both genders on merit.

Over the course of the next 10 years further initiatives will be developed to
encourage more women to apply and to increase female participation at all ranks.
This will include a survey to identify any impediments to the advancement of
women, including the impact of the requirements of career courses and overseas
service.service on female retention and advancement.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 27, 2015 Thursday 3:02 AM GMT

Is the Dust Lady's death from cancer proof 9/11 could kill thousands more?
Thousands caught up in terror attacks have been diagnosed with the disease

BYLINE: TOM LEONARD IN NEW YORK FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1475 words



     ·    Marcy Borders became known as the Dust Lady of 9/11 following attacks
     ·    She became caked in ash while fleeing the collapsed World Trade Centre


     ·    The 42-year-old has now died after a year long battle with stomach
          cancer
     ·    She and blamed the condition on the dust she inhaled at Ground Zero


Caked from head to foot in ash and pulverised concrete as she stares aghast at
the camera, she provided one of the most haunting and memorable images of the
9/11 disaster.

Marcy Borders was fleeing the World Trade Center in terror when a photographer
caught the astonishing shot of her.

The 28-year-old Bank of America employee might have passed for a ghost if it
wasn't for the gleam of her necklace and earrings that escaped the toxic coating
of dust caused by the tumbling Twin Towers.

Scroll down for video

Inevitably, she became known as the 'Dust Lady' and her subsequent tragic fate,
sinking into a spiral of depression that led to alcoholism and drug addiction,
became a cautionary tale about the impact that the traumatic events of September
11, 2001, had on those who survived.

On Monday, she died aged 42 after a year-long battle with stomach cancer, which
she and her family blamed on the dust she inhaled during the attack.

Her premature death has opened a festering sore for countless 9/11 rescuers,
local residents and office workers who claim they were poisoned by the air they
breathed at Ground Zero.

Thousands of people who were in the area have been diagnosed with cancer but,
controversially, medical officials have not confirmed any definite link to the
attacks.

Whatever the city authorities and such medical experts said, Miss Borders and
her family never had any doubt that she was as much a victim of Osama Bin
Laden's al-Qaeda terrorists as those who were killed on 9/11 itself.

'My mum fought an amazing battle,' said her daughter Noelle yesterday. 'Not only
is she the "Dust Lady", but she is my hero and she will forever live through
me.'

Marcy's cousin, John Borders, said she had 'unfortunately succumbed to the
diseases that have ridden her body since 9/11. In addition to losing so many
friends, co-workers and colleagues on and after that tragic day... the pains
from yesteryear have found a way to resurface'.

Miss Borders always insisted her cancer - first diagnosed in August 2014, and
for which she had chemotherapy - was a direct consequence of 9/11.

'I definitely believe it because I haven't had any illnesses,' she said last
November. 'How do you go from being healthy to waking up the next day with
cancer?'

She was just four weeks into a new job with the Bank of America on the 81st
floor of the North Tower when it was hit by a hijacked passenger plane at
8.46am.

'Suddenly, boom! The building swayed and I dropped to my knees, thinking the top
part [of the tower] was going to break off and I would see the sky,' she later
recalled.

Ignoring her supervisor's instruction that staff stay calm and remain at their
desks, she panicked and joined hundreds jamming the stairwells. 'When I got into
the lobby, I saw... people with metal in them, glass, their skin peeled off,'
she said.

Having escaped the building and managed to stagger into the street, she heard a
massive explosion as the South Tower collapsed.

'I just saw this dust cloud coming towards us, and I thought once it caught me,
I'd be dead. It was like a whirlwind and I couldn't even see my hand in front of
my face.'

A man grabbed her arm and led her to safety in a nearby building. It was there
that the famous picture of her was taken by news photographer Stan Honda, who
said: 'A woman came in completely covered in grey dust. You could tell she was
nicely dressed for work and for a second she stood in the lobby.'

He took just one shot of her before a police officer moved everyone to a safer
spot.

Following the picture's publication, Miss Borders began to worry she might
become a target for the terrorists who carried out the atrocity.

Suffering from what some say was undiagnosed post-traumatic stress disorder, she
became a paranoid recluse, refusing to leave her flat alone.

'It haunted me every day. My life spiralled out of control,' she said. 'Every
time I saw an aircraft, I panicked. If I saw a man on a building, I was
convinced he was going to shoot me.'

Battling depression, she started drinking heavily. When alcohol wasn't enough,
she turned to drugs - first cocaine and then becoming addicted to its lethal
variant, crack cocaine.

'My life became a garbage can... I was trying to kill myself with drugs, which
was so selfish,' she admitted.

As her weight fell to just five-and-a-half stone, she was deemed unfit to look
after her two young children, and they were sent to live with close relatives.
In April 2011, she went into rehab. Eventually, she became sober, regained
custody of her children and moved back into the home she shared with her
boyfriend.

'The anniversary [of 9/11] gives me no fear,' she said at the time. 'I've got
peace now. I'm not afraid of anything.' That 'peace', however, was tragically
short-lived.

But Marcy Borders was one of many who, although they survived the 9/11 attacks,
believe their lives were destroyed as a result of them.

Fourteen years on, there is growing concern that the 2,606 people who died in
the Twin Towers and the surrounding area were not the only victims al-Qaeda
claimed that day.

It is certainly possible that Miss Borders's cancer was caused by her alcohol
and drug abuse and had no direct link with 9/11.

But it is also possible that it was triggered by the carcinogenic asbestos that
was released into the air from the shattered structure of the World Trade
Center.

Experts say that tiny, razor-sharp particles can easily puncture the stomach
lining if ingested - possibly leading eventually to a cancer developing.

Academics and air pollution experts have described the dust from the collapsed
towers as 'wildly toxic', made up of more than 2,500 contaminants including
glass, lead and mercury.

At 40, Borders was extremely young to be diagnosed with stomach cancer.
According to Cancer Research UK, 95 per cent who are diagnosed with it are aged
55 or older.

Last year, three New York firefighters who worked at Ground Zero on 9/11 died of
cancer on the same day, prompting claims they were killed by the polluted air
they inhaled in the aftermath of the attack.

In 2011, Barack Obama set up a £1.77 billion fund to compensate survivors and
rescuers for health problems related to the attacks. Stomach cancer was one of
several conditions covered by the fund. The legislation passed to set up the
fund was named after James Zadroga, a New York policeman who in 2006 died of
lung disease that was attributed to his involvement in spending 450 hours
working in the rubble.

Initially, the city's health officials argued that 34-year-old Mr Zadroga's
death had nothing to do with 9/11 - perhaps because they feared many
multi-million-dollar lawsuits. They have since softened their stance.

The city's health department now cites research by the New York fire department,
which found that nearly 9,000 firefighters who worked at Ground Zero may be at
greater risk of cancer than colleagues who were not exposed.

A study has also found 'higher than expected' prostate and thyroid cancer rates
among nearly 21,000 rescue and recovery workers who were involved with the 9/11
operation.

However, much to the frustration of survivors, experts say the medical evidence
is still not conclusive. Three years ago, for instance, the most comprehensive
study to date of potential 9/11-related cancers was unclear about the link.

The survey, which involved nearly 56,000 people and compared them to the general
population, suggested possible links with prostate, thyroid and a type of blood
cancer among World Trade Center rescue and recovery workers.

The conclusion was that it was still too early to judge the effects of the
attack, as some cancers take longer to develop.

Meanwhile, New York City's WTC Health Registry has conducted studies that
suggest post-traumatic stress disorder is the most common health effect of 9/11.

It estimates that around a fifth of adults who were directly involved in the
terror attack and its traumatic aftermath have suffered symptoms of
post-traumatic stress disorder - about four times the rate of symptoms in the
general population.

As for Marcy Borders, there is a possible medical link with 9/11. For while
cancer experts say there is no clear proof that links dust with stomach cancer,
they concede there is some evidence it can be caused by asbestos.

Whether she was killed by the toxic drugs and alcohol she resorted to in a bid
to cope with depression, or by carcinogenic asbestos particles, the legacy of
9/11 proved equally fatal.

Her tragic fate is a chilling reminder that the evil men of al-Qaeda know that,
14 years on from 9/11, their horrific atrocity is still claiming new victims.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 29, 2015 Saturday 5:20 PM GMT

Violent sex fiend launched sickening rant about 9/11 terrorist attacks, calling
them a 'joyful day';
Stefan Readenour hid his past to get jobs in Domino's Pizza and Burger King when
he came to the UK

BYLINE: By Jane Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


A violent sex fiend launched a vile internet rant mocking the 9/11 terrorist
attack, calling it a "joyful day".

Vile Stefan Readenour hid his past to get jobs in Domino's Pizza and Burger King
when he came to the UK.

The German-born 29-year-old, who moved to the US when he was adopted as a baby,
was convicted in the US of grooming a 12-year-old child.

His sickening rant was found on an internet message board after he fled America.

He wrote: "I wouldn't live in America if my life depended on it."

"That country gets attacked to (sic) many times," he wrote. "And September 11,
2001 wasn't a sad day for me. It was a joyful happy day for me because I laughed
so hard."

US Justice Department papers classify him as "violent" and he fled to the UK
after he was accused of threatening to kill his male lover in Germany in 2012,
the Daily Record reports.

He worked in a Stirling branch of Domino's, Pizza Hut in Falkirk, Mathiesons
Bakers in Larbert and Caledonian Produce, Bo'ness.

A source said Domino's and Caledonian fired him when they learned of his past.

In addition to grooming a 12-year-old, Readenour was accused of molesting a
10-year-old, but the charges were dropped after the girl changed her statement.

Six years later, he was charged in Tennessee with grooming a victim he thought
was a girl of 15 - but was actually a male detective.

Readenour was charged with solicitation - asking a minor for sex - and with
breaking the terms of his sex offenders' registration by living less than 1,000
feet from a playground, football fields and a children's playground.

He pleaded guilty and was freed because he had already spent six months in jail
awaiting trial - long enough to cover his sentence.

Readenour then left the US and moved to Bamberg in Germany, but then moved on
again after being accused in 2012 of threatening to kill his partner.

He was free to move around Europe because he holds dual German-US nationality.

Readenour settled in England and fathered a child with a woman in Newcastle.

However, he then moved to Scotland where he has worked at Domino's in Stirling
and a Pizza Hut in Falkirk.

Sex offender convicted of grooming children tells lies to find work in Domino's
and Burger King

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      August 29, 2015 Saturday 6:33 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Children of care home worker Trudy Jones say they are
'stuck in a nightmare' in first public interview;
The 51-year-old from Blackwood died in the June 26 terror attack on a crowded
beach in the resort of Sousse

BYLINE: By Sam Tegeltija

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


The four children of a Welsh woman killed in June's terror attack in Tunisia
have spoken publicly for the first time and described how they are "stuck in a
nightmare."

Trudy Jones, 51, a care home worker from Blackwood, was killed when Seifiddine
Rezgui opened fire on a crowded beach in the resort of Sousse, killing 38 people
on June 26.

Her "devastated" relatives paid tribute to "the rock of our family... [who] kept
us all going" in the days after her death and asked for privacy to let them
grieve.

See also: Mourners pay their respects to mother-of-four Trudy Jones at her
funeral

Two months on Tracy's children - Wayne Davis, Gavin Davis, Ryan Gardner and
Danah Birchard - have spoken publicly for the first time at a memorial event for
their mother.

Gavin told the BBC: "She was an amazing person - she'd put everybody before
herself.

"We still haven't come to terms with it all, we still haven't accepted it. I
don't think any of us will ever accept it to be honest with you.

See also: Couple split up after witnessing Tunisia beach massacre as they were
'unable to help each other through it'

"Even with everything that's gone on - from waiting for her to come home after
the event, when she landed in Brize Norton - even then it didn't seem real. It
was horrible looking at a box.

"I think with all the planning and everything we've had to go through we're
constantly busy and I think that's helped us deal with it.

"I don't think it's going to sink in until everything is sorted and quietens
down. It's going to be tough, really tough."

See also: Hero who acted as human shield to save his partner from killer reveals
they only chose to go to Tunisia on toss of a coin

His brother Wayne described the last few months as a "blur".

He said: "We're still waiting for her to come home from holiday.

"It's been horrible. You just wake up in the morning and forget it, then it
comes back to you in the day and it takes your breath away."

See also: Inquest formally opens for Welsh mum killed in Sousse beach massacre

Danah added that they are "stuck in a nightmare".

The family were speaking at the memorial bike ride from Pontllanfraith to
Newbridge.

They added Prime Minister David Cameron had written to them to say a memorial to
Trudy will be erected locally.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday

Egypt denounces "terrorist" attack in Bahrain

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 30 August: Egypt officially condemned the terrorist attack that left a
policeman dead and four others wounded in Karranah village, north of the
Bahraini capital Manama.

In statements Sunday, Egyptian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ahmad Abu-Zayd
reiterated Egypt's stance in support of Bahrain in the face of terrorism,
calling on the international community to enhance cooperation to root out
terrorism.

Abu-Zayd also reaffirmed Cairo's support of all measures taken by the Bahraini
government to protect security and stability of the northern Gulf kingdom.

He offered condolences to the family of the martyr and wished speedy recovery
for the injured.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1624gmt 30 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday

TRAINS GET AIRPORT SECURITY AFTER FRENCH TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: BY MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

LENGTH: 178 words


TRAIN passengers face new security checks after last week's thwarted terrorist
attack in France.

Ministers agreed yesterday that ID checks and baggage searches will be
introduced on international services across Europe.

Police and intelligence agencies will share intelligence on travellers,
including criminal records and journey plans.

The airport-style measures will be put in place everywhere it is necessary' on
railways, France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said last night.

Home Secretary Theresa May, at the summit in Paris, said that the foiled attack
on the Amsterdam to Paris service was a shocking reminder of the threats we all
face.

I reiterated the importance of proactively sharing intelligence across borders;
particularly travel data and criminal records.'

The meeting was held after a gunman opened fire on a packed Amsterdam to Paris
train.

He had an assault rifle and 270 rounds of ammunition but was tackled by three
American tourists and a Briton.

Moroccan, Ayoub El-Khazzani, 26, is to face trial on charges of attempted
murder.

© Mail On Sunday

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 30, 2015 Sunday 12:06 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Heartbroken children of mum killed by beach gunman are
'stuck in nightmare';
Trudy Jones, 51, was one of 38 tourists killed in Sousse by Islamist terrorist
Seifeddine Rezgui back in June

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 163 words


Four heartbroken ­chil­d­ren of a mum killed by the Tunisian beach gunman say
they will never be able to accept her brutal death.

The family of Trudy Jones, 51, feel they are "stuck in a nightmare".

They spoken of their pain for the first time in public ­before a charity fun day
in Trudy's name on Monday, writes Karen Rockett in the Sunday People.

The care home worker, 51, from Blackwood, Caerphilly, was one of 38 tourists
slain in Sousse on June 26 by Islamist terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui.

"We're still waiting for her to come home," said her son Wayne Davis.

His brother Gavin added: "She was an amazing ­person. We still haven't come to
terms with it.

"I don't think any of us will ever ­accept it, to be honest."

The family say PM David Cameron has written to them to say a memorial will be
placed locally.

In pictures - minute's silence for British victims of Tunisia terror attack:

Minute's silence in memory of 30 British victims who passed away during the
Tunisia terror attack

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                August 30, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UVF wants me out but I'm staying until they kill me {{ ~;
ATTACK TERROR GROUP DENIES INVOLVEMENT DAD OF TWO REMAINS DEFIANT AFTER HIS
BELFAST HOME IS PETROL BOMBED

BYLINE: patricia DEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 670 words


A BELFAST man whose home was petrol bombed says the UVF won't stop until he is
dead.

Dad-of-two Brian Gibson told Sunday Life he believes last week's attack on his
Fortuna Street home was the result of a personal fall-out with a top
paramilitary chief.

And he claims the terror group is waging a concerted campaign to either oust him
and his family from south Belfast - or kill him.

But last night the UVF denied any involvement in the attack, and accused the
45-year-old of attempting to start a "feud" between rival loyalists.

Defiant Mr Gibson described the allegations as "nonsense" telling Sunday Life:
"They want me out, but I won't be going. I'm staying here until they kill me."

BLASTED Mr Gibson was with his 10-year-old autistic daughter in the house when
the device blasted through the living room window of his terraced home on
Wednesday morning.

It is understood the pair only escaped serious injury thanks to the double
glazing withstanding the impact.

The 45-year-old says the attack came after a long line of smears and threats
against him and his family.

"Over the last two-and-a-halfyears I've had about 15 death threats from the UVF.

"My elderly mother has been threatened, and they've tried to kill my brother.

"Now they have tried to kill me and my 10-year-old child.

"They've set up false Facebook pages full of lies, put posters about me and my
family around the Village, and sprayed graffiti about me outside my partner's
work.

"They've accused me of being a tout, an informer. They are pure poison."

He added: "On Thursday I received yet another death threat delivered by police,
from the boys in the intelligence room, that me and my brother were going to be
murdered by loyalist paramilitaries.

"Now we know it's not the UDA, so who does that leave?" The UVF-linked
Progressive Unionist Party last night issued a statement condemning the attack
and added: "Regardless of the circumstances surrounding these events there is no
place for violence or intimidation in our communities. Such activity creates
fear, destroys trust and undermines the rule of law and order. It is totally
unacceptable."

On Friday senior paramilitary figures contacted Sunday Life to deny the UVF's
involvement in the attack.

One said: "The UVF did not attack Brian Gibson's home, and we are fed up with
the lies being told about the organisation.

"In our view there are elements in south Belfast who, for a number of years,
have been intent on igniting a feud between loyalists. It won't work."

But Mr Gibson said be believed Monday night's attack was sanctioned at the
highest level.

"I believe they sanctioned it and they are laying the ground work for me to be
killed.

"This is over a gang of Russian drug dealers who weren't welcome in this area.
And the UVF didn't like that.

"I won't be hitting back, we've got the whole community support, Sandy Row,
people from the Village. And see this allegation of trying to start a feud? Have
any of them been attacked? "Have any of them got death threats? No."

DISGUSTED He added: "The bottom line is they almost killed my daughter, does it
stop now? "I'm staying here until they kill me. They know their name is mud.
Local people here are fed up with them, they are disgusted. I've had UVF men,
ex-UVF men come to me and say they are disgusted."

South Belfast Alliance MLA Anna Lo condemned the attack and said it would have
been absolutely "petrifying" for the victims.

She said: "It appears to be simply luck that this attack did not lead to serious
injury or even death, but it still would have been petrifying for this man and
his daughter.

"Attacks like this create fear and hark back to a time people want to leave
behind.

"No one can even attempt to justify an attack like this. The person behind this
is clearly a dangerous individual.

UUP MLA Michael McGimpsey said: "The fact that there has been a subsequent
threat made against the victim of the petrol bombing, and that there are claims
of paramilitary involvement only compounds the situation.

"This threat should be lifted immediately."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Brian Gibson outside his home and (right) talking to Patricia
DevlinDEATH THREATS: Brian Gibson claims the UVF are waging a campaign to oust
him from south Belfast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      August 31, 2015 Monday 11:03 AM GMT

Phantom review - India's Jack Bauer blows diplomacy out of the water;
Kabir Khan's pacy film about an army officer sent to flush out the killers of
the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks is a reckless yet revealing piece of pulp fiction

BYLINE: Mike McCahill

SECTION: FILM

LENGTH: 586 words


Star Rating: 3 stars

Just as 9/11 gave rise, after an appropriate mourning period, to a decade of
soul- and cave-searching in American cinema, so the spectre of the 26/11 attacks
on Mumbai in 2008 seems likely to hover over Indian cinema for the foreseeable
future. Already we've had 2013's Greengrassy docudrama The Attacks of 26/11, the
veteran Ram Gopal Varma's sober recounting of these events from the perspective
of Rakesh Maria, the Mumbai chief of police. There now arrives Phantom, Kabir
Khan's adaptation of Hussain Zaidi's speculative fiction Mumbai Avengers, which
owes more to the 24/Homeland school of counterterrorism, vacillating as it does
between pulpy pertinence and arrant wish-fulfilment.

Objections have already been lodged by both Médecins Sans Frontières and the
suspected Pakistani terrorist Hafiz Saeed, suggesting action specialist Khan is
operating on a broad spectrum of offence. Yet this pacy film propels us through
its problematic patches, and also proves unexpectedly telling as to how insecure
India feels over the fact the attack's masterminds remain at large, from the
moment a policy wonk decries the lack of an official response: "All we do is
stop playing cricket." Enter the Jack Bauer-like Daniyal Khan (Saif Ali Khan), a
disgraced army officer sent on a hushed-up mission to flush the killers out,
deploying methods that really aren't cricket.

As Daniyal barrels around - from the Oval via the Middle East to a final date
with destiny in Pakistani waters - he gathers an aid worker sidekick (Katrina
Kaif), and the tension that exists between these two represents a split that
surely exists within Indian intelligence ranks: she urging caution,
data-collection and the need to play the long game, he dashing around
terminating, wherever possible, with extreme prejudice. You'll just have to
overlook the fact that as shadow operatives go, the well-groomed Saif and the
ever-lipglossed Kaif form a couple as inconspicuous as the Kardashian Wests;
their movements don't demand surveillance so much as a Vanity Fair spread.

Jolting dashes of realpolitik continue to permeate the action: the heads of a
Pakistan-based terror organisation opt to meet Daniyal in Syria, reasoning that
nobody will notice another dead body there. Yet the director is far more adept
at constructing taut assassination set-pieces than he is at diplomacy: the
incendiary editorial on Pakistan is handled with rather less than due diligence.
The film does something very dubious with Kaif's character, who is introduced
flashing her "Medicine International" credentials as a voice of reason: after
key scenes go missing around the intermission, she's suddenly - like so many
characters in 24 - transformed into a moist-eyed apologist for the hero's
bloodier responses. You can see why MSF would be irked.

They won't be the only ones, for Phantom displays that unique pulp mix of motion
and emotion that is both compelling and revealing, but also deeply discomfiting
to encounter. This relentless, reckless, wounded-bull-in-a-china-shop production
is fuelled by a violence you can see in the leading man's eyes and feel in its
whiplash crosscuts, all of it directed towards getting hold of the attackers,
and not necessarily bringing them to justice. (With lyrics like "I couldn't
handle this atrocity of love," even the songs sound like battle cries.) That
violence gives Khan's film its undeniable grip and punch - but we might pause to
consider whether this region hasn't seen and heard enough of it already.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 31, 2015 Monday 7:30 AM GMT

Airport-style train checks are 'security theatre and useless against terror
attacks';
European ministers said they will step up security on in the European rail
network, with tougher ID checks and baggage searches and more armed patrols and
spot checks, after the thwarted gun attack on a French train last week.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 511 words


Strict security and airline-style checks at stations for international train
journeys would not defeat the threat from terrorists and would be purely
"security theatre" by politicians, a rail travel expert has said.

Determined attackers would easily be able to evade the precautions and are no
more likely to target international trains than domestic services.

European ministers said they will step up security on in the European rail
network, with tougher ID checks and baggage searches and more armed patrols and
spot checks on international journeys, <em class="bold">after the thwarted gun
attack on a French train last week.<em class="bold" />

There have been some calls for airline-style security scans and metal detectors
to prevent further attacks.

Mark Smith, an expert on international rail travel who was Charing Cross station
manager during the IRA bomb threat, said ministers must not make knee-jerk
responses that would have little effect.

Tightening security on trains was futile he said, because the threat was against
all public spaces.

He said: "It could have happened in a coffee shop, it could have happened
anywhere."

He said: "We're looking at more 'security theatre' to placate the 'I'm shocked,
something must be done' brigade. I just hope this necessary charade can be kept
to a minimum."

He went on: "The reality of security is that the real fight goes on behind the
scenes. The real challenge is how countries exchange security information."

Ministers from eight EU countries, including Britain, agreed tougher measures a
week after the attack on the Amsterdam-Paris express.                      A
British IT consultant and three American tourists overpowered Ayoub el-Khazzani
after he managed to board the train armed with a Kalashnikov assault rifle, a
Luger handgun, 270 rounds of ammunition and a bottle of petrol, without being
challenged.

Mr Smith said there was little point protecting international trains and not
domestic trains, and tightening security on the entire network would be "totally
impractical" because of the numbers of passengers and stations.

Ministers said there would be more joint police patrols in trains, rail tickets
could show passengers' names and police will be able to ask for identity papers
during spot checks even when trains are crossing borders where passport controls
have been abolished under the Schengen agreement.

They stopped short of recommending the systematic introduction of scanners and
baggage X-rays at passenger terminals, but did not rule out installing more
metal detectors at key points.

David Sidebottom, passenger director at the independent watchdog Transport
Focus, said: "Passengers tell us that the best deterrent against crime is a
visible staff and police presence on trains and at stations.

"They will welcome measures which increase their personal security but won't
want to see their journey unnecessarily delayed."

Passengers boarding Eurostar trains to Britain from Paris and Brussels already
face airport-style security checks.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

Afghan intelligence service arrests perpetrators of recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 498 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 31 August

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security (NDS) has arrested 30 militants
of the Haqqani network and Peshawar council in Kabul city. It reported that the
terrorists planned to attack the presidential office, National Defence Ministry,
Interior Ministry and US embassy in Kabul. Some sources from NDS told Tolo News
that some explosives had been seized from the terrorists and these explosives
can only be made or purchased by international military bodies. It is reported
that these terrorists carried out the recent terrorist attacks in the Shah
Shahid and Microrayon areas.

[Correspondent] They wanted to kill many people, but they were arrested before
they could carry out their evil goal.

[Asrar Ahmad, a commander of Haqqani network in Kabul, captioned, with his face
blurred] I was sentenced to six years in jail and spent two years and two months
in jail and then I was released. I spent some time at home and then opened a
shop in the Sadre area of Peshawar [Pakistan]. I spent some time there and then
Qari Asaq asked me a year ago to cooperate with them in Kabul Province.

[Hakmatollah, Taleban's nominal district chief for Dehsabz, Kabul, captioned,
with blurred face in Pashto] Before assuming the job, another person known as
Maulawi Rohollah was appointed the Dehsabz [Haqqani] district chief, but later
on, I was appointed to the post, because I am a native of this district.

[Correspondent] The security forces seized explosives called RDX from these
terrorists loaded in two trucks during the operation on the Kabul-Paktia
highway. Security bodies said that only international military bodies could make
or purchase RDX and terrorist groups cannot have this material without help of
international military bodies. These militants carried out the attacks on
parliament, Microrayon and Kabul airport. A major terrorist attack took place in
this area at the beginning of last week. The photos printed on these papers
belong to perpetrators of these attacks. They planned to carry out similar
terrorist attacks in Kabul city, but the security forces arrested them. The
residents of Microrayon still remember the dreadful attack and want these
terrorists to be punished severally, but refrained from talking to camera.

[Unidentified voice] They should be executed so that other terrorists will not
dare to enter Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] Sayedajaan is a driver who has suffered several injuries in the
latest attack in the Microrayon area. He wants these terrorists to be executed.

[Sayedajaan, a young man] The government should punish them severally so that
others will learn a lesson.

[Correspondent] This is the biggest operation of the Afghan security forces in
recent weeks. Now, the residents of Kabul city feel safer as these terrorists
could carry out major attacks in various parts of the city.

[Video shows interviews; photos; some affected areas of Kabul city]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 31 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

Turkey offers reward for informants on possible terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 460 words


Text of report in English by website of Turkish pro-secular, mass-circulation
daily Hurriyet on 1 September

People who denounce the perpetrators of acts of terrorism could be awarded up to
4 million Turkish Liras, according to a new regulation that was published in the
Official Gazette.

People who inform on suspects whose acts fall within the anti-terror law could
be awarded with various amounts of money totalling up to 4 million liras as part
of an Interior Ministry regulation that went into effect on Aug. 31.

Both Turkish citizens and foreigners will be eligible to receive the money if
they help catch or inform on the identities or locations of perpetrators of
terror acts, provided they do not participate in committing the act.

The regulation aims to increase the efficiency in apprehending terror suspects.

The awards will be decided upon by an Award Commission that will be headed and
led by the Interior Ministry deputy undersecretary, and will include three
members each from the Police Department and the Gendarmerie Forces. The six
members from the security forces will be selected from among high-ranking
officers who have previously discharged duties at anti-terror branches.

The amount of money that will be given to informants will vary depending on the
information given, the crime and the suspect in question.

The amount cannot exceed 200,000 liras for each piece of information or crime
reported. However, the amount can be increased up to 20 times the upper limit -4
million liras -if the information pertains to a suspect who is a senior-level
administrator in a terrorist organization or if the denunciation pertains to a
criminal act that would have a nationwide effect. Awards greater than 200,000
liras may be bestowed upon a suggestion by the Award Commission and the approval
of the Interior Ministry.

If one person gives information on multiple acts or people, the award for each
of these denunciations will be evaluated separately by the commission and will
be subject to separate awards, as long as the information is deemed necessary by
the commission.

While people need to request that they be given an award for the information,
their identities will be kept confidential.

Recipients cannot be current or former personnel of the Turkish security forces
or intelligence services, or a civil servant which has been engaged in
anti-terror operations.

Village guards, as long as they are not engaged in terror acts, can receive the
award in line with the regulation.

The awards and necessary expenses will be paid from an allowance granted to the
Interior Ministry, while the awards will be given to people by governor's
offices as defined by the commission.

August/31/2015

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 1 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'My reaction was I should not have dressed like that.. but it was the wrong
one';
Presenter Bibi talks about blaming herself for sex attack terror

BYLINE: KATHY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 589 words


CHAT show queen Bibi Baskin yesterday opened up about blaming herself for being
sexually assaulted several years ago.

Journalist Fiona Looney also revealed she was attacked around 30 years ago and
was shamed by others into thinking the horror was her fault because she had been
drinking and was wearing a short skirt.

The pair were on TV3's Midday programme discussing the controversial comments
rocker Chrissie Hynde made to a Sunday newspaper, where she blamed herself for
being sexually assaulted by a gang member when she was 21.

Former daytime TV legend Bibi spoke about being molested while she was living in
India.

She said: "I haven't said this before. An incident happened to me in India a
couple of years ago.

"It was dark and maybe 8pm. I was not in Indian dress because I was with a mate
from Ireland. I dressed in Western dress.

"So I'm walking along this part of the city where street light is dim and this
man just grabbed my boob."

The broadcaster admitted she instinctively felt responsible for the terrifying
incident.

She said: "My immediate reaction was, I shouldn't have dressed like this. I
think that's the wrong reaction but I have to admit it was my reaction in that
moment."

Mother-of-three Fiona also shared her own harrowing experience of being attacked
during her college days.

She said: "I've never spoken about this. I was sexually assaulted about 25 or 30
years ago.

"I had been drinking. I was drunk. My guard was down. I was wearing a short
skirt. It was awful. At the time it was the worst thing that had ever happened
to me.

"It was dreadful. But afterwards, the amount of people, and I hate to say this,
mainly women, who said, 'Yeah but your skirt was really short and you were quite
drunk'.

"I'm sorry, how is that my fault that a man forced me down and pulled my legs
apart? How is that my fault because of what I was wearing?"

Furious Fiona said although she never blamed herself for the attack, the
judgement of those she confided in prevented her from reporting it to gardai.

She added: "I was quite dismayed at how many people said, 'Well, what did you
expect? You'd been dressed like that, you had been up all night drinking, for
God's sake what did you expect?'

"And maybe that's why I didn't report it actually."

Fiona and Bibi discussed The Pretenders' frontwoman comments about sexual
assault along with host Elaine Crowley, author Caroline Grace Cassidy and
actress Leigh Arnold. Chrissie, 63, said: "You can't f*** about with people who
wear '  Heart Rape' and 'On Your Knees' badges...

You can't paint yourself into a corner and then say whose brush is this? "You
have to take responsibility. If you play with fire you get burnt.

"If I'm walking around very modestly dressed and keeping to myself and someone
attacks me, then I'd say that's his fault.

"But if I'm putting it about and being provocative, then you are enticing
someone who's already unhinged - don't do that."

Ellen O'Malley Dunlop from the Dublin Rape Crisis Centre said victim-blaming is
still rife.

She added: "The attitude is still there and women and men who are victims buy
into it and immediately they blame themselves when something like this happens.

"When they come and get the support they need they realise that they would of
course never put themselves in the way of getting attacked in that way."

She urged anyone who is the victim of an assault to phone the Dublin Rape Crisis
Centre Helpline on 1800 77 88 88.

news@irishmirror.ie

I was quite dismayed at people who said, 'Well what did you expect?' FIONA
LOONEY TV3 MIDDAY YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HONEST CHAT Fiona Looney and Bibi Baskin on Midday yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 1, 2015 Tuesday 3:23 PM GMT

Thai police arrest the man they say is behind the deadly Bangkok bombing which
claimed 20 lives... and link him to second terror attack

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words



     ·    Second suspect was arrested on border with Cambodia, taken to Bangkok
     ·    Blast at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok killed 20 and injured more than
          100
     ·    Police issued an arrest warrant for Thai woman and foreign man
          yesterday


Thai police have released an image of the foreign suspect they arrested for
allegedly playing a 'key role' in the country's deadliest ever bomb attack.

Thailand's prime minister said the man, who was seen wearing a baseball cap and
sunglasses today, was the main suspect in the August 17 bombing.

Police would not say if he was the same suspect caught leaving a bag at the site
of the blast on CCTV, but said he was involved in a second, smaller explosion
the next day.

He was arrested in Sa Kaeo province, on the border with Cambodia, and has been
taken to Bangkok for questioning. The police have issued arrest warrants for
three more foreign male suspects.

The blast at a Hindu shrine in Bangkok killed 20 - including 17 foreigners - and
injured more than 100.

Scroll down for video

Television footage of the suspect showed a thin man with a short moustache who
wore a baseball cap and sunglasses.

Officers issued two new arrest warrants and released images of a Thai woman and
a foreign man yesterday after finding a remote-controlled car 'detonator' in an
apartment raid.

It is unclear whether the man in his 40s, whose nationality is unknown, is the
same man who was arrested today.

The apartment in Min Buri district was rented by a Thai woman identified as
Wanna Suansun, 26, police spokesman Prawut Thawornsiri said.

He added that the police found 'bomb-making materials' such as gunpowder,
'fertiliser which can be used as explosive powder when mixed with other
substances' and a remote-controlled car whose controller 'can be used as a
detonator'.

They also found nuts and bolts, small light bulbs and digital watches, among
other small objects.

Police released a sketch of the man - who has short brown hair and light facial
hair - who is believed to have lived in the apartment.

The arrest came after security forces arrested a first foreign suspect in
weekend raids on the outskirts of Bangkok, in which they also found explosives.

Police found ten fake passports and bomb-making materials in the house on
Saturday.

The man's passport suggested he was a Turkish national called Adem Karadag but
the police believe the document is fake and his real identity is still unknown.

National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said that the suspect looked like
'the one we are looking for', and he has since been charged with possessing
illegal explosives.

Police confirmed he was not the suspected bomber in the wanted poster - rather
someone who was part of the bomber's close network.

Yesterday, it emerged the police handed a £55,000 for information leading to the
arrest of suspects to themselves - after bosses said staff had 'done their job'.

Thai police have come under criticism for their handling of the investigation
and 22 officers have been transferred from their posts for negligence.

Six of the 22 were immigration officers from Sa Kaeo, while the others worked in
the Bangkok districts where the security forces conducted the weekend raids.

Police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said he transferred the immigration officers
because foreigners had been able to enter Thailand illegally in Sa Kaeo.

He said: 'That was my decision. I think that when a foreigner is able to
illegally enter Thailand without proper scrutiny... I think those officers
should be transferred.'

Speculation has centred on sympathisers of Uighur Muslims, opponents of the
government, southern ethnic Malay rebels and foreign extremists.

Thailand drew international outrage in July when it forcibly repatriated more
than 100 Uighurs to China.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 1, 2015 Tuesday 1:23 PM GMT

Thai police arrest the man they say is behind the deadly Bangkok bombing which
claimed 20 lives... and link him to second terror attack

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words



     ·    Second suspect was arrested on border with Cambodia, taken to Bangkok
     ·    Blast at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok killed 20 and injured more than
          100
     ·    He played 'key role' in the attack and a second, smaller explosion
          next day
     ·    Police issued an arrest warrant for Thai woman and foreign man
          yesterday


Thai police have released an image of the foreign suspect they arrested for
playing a 'key role' in the country's deadliest ever bomb attack.

Thailand's prime minister said the man, who was seen wearing a baseball cap and
sunglasses today, was the main suspect in the August 17 bombing.

Police would not say if he was the same suspect caught leaving a bag at the site
of the blast on CCTV, but said he was involved in a second, smaller explosion
the next day.

He was arrested in Sa Kaeo province, on the border with Cambodia, and has been
taken to Bangkok for questioning. The police have issued arrest warrants for
three more foreign male suspects.

The blast at a Hindu shrine in Bangkok killed 20 - including 17 foreigners - and
injured more than 100.

Scroll down for video

Television footage of the suspect showed a thin man with a short moustache who
wore a baseball cap and sunglasses.

Officers issued two new arrest warrants and released images of a Thai woman and
a foreign man yesterday after finding a remote-controlled car 'detonator' in an
apartment raid.

It is unclear whether the man in his 40s, whose nationality is unknown, is the
same man who was arrested today.

The apartment in Min Buri district was rented by a Thai woman identified as
Wanna Suansun, 26, police spokesman Prawut Thawornsiri said.

He added that the police found 'bomb-making materials' such as gunpowder,
'fertiliser which can be used as explosive powder when mixed with other
substances' and a remote-controlled car whose controller 'can be used as a
detonator'.

They also found nuts and bolts, small light bulbs and digital watches, among
other small objects.

Police released a sketch of the man - who has short brown hair and light facial
hair - who is believed to have lived in the apartment.

The arrest came after security forces arrested a first foreign suspect in
weekend raids on the outskirts of Bangkok, in which they also found explosives.

Police found ten fake passports and bomb-making materials in the house on
Saturday.

The man's passport suggested he was a Turkish national called Adem Karadag but
the police believe the document is fake and his real identity is still unknown.

National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said that the suspect looked like
'the one we are looking for', and he has since been charged with possessing
illegal explosives.

Police confirmed he was not the suspected bomber in the wanted poster - rather
someone who was part of the bomber's close network.

Yesterday, it emerged the police handed a £55,000 for information leading to the
arrest of suspects to themselves - after bosses said staff had 'done their job'.

Thai police have come under criticism for their handling of the investigation
and 22 officers have been transferred from their posts for negligence.

Six of the 22 were immigration officers from Sa Kaeo, while the others worked in
the Bangkok districts where the security forces conducted the weekend raids.

Police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said he transferred the immigration officers
because foreigners had been able to enter Thailand illegally in Sa Kaeo.

He said: 'That was my decision. I think that when a foreigner is able to
illegally enter Thailand without proper scrutiny... I think those officers
should be transferred.'

Speculation has centred on sympathisers of Uighur Muslims, opponents of the
government, southern ethnic Malay rebels and foreign extremists.

Thailand drew international outrage in July when it forcibly repatriated more
than 100 Uighurs to China.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 1, 2015 Tuesday 9:25 AM GMT

Tunisia beach hero who used his body as a human shield to save his girlfriend
during terror attack stays in the UK for his summer holiday

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 740 words



     ·    Matthew James, 30, was shot three times during the Tunisia terror
          attack
     ·    He acted as a human shield and saved his girlfriend Saera Wilson, 26
     ·    Mr James is back in the UK and continuing his recovering from his
          injuries
     ·    Returned to beach for first time since the attack on a family trip to
          Wales


An engineer who used his body as a human shield to save his girlfriend from a
hail of bullets during the Tunisia terror attack has taken his family to the
beach for the first time since the atrocity.

Matthew James, 30, is still recovering from his wounds after being shot three
times by an ISIS gunman while saving 26-year-old Saera Wilson, while the pair
were on holiday in Sousse in June.

But Mr James, from Trehafod near Pontypridd in South Wales, had promised to take
Miss Wilson and their two children on a summer holiday despite his injuries.

So they swapped the searing heat of Tunisia for a family trip to the Welsh
seaside town of Tenby - and he says he couldn't be happier.

Mr James explained: 'It was very strange stepping on to a sandy beach again -
all the memories of the Tunisia beach massacre came flooding back.

'Saera and I were very anxious at first but we soon managed to relax and let the
children play. I realised we were in our own country and on out own territory.

'Of course we don't have the hot weather and sunshine that we enjoyed in
Tunisia. It rained one day and it was cloudy but we did enjoy a few sunny days.

'Feeling safe after what happened was our top priority. I am still recovering
from my injuries but I know I am very lucky to be alive.

'I do wonder if I will ever be able to completely relax again on a foreign
beach; it will certainly take a long time. What happened in Tunisia will stay
with Saera and I forever.'

The couple had left their two children Tegan, nine and son Cadem 16 months, at
home for the first time when they set off for Tunisia.

They were staying at the five-star all inclusive Imperial Marhaba hotel in
Sousse with its own private beach when Islamic State-trained terrorist
Seifeddine Rezgui struck killing 38 people.

A total of 30 British tourists died in the massarce, the worst terror attack on
Britons since the 7/7 London bombings.

Mr James added: 'We couldn't decide between Egypt and Tunisia so we tossed a
coin - tails was Tunisia and heads for Egypt. It came up tails and that's how we
ended up in Sousse.

'We'd been in Tunisia for six days when the attack happened. We'd gone down to
the beach at around 11.30am that day.

'I remember the beach had been packed with tourists but we luckily spotted two
sunbeds at the end of the beach that were free.

'It was minutes later that we heard some loud bangs. We both thought it was a
firecracker set off by entertainment staff at the hotel as some kind of game.

'At first it didn't register with us what was happening - we thought it was some
sort of game. We looked around to see what was going on. Then suddenly this man
was pointing a gun directly at Saera.

'I flung myself on top of her and pushed her to the ground out of the line of
fire. Then I heard a burst of gunshots. It was terrifying as I realised this
wasn't a game - there was someone shooting real bullets and murdering people.

'Moments later when the bullet shots had subsided I realised I had been shot. I
had been shot in my stomach and there was a huge gaping hole and I was covered
in blood.

'I really believed I was going to die on that beach. I told Saera she had to run
and save herself because our kids needed one of us to survive.'

Badly-injured, Mr James scrambled off the beach in search of help. He was
eventually take to hospital and underwent life-saving surgery. Within 36 hours
the couple were flown home by private jet with onboard medics.

He said: 'I had been shot three times - one bullet through my stomach, another
lodged in my chest just above my heart and a third went clean through my upper
left arm.'

'When we got up in the air in the jet I just kept asking where we were. As soon
as they said we were flying over British soil I thought 'Oh my God, we're home'.

'I tell everyone I am the luckiest unlucky person on the planet. One of the
bullets only missed my heart by millimetres.

'I may be in constant pain and may need more operations but it's better than
being in a body bag.'

While Miss Wilson added: 'He is my hero for sure. He saved my life that day. I
love the beaches in Tenby - I've been coming here since I was a little girl and
have so many good memories.'

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Couple enjoy first family holiday since Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Wales News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 688 words


A BRAVE hero who used his body as a human shield to save his fiancée from a
gunman in Tunisia has taken his family on their first holiday since that fateful
day.

Matthew James, 30, from Pontypridd, is still recovering from his wounds since
taking three bullets, when the terrorist opened fire at Sousse in June.

But brave Matthew kept his promise to take fiancée Saera Wilson, 26, and their
two children on a summer holiday to Tenby despite his injuries and memories of
the massacre.

Gas engineer Matthew said: "It was very strange stepping onto a sandy beach
again - all the memories of the Tunisia beach massacre came flooding back.

"Saera and I were very anxious at first but we soon managed to relax and let the
children play. I realised we were in our own country and on our own territory.

"Of course we don't have the hot weather and sunshine that we enjoyed in
Tunisia. It rained one day and it was cloudy but we did enjoy a few sunny days.

"Feeling safe after what happened was our top priority. I am still recovering
from my injuries but I know I am very lucky to be alive.

"I do wonder if I will ever be able to completely relax again on a foreign beach
again; it will certainly take a long time. What happened in Tunisia will stay
with Saera and I forever.

"So many people were murdered that day and we count our blessings to still be
here alive - together.

"We would like to go abroad again but maybe somewhere that feels safer like
Hawaii or the Caribbean. We will just have to wait and see.

"For now, we are just enjoying the safety of British beaches which are lovely."

The couple had left their two children Tegan, nine, and son Caden, 16 months, at
home for the first time when they set off for Tunisia.

Matthew and Saera had stayed in the five-star allinclusive Imperial Marhaba
hotel with its own private beach when the terrorist struck - killing 38 people.

Matthew said: "We couldn't decide between Egypt and Tunisia so we tossed a coin
- tails was Tunisia and heads for Egypt.

"It came up tails and that's how we ended up in Sousse.

"We'd been in Tunisia for six days when the attack happened. We'd gone down to
the beach at around 11.30am that day.

"I remember the beach had been packed with tourists but we spotted two sunbeds
at the end of the beach that were free.

"It was minutes later that we heard some loud bangs. We both thought it was a
firecracker set off by entertainment staff at the hotel as some kind of game.

"At first it didn't register with us what was happening - we thought it was some
sort of game. We looked around to see what was going on.

"Then suddenly this man was pointing a gun directly at Saera.

"I flung myself on top of her and pushed her to the ground out of the line of
fire. Then I heard a burst of gunshots. It was terrifying as I realised this
wasn't a game - there was someone shooting real bullets and murdering people.

"Moments later when the bullet shots had subsided I realised I had been shot.

"I had been shot in my stomach and there was a huge gaping hole and I was
covered in blood.

"I really believed I was going to die on that beach. I told Saera she had to run
and save herself because our kids needed one of us to survive."

Badly-injured Matthew scrambled off the beach in search of help. He was
eventually take to hospital and underwent life-saving surgery.

He said: "I had been shot three times - one bullet through my stomach, another
lodged in my chest just above my heart and a third went clean through my upper
left arm."

Within 36 hours Matthew and Saera were flown home by private jet with onboard
medics.

He said: "When we got up in the air in the jet I just kept asking where we were.
As soon as they said we were flying over British soil I thought 'Oh my God,
we're home.' .

"I tell everyone I am the luckiest unlucky person on the planet. One of the
bullets only missed his heart by millimetres. I may be in constant pain and may
need more operations but it's better than being in a body bag."

Fiancée Saera says: "He is my hero for sure. He saved my life that day. I love
the beaches in Tenby - I've been coming here since I was a little girl and have
so many good memories."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Matthew James, his fiancee Saera Wilson and their children Tegan and
Kaden on their ¦first family holiday since the couple were caught up in the
Tunisia terror attack MATTHEW HORWOOD/WALES NEWS SERVICE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Syrian student dies in "terrorist mortar attack" on Damascus faculty

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, 2 September: A female university student was killed on Tuesday [1
September] in an attack with a mortar shell launched by terrorists on the
Faculty of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering at Damascus University.

A Police source told SANA reporter that the shell fell inside the Mechanical and
Electrical Engineering Faculty in the industrial Zone Neighbourhood, leaving one
female university student dead and six others colleagues wounded.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0141 gmt 2 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Lone wolf attackers "third generation of terrorists" Saudi paper

LENGTH: 3074 words


Text of report by Dr Yusuf Bin-Ahmad al-Rumayh, entitled: "The lone wolves are
the third generation of terrorists", published by Saudi newspaper Al-Jazirah
website on 1 September

Undoubtedly, many countries, including our country, may God protect it, have
witnessed a number of terrorist incidents over the past two decades. As a close
follower of these incidents, I found out that the tactics of the terrorist cells
have developed and changed. In the past, the terrorist and criminal
organizations used to follow a hierarchical cell approach in which the orders
come clearly from the commander or amir of the cell to the members, which showed
the strength of the terrorist cells and their vitality, and by this they are
similar to the smuggling and drug cells with a difference.

With the pressure by the security services in most world countries, the
terrorist cells have changed in their orders from the hierarchal to the cluster
approach, which has the form of small independent cells that receive general
instructions and method from the mother organization and carry out criminal and
terrorist operations in the name of, and at the instructions and according to
the method of the mother cell.

The cluster cell is comprised of the amir of the cell who is blindly obeyed by a
number of workers or cadres, and then as a result of the security and social
pressure and due to the arrest of many and the killing of some of the working
cadres in the cluster cells, they changed into lone cells, which the terrorism
organizations such as Al-Qa'idah and DA'ISH [Arabic acronym of Islamic State
(IS, also known as ISIL, ISIS] called lone wolves. The lone wolves term means
usually a very small cell that is of no more than three persons who are blood
relatives such as the brothers, cousins, husbands, wives, etc. The reason of
this phenomenon is due to the security pressure, setbacks, and retreats from
which the terrorist cells suffered internationally and domestically, which led
them to follow this new approach to preserve what is left of reputation for the
cell and the mother organization. This cell carries out terrorist actions
without receiving the approval or even without the knowledge of the mother
organization, but it follows this deviant bloody terrorist approach. The plan
here is summed up in the idea that every volunteer "should stand as an army of
one man." Hence, the experts say that this is the new conflict which is facing
the security forces around the globe.

This new approach by Al-Qa'idah and IS and others, which is now encouraging the
individual terrorist operations, will lead the security authorities around the
world to review their strategy in fighting this type of new terrorism because
the development of the nature of the cells and form of recruitment are a signal
of a serious transformation in the outfit and objectives of the terrorists since
the issue is no longer restricted to recruiting the groups which are uneducated
or which are socially fragile, but it includes groups that are of high level and
technical education such as engineers or those who have scientific
specializations to use their expertise, particularly in the electronic
engineering, chemistry, and physics, which enabled changing the planning
strategy, starting with changing the recruitment horizons towards the internet,
and also selecting the targets and ensuring more secrecy and effectiveness in
the movement and preparation for the operations.

The lonely wolves term is one of the new terrorist terms to refer to the
individuals who sympathize with the extremist organizations such as Al-Qa'idah
and IS and who may carry out operations that are described as violent without
having direct link to these terrorist organizations; therefore, the security
services around the world are having the concern about what they call "the lone
wolves," who represent cases of individuals who usually sympathize with the
extremist organization and carry out terrorist operations. The lone wolves is a
term that the terrorist groups use to refer to a tactic they employ when they
become under strict watch and when tightening on them becomes so strong, which
makes it difficult for them to work in an organized collective way in light of
the strength of the state and the alertness of its security services. The tactic
of the lone wolves or the individual terrorism is considered the last stage to
which the terrorist groups reach in their conflict with the security services.
In other words, it is the last resort of these organizations. These groups,
while using the term of wolves fully ignore the fact that they clearly admit
that they are not groups of human beings and that they are a mere bunch of
fierce wolves and a clique of blood thirsty persons who love to shed blood and
kill, and that they do not deserve mercy or pity. These very small groups or
individuals represent a small bunch of takfiris [ones who holds other Muslims to
be infidels]] who adopt the ideology of Al-Qa'idah and IS, but they are not
affiliated with the mother organization from the organizational perspective, and
they have learned how to manufacture hand grenades and use weapons by following
some takfiri forums and terrorist websites in the internet. Furthermore, they
follow the ideas of Al-Qa'idah and IS to confuse the security agencies by
dividing the terrorist takfiri group into small cluster cells to carry out
attacks under various names, which makes it difficult to monitor or infiltrate
them by the security authorities.

The term "lone wolves" had first been used in the 1990's after it was used by
the two American extremists Alex Curtis and Tom Metzger, who promoted the idea
of the superiority of the white race over other races and spoke about the
importance of its hegemony over the economy and politics in the world. Metzgar
called for underground activities by individuals or small cells that include
lone combat actions against the government or other targets and attribute them
to unknown persons, and the lone wolf acts alone to support the beliefs or
philosophies that belong to an extremist group without orders or directives from
outside. The technique of the wolf are developed and directed by oneself, as
Curtis says: "The lone wolf does not have any personal communication with the
group to which he is affiliated, which makes detecting him by the officials in
charge of combating terrorism something very difficult."

The emergence of these lone wolves and their threat has increased after the
killing of Al-Qa'idah leader Usamah Bin-Ladin, which led to a change in the
rules of the game and led a number of those who belong to Al-Qa'idah to return
to their home countries, particularly after the geopolitical situation has
changed, in addition to the escalation of the US attacks on the strongholds of
Al-Qa'idah and Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan, which led members of the
organization to escape and return to their home countries and to form sleeper
cells and carry out terrorist operations in an individual manner using simple
capabilities to cause media clamour and achieve objectives that serve the
organization in a greater way.

It seems that the inability of Al-Qa'idah and IS and the organizations
affiliated with them to carry out large-scale attacks in a direct way have led
to calls within the organizations to urge groups that are not affiliated with
them to launch the attacks. This tendency has been manifested in an article
published by the magazine of Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula, Inspire, which
is issued in English, in which the writer alleged that he seeks to educate the
readers "on how to manufacture a nuclear bomb in your mother's kitchen." To
write this article in English has a great indication since it is clear that it
addresses those living in the West who are influenced by the ideology of
Al-Qa'idah and IS.

The actual beginning of these cells had been in 2009 at the Times Square in New
York when Faisal Shahzad, a Pakistani-born who has a British nationality, tried
to explode a booby-trapped car, and also the attempt of the Nigerian young man
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab to set off an explosive device on board a US plane
heading from Amsterdam to the United States on the Christmas eve in 2009, as
well as the operation carried out by Nidal Hasan, the American recruit of Arab
descent, who opened fire on his colleagues at the Ford Military Base in the
United States in 2009. In the year before last, the "individual terrorist" or
the "lone wolf" technique was used in the United States, represented in the
bombing in the marathon in the US city of Boston, which took place in mid-April
2013.

After nearly one month, Britain suffered from the Lone wolves as happened with
its neighbour. This was in May 2013 when two persons from African descent ran
over a British soldier and then mutilated his body. Therefore, the third
generation of Al-Qa'idah has witnessed a speed in movement and flexibility in
transportation after it exploited the modern technology and the globalization in
the communications (and this is not praise as much as it is a description of the
case).

The sleeper cells stand as a challenge to the security services because they are
not hierarchal or conventional cells that can be uncovered by the arrest of one
their elements. The researchers unanimously agree that the speeches, leaflets,
and the horrible pictures which are posted on the internet about the victims and
violations of human rights stand as a good material to incite such cells to
carry out individual acts of vengeance and suicide operations in their
societies.

The lone wolf does not have an organization to which he is affiliated and which
steers him and gives him orders, guides him, and provides him with weapons and
money since this person plans, coordinates, and carries out the operation alone,
and all the steps of the operation are carried out by him without the knowledge
of anyone. The difficulty is not in the traditional terrorist cells, which are
usually expected to be uncovered by the traditional intelligence methods, but in
the individuals who work alone after they have become hardliners through
watching the takfiri speeches and leaflets in the internet. Most of the
perpetrators do not have any security files and are from well-off educated
strata, and they belong to the third generation of Al-Qa'idah and IS, i.e. their
appearance does not indicate any extremism and they wear jeans, and some of them
received education in the West and they speak several languages. What is more
important than all this is that they are skilful in using advanced technologies.

In spite of this, many of the lone wolves suffer from a state of estrangement,
marginalization, frustration, failure, and isolation of which some confounded
youth suffer. The majority of those who carry out individual terrorist tasks
have been changed by the terrorist groups into an inexhaustible source of
creation and innovation in the field of terrorism and criminality, and we all
know the size and the huge lethal threat that may explode as a result of the
combination of pretexts and justifications with such psychopathic preparedness
to kill in the ugliest way and form such as burning, drowning, slaughtering, or
suffocating. We should all know that the terrorist operations are based on an
ideological part and a practical one, and the practical aspect can be controlled
or detected by the security services, but the ideological one is difficult to
detect and control, particularly in light of the boom in the communications and
the huge technological capabilities which are available in our societies today,
and this is exactly what the terrorist groups exploit to recruit and influence
these elements, which do not maintain links and which are present in various
parts of the world.

The terrorist organizations resort to the lone wolves tactic when the noose is
tightened around them, and it means that a person or a small group, who are not
affiliated with them organizationally but they believe in their ideas, plan and
carry out some terrorist operations based on their own capabilities, and these
operations are carried out by small makeshift groups that launch their
operations in accordance with their available capabilities. In spite of the
short life of these groups and their primitive nature, they are more dangerous
to the security services than the large groups because it is difficult to detect
or arrest them and it is easy for them to hide, particularly since these groups
do not operate in a centralized way; therefore, preventing such attacks is
something very difficult unless these authorities are aware of the tactics,
strategies, and ways of dealing with these terrorist cells and organizations.

The lone wolves strategy is resorted to when the central organization fails to
expand its activity due to the security restrictions, and the threat of the lone
wolves emanates from the fact that they move in the shadow and outside the
security monitoring and they are armed with the factor that constitutes the
worst possible scenarios for the security services, which is the element of
shock and surprise; therefore, security experts around the world called for
increasing the state of alert after a series of attacks which supporters of the
extremists organizations have recently launched in Ottawa, Paris, and Sydney,
and the latest of which was the terrorist operation which the police aborted in
Belgium and was planned for by a group of extremists who returned from Syria.
Take the example of the young man who blew himself up in the mosque of the
Emergency Forces in Asir a few days ago and you will realize that the
characteristics of the lone wolves apply to him, and before him the young men
who blew themselves up in mosques in Kuwait, Al-Dammam, and Al-Dudayh.

The problem with these wolves lies in the fact that the lone wolf is just a very
ordinary person who lives in the society as one of its members and is not
different from them in anything, and he does not have an abnormal or suspicious
activity, and in most cases there is not any sign of devoutness or commitment on
him and he may not be used to pray in the mosque and does not belong to any
gangster or criminal group, but suddenly he carries out the operation in a
lightening way while he is fully safe from the watching eyes because he does not
seem to be a member of a terrorist organizations. This is what has been
confirmed by the investigations of the security services around the world
concerning the majority of those who commit the lone wolves operations, and the
investigations have proven that the perpetrators of these operations did not
have any suspicious activity or affiliation to any terrorist organization.

The lone wolf prepares everything by himself since he is the one who plans,
prepares, and carries out, and the information does not go out of his head even
to closest people to him such as his wife, father, or mother, but he keeps
everything in his mind as part of the plan until the time of the implementation
when the bomb explodes. However, in every plan, no matter how tight and satanic
it is, a flaw remains and from which it can be infiltrated and destroyed. This
flaw may seem as if it is something that does not attract the attention and that
is worthless, but the reality is different from this; therefore, it is called a
flaw. The flaw lies in the need of the lone wolf not to communicate with the
organization but to have enough information on how to manufacture the explosives
and explosive belts, how to blow them up, and from where to get their components
and similar information. Here, the takfiri and terrorist sites and forums
provide their wolves with the solution, and these sites post full subjects on
manufacturing the explosives and on their types, effects, and how to use them.
Hence the lone wolf finds what he wants; therefore, he goes to these sites and
browses them frequently and at day and night since he finds simple and easy
explanation, and even something similar to crash courses on how to manufacture
the explosives using simple materials that are easy to obtain. These sites
provide him with steps that if he follows them, he would be able to manufacture
highly explosive and destructive bombs from easy and very cheap components.

The operation of the lone wolves are usually based on the principle of the
limited self-financing and using the materials for the manufacturing of the
explosives which can be obtained from the markets without attracting the
attention or observation. Most of them master more than one language and are
skilful in the internet world and the modern technologies.

The information which is provided by the internet on how to change from an
ordinary citizen to a terrorist bomber is considered valuable material from the
viewpoint of Al-Qa'idah, the ISIL, and the terrorists in general. It is more
difficult to control it in spite of the human and technological monitoring, and
it constitutes a challenge to the security services more than the networks which
operate on the ground because the latter can provide them with some information
and facts through the monitoring and follow up, but as for the individual cells,
this means that there is one person who is active in the internet who was
provided with ways and means of manufacturing the explosives through using
unbanned materials by the terrorist network.

Resorting to this tactic by these groups is considered the beginning of the end
of terrorism, its defeat, and retreat from our country, God willing, and it
means that the battle will be decisively settled soon in our favour. What
remains is to point out the positive and important aspect concerning the issue
of the lone wolves, which is that the success of the security authorities in
confronting and uprooting terrorism was the reason that led these human wolves
to despair from working an in organized way and to resort to these makeshift
methods, which are no matter how painful their results are, they are temporary
and cannot last. Hence, the flaw lies in the world of the lone wolves is
represented in the security services' watching of the suspicious sites, forums,
and tweets, and monitoring their visitors, and investigating about them. This
issue also requires full alert and close monitoring by the families of their
children and by the student guides of their students.

Source: Al-Jazirah website, Riyadh, in Arabic 1 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 2, 2015 Wednesday 2:53 PM GMT

Coalition defends proposed citizenship laws - as it happened;
The prime minister announces an expansion of powers 'to reflect modern
conditions' and says laws could be applied retrospectively; Julie Bishop can't
confirm deaths of two Australians reportedly killed in drone strikes; and the
ABC is under attack for allowing a former terrorism suspect to appear on Q&A. As
it happened

BYLINE: Gabrielle Chan

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 10263 words


block-time published-time 6.01pm AEST


Night time politics

That is definitely enough flags for one day.

This is how we stand on the eve of the nightly news.


     ·    Tony Abbott's newer version of legislation to strip dual nationals of
          their Australian citizenship has survived the National Security
          Committee and the Coalition party room. Next stop, the parliament.
          Although the PM said citizenship could be stripped via " renunciation
          or revocation ", we really will have to see the detail before we
          translate the actual effect of the bill. Facts required.
     ·    Q&A was once again in the middle of a storm of merde after Zaky
          Mallah, who was convicted of threatening to kill Asio officers,
          appeared in the audience of the show. Communications minister Malcolm
          Turnbull said not only was it a security breach, given Mallah's
          background, it gave him a platform for his "vile" views.
     ·    By way of contrast, Julia Gillard vented to Lenore Taylor regarding
          the state of politics and the media, suggesting the ABC was pulling
          its punches as a result of constant coalition criticism but Murdoch
          media got a special whack.
     ·    Labor reversed their earlier opposition to the government's indexation
          of petrol excise, "because it was the right thing to do". They agreed
          to support the government bill if $1.1bn was given to regional roads
          through the roads to recovery program.
     ·    Both Tony Abbott and Bill Shorten have used the E word. Shorten told
          the caucus to prepare for an election, given there was a real
          possibility a poll would be called over the winter break. Abbott
          suggested in a debate over hospital funding and the federation white
          paper that ideas would be developed for the government to take to the
          next election.



Thanks to the Bowers man, Mike, Daniel Hurst and Shalailah Medhora for their
help. Tomorrow, we have an electoral treat in Nick Xenophon, Jacqui Lambie and
David Leyonhjelm at the National Press Club. We have the aforementioned
citizenship legislation and given it will be the second last day before the
winter sitting break, I am sure we are in for some surprises.

Goodnight and thanks for your company. I leave you with this tweet.

enltrThe new ABC format for #qanda#whosaidjehovah ? pic.twitter.com/gwDfN78dDO

- Michael Woodhead (@mpwoodhead) June 23, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.04pm AEST

block-time published-time 5.10pm AEST

Sorry to harp on this but 10 flags and not a whole lot of new stuff, IMO.

Having pored over the bones of the national security announceable earlier today,
I maintain there was not a whole lot of new detail on the bill. We wait again
for it to be introduced tomorrow morning so finally we will know what we will
know.

This is from the prime minister's statement on the proposed new laws today:

The legislation will update the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 to ensure dual
nationals who serve or fight for terrorist groups, or engage in
terrorism-related conduct inspired by terrorist groups, automatically lose their
Australian citizenship.

The Act will also be amended to ensure dual nationals who are convicted of
specified terrorism-related offences automatically lose their Australian
citizenship.

Abbott told us there will be two new circumstances under which citizenship is
"forfeited".


     ·    "Renunciation by conduct" - that is, fighting for a terrorist
          organisation,
     ·    "Revocation by conviction".


Obviously the word conviction is heartening but on the measure of citizenship,
"renunciation by conduct" is not clear.

Abbott said there would be a range of terrorist offences that will be specified
in the legislation.

If someone is convicted of one or more of those offences, well, then their
citizenship, other than in circumstances where the minister believes that for
various reasons it would be in our national interests not to, will be forfeited.

Labor asked one question in question time but then issued a statement through
Richard Marles :

Labor has consistently said we support an update of the current Citizenship Act
to account for dual citizens fighting with terrorist organisations like Daesh.

Citizenship is a privilege, not a right and any dual national seeking to harm
the Australian people by joining a terrorist group such as Daesh should no
longer be afforded our nation's citizenship.

Labor will work through the legislation in a bipartisan, constructive way once
it is introduced into the Parliament - like Labor has on every other national
security measure.

There is nothing more important than keeping the Australian people safe.

block-time published-time 4.30pm AEST

Tony Abbott on Q&A: whose side are you on?

Cue outrage.

Tony Abbott speaking today on the appearance of Zaky Mallah on Q&A.

It's worth remembering that Tony Abbott is not the only prime minister or ex-PM
who has expressed disdain about Q&A.

None other than Paul Keating, who happens to favour Tony Jones as an
interviewer, likened the program to a Punch and Judy show and suggested guests
take a can of mace for an appearance.

I wouldn't be caught dead on it. If I was the prime minister I would not let
federal ministers go on that program. You just wash the government through mud
every time you turn up.

block-time published-time 3.54pm AEST

Government enemy number 1: Mark Dreyfus.

Shadow attorney general Mark Dreyfus, who has been leading the opposition on the
national security laws, was targeted by immigration minister Peter Dutton in
question time. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 3.50pm AEST

As it pleases you, Madam Speaker. I am not worthy to be thrown out.

The member for Moreton Graham Perrett is evicted under 94a. Photograph: Mike
Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 3.49pm AEST

We are not laughing at you, we're laughing with you.

Education minister Christopher Pyne and foreign minister Julie Bishop share a
joke as Scott Morrison speaks. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 3.47pm AEST

It's a question.

Anthony Albanese during question time. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 3.45pm AEST

A very emotional Bob Katter speaking on the tragedy in Ravenshoe.

Independent Bob Katter makes a statement after question time on the Ravenshoe
tragedy. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.46pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.42pm AEST

Two new inquiries into electoral matters

The head of the joint standing committee on electoral matters, Tony Smith, has
just announced two new inquiries.


     ·    Electoral education:


· electoral education services provided to schools, students and teachers · the
teaching methodology of the national civics and citizenship curriculum; and ·
evolving technology and new platforms for delivering electoral education.

The focus of the electoral education inquiry will include: · What is being
taught to students when they visit Parliament House and Canberra? · What are the
barriers preventing some schools from travelling to Canberra and what can be
done about it? · What resources and training are the teachers provided with to
deliver effective electoral education? · What are the electoral commissions
delivering in terms of electoral education? · How can the delivery of electoral
education be improved?

2. Campaigning activities and conduct at polling places:

The committee will inquire into and report on current rules and practices in
relation to campaign activities in the vicinity of polling places, with
particular reference to: · the distribution of how-to-vote cards; · campaigning
by organisations other than political parties at polling places; · allegations
in relation to the conduct of, and material disseminated by, campaigners at
state and federal elections in the vicinity of polling places intended or likely
to mislead or intimidate electors; and · any other related matter.

A penny for your thoughts.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.49pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.25pm AEST

The deputy prime minister, Warren Truss, is speaking on the Ravenshoe cafe
explosion in far north Queensland. He says seven people are still critically ill
and the death toll could rise.

This is a very sad even for the town of Ravenshoe.

Truss is visiting Ravenshoe on Monday to see if there is anything he can do.

Bill Shorten is speaking now.

People will be scarred for life... everyone understands and is committed to you.

Shorten proposes the house stands for a minute.

Liberal MP Warren Entsch, of far north Queensland, also speaks.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.50pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.19pm AEST

Queensland independent Bob Katter is making a statement on the tragedy in
Ravenshoe, where an out-of-control ute hit gas cylinders at a cafe. The
resulting explosion injured 20 people, two of whom have died.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.50pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.16pm AEST

Last government question to assistant treasurer Josh Frydenberg : will the
assistant treasurer update the house on how the government is providing security
to all Australian savings for their retirement, are there any challenges to this
approach?

This is about Labor's policy on tax concessions on superannuation.


     ·    Labor has proposed two main changes to superannuation tax concessions
          to raise $14.3bn for the federal budget over 10 years.
     ·    People currently enjoy tax-free earnings from super accounts in the
          retirement phase. Labor's plan would tax annual earnings above a
          $75,000 threshold at 15%.
     ·    The second proposed change affects the high income superannuation
          contribution, which ensures people on high incomes pay 30% tax on
          their contributions. The income threshold for this tax treatment would
          be lowered from $300,000 to $250,000.


Frydenberg:

With the intergenerational report showing that the number of Australians over
the age of 65 will more than double over the next four decades, we need to
encourage people to save for their retirement and we need to protect those
savings. That's why we on this side of the house are committed to no adverse or
unexpected changes to super in this term of government.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.52pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.10pm AEST

Sussan Ley, the health minister, is asked about the passage of the national
health amendment pharmaceutical benefits bill and she thanks Labor for their
support on the legislation. This is the next five-year pharmacy agreement.

Another Labor question to Christopher Pyne on the budget cuts to schools.

The leader of the house, Pyne, gives a little advice to the Speaker on his
answer just in case she was thinking of pulling him up on relevance.

It's terribly sad for the opposition that they've been reduced to this level
where they can't even - they just have to make up questions and assertions
rather than deal with the issues. But the question does give me the opportunity
to range widely over the subject of school funding and trust which is extremely
important because this government went to the election with a promise to match
funding dollar for dollar for the new school funding model and we delivered it
100%.

Yes. H for chutzpah. Pyne quickly gets to The Killing Season and Bill Shorten's
part in removing Julia Gillard in the second leadership coup.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.54pm AEST

block-time published-time 3.04pm AEST

Labor to Abbott: The PM's $30bn school cuts will leave schools around the
country an average of $3.2m worse off, including schools in the electorate of
Page. Given the PM's federation green paper proposes to cut all fundings to
schools, aren't these cuts just another part of the PM's plans to make parents
of kids pay a new schools tax?

The speaker asks for the question to be rephrased on the grounds that it is
hypothetical assertion. When the MP does not, Speaker moves to the next
government question.

block-time published-time 3.01pm AEST

Malcolm Turnbull is asked a Dixer on Q&A:

The inclusion of Mr Zaky Mallah in the live audience of Q&A last night was a
grave error of judgment. He had served a term of imprisonment for threatening to
kill Asio officers. He had been charged with threatening suicide attacks and
preparing for terrorist attacks in that context, although had been acquitted. He
had travelled to Syria in the pursuit of what he described as jihad. His social
media presence is vile, abusive and violent. He is a very, very known quantity.
It beggars belief that he was included in a live audience. Whether it is on the
basis of what he might say given his clear track record of intemperate and
violent language, but also, Madam Speaker, just as worryingly from a physical
security point of view. I mean surely we have learned to take threats of this
kind, to take people like this extremely seriously. The idea that there was no
physical security check on that audience, or that this man was allowed into it,
is extraordinary.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.55pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.56pm AEST

A Dixer to Scott Morrison : I refer the minister to the report in today's Daily
Telegraph about the previous government's early years quality fund. What is the
action the government is taking to ensure affordable access of child care to
Australian families?

Labor's Nick Champion to Abbott : "Some government somewhere printed a document
that refers to health and education cuts and says that they will achieve
cumulative savings of over $80bn by 2024-2025. I'll give the PM a clue, the
document's got a kangaroo and an emu on the front of it. A kangaroo and an emu
on the front of it".

Speaker Bishop ruled it out of order.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.26pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.51pm AEST

A witty riposte to the previous Bowers pic.

enltr @mpbowers@gabriellechan@GuardianAus I loved her in the Harry Potter movies

- Nick O (@nicknopants) June 23, 2015

block-time published-time 2.50pm AEST

Don't make me count to 10...

enltrMadam speaker in her feet
#QT@gabriellechan@GuardianAus#politicslive#orderInTheHousepic.twitter.com/aTM5ep
eT3m

- Mikearoo (@mpbowers) June 23, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.54pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.49pm AEST

A Dixer to Christopher Pyne : Will the minister update the house on the
importance of to the Australian economy of the international education sector
and how is the government ensuring the success of this vital sector?

Labor's Stephen Jones to Tony Abbott: I refer to the PM's secret plan to cut
every single dollar from public hospitals, forcing the states to hit Australians
with a new hospital tax. How much will parents have to pay to have their sick
child seen by a doctor in an emergency department?

Christopher Pyne suggests to Madam Speaker that while she has been lenient with
Labor's "hypothetical" questions, it's time to rein them in.

Labor's Tony Burke says a federation white paper is hardly hypothetical.

Speaker asks Labor to rephrase, which Jones does and Abbott answers along
previous lines.

I would of thought members opposite would not be scared of a sensible debate.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.55pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.42pm AEST

Shorten to Abbott : I refer to the PM's federation green paper that proposes to
cut every single dollar from public hospital funding. Isn't this just another
way for the PM to force states to implement his Commission of Audit
recommendation to charge a hospital tax for emergency department visits?

The simple answer is no... Labor's national platform states, and I quote, Labor
believes our constitution and federation need to be modernised to resolve the
funding and administrative problems that have prevented government effectively
dealing with the challenges of today. So... get with your own program.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.56pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.39pm AEST

Neither is Labor.

The opposition during question time. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 2.37pm AEST

Madam Speaker is not amused.

Speaker Bronwyn Bishop watches over immigration minister Peter Dutton.
Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 2.36pm AEST

Leader of the house doing the biz.

Education minister Christopher Pyne keeping in touch. Photograph: Mike Bowers
for the Guardian

block-time published-time 2.35pm AEST

(Two former health ministers) Plibersek to Abbott: Given the PM promised no cuts
to health but has already cut more than $50bn from public hospitals, leaving
what the President of the AMA describes as a huge black hole, how can anyone
believe a word this PM says on health funding?

This government appreciates what members opposite plainly don't, that it's not
just all about money. Yes, money is important but the morale of public hospitals
matters. The systems under which public hospitals operate matter. The training
of our public hospital professionals matters.

block-time published-time 2.31pm AEST

Joe Hockey gets a government question on the best budget eva.

block-time published-time 2.30pm AEST

Abbott uses the E word

Then Labor to Abbott : In light of the PM's last answer, can the PM please
explain to the parliament how can it be sensible or mature to cut every single
commonwealth dollar from public hospital funding?

It is a draft discussion paper and it ought to be possible for this country to
have a sensible discussion about the best ways of funding and operating public
schools and public hospitals....[Australians] expect a mature debate out of
which will come sensible proposals for the betterment of our country, proposals,
of course, that this government would certainly intend to take to an election.

block-time published-time 2.27pm AEST

Next is a government question to Michael Keenan, justice minister: Will the
Minister inform the house of steps the government is taking to protect
Australians from their legal firearms trade?

Keenan uses the question to attack Labor and the record of the last government.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.29pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.24pm AEST

Cathy McGowan asks Scott Morrison, social services minister, what is happening
with emergency relief services, which provide assistance to struggling
individuals and families. She quotes funding cuts to Loaves and Fishes in
Wangaratta and other services.

Morrison says there was a competitive grant round and if there were gaps in
services, the department is working through it.

block-time published-time 2.19pm AEST

Next Labor question on hospitals.

Tony Abbott says the federation white paper is "so scary" it will be published
later today.

I am not sure whether he means publicly released as well.

block-time published-time 2.16pm AEST

Peter Dutton gets a question on citizenship laws but takes the opportunity to
drop the boot into the shadow attorney general, Mark Dreyfus.

I'm glad you interjected because we're going to expose you for the fraud you
are, Member for Isaacs... he made an interesting interjection into the debate
because he wanted to bring these terrorists back into Australia. It's an
abrogation of his responsibility. They hid him for... days.

This refers to Dreyfus' suggestion that suspected terrorists should be brought
back to Australia and dealt with by the courts.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.23pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.13pm AEST

Terrorism: a modern form of treason.

Tony Abbott speaks to the citizenship laws. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the
Guardian

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.23pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.11pm AEST

Shorten to Abbott: Last month when asked if the power to strip citizenship from
dual nationals will be exercised at a minister's discretion, the PM said, and I
quote, "That is correct." What made the PM change his mind on his citizenship
proposal between then and now?

Tony Abbott :

As I've said all along on this matter, the government's position is to strip
citizenship from terrorists who are dual nationals... I do look forward to the
support of the Labor party in making this come about.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.24pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.09pm AEST

Tony Abbott:

Our priority, Madam Speaker, is to stop people becoming terrorists in the first
place but if people do fall prey to the arguments of the death cult, if they do
leave this country to fight with a terrorist army overseas, our determination is
to stop them coming back to this country because the last thing we need in this
country is hardened, brutalised terrorists loose on our streets. We do not want
terrorists in this country. People who have left our country to fight with
terrorist armies overseas have committed the modern form of treason.

block-time published-time 2.07pm AEST

First government question to Abbott is on national security. No prizes there.

A full flag assault.

(L-R) The immigration minister, Peter Dutton; the prime minister, Tony Abbott;
and the attorney general, George Brandis. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the
Guardian

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.25pm AEST

block-time published-time 2.04pm AEST

And question time.

Shorten to Abbott : Did the PM's own department circulate a federation green
paper that provides an option that would see the Australian government cut every
single dollar of funding to public hospitals?

Abbott is speaking to the federation white paper.

As part of this discussion lots of things will be raised, lots of things will be
chewed over. Many things will be considered and rejected.

What matters is the final decision, says Abbott.

I think that is a yes.

block-time published-time 2.01pm AEST

I may have overegged the key events button on the blog out of that press
conference but the prime minister continued to ghast my flabber.

His comments on Bret Walker, the former independent security monitor, were right
up there. Walker raised ministerial discretion as a power to revoke citizenship
but by his own words, he said he never imagined there would be no court process.

He told  Lenore Taylor  :

I am impatient with and I condemn those who persist in reading pages of my
report as if they say the government can exercise ministerial discretion after
dispensing with a criminal trial. I said the minister should have discretion
over the revocation of citizenship after a criminal trial... and it reflects
very poorly that those quoting me can't read beyond the few lines they are
citing.

I assume they have been given speaking notes to that effect, but my report does
not provide a justification for what they intend to do ... it is not what I
said, nor what I think now, and anyone who claims otherwise is wrong. In fact I
am saying the opposite.

Tony Abbott rejected all of that today, suggesting Walker simply changed his
mind.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.27pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.54pm AEST

So many questions....

Another question is about the citizenship of children of terrorists.

Q: Could they, too, have their citizenship stripped because of the activities of
their parents?

They will be subject to the law. They will be subject to the law. And the law
will be enforced with its full rigour by this government to keep our community
safe, says Abbott.

block-time published-time 1.50pm AEST

There is the question of what happens to dual nationals whose other country will
not take them back, once they lose Australian citizenship. Indefinite detention
maybe?

That's a bridge that we would cross if and when we come to it. But the point
that I make is that under no circumstances will this government resile from
reasonable lawful action which keeps that community safe, says Abbott.

block-time published-time 1.46pm AEST

Tony Abbott asks the ABC: Whose side are you on?

Tony Abbott lays into the ABC over allowing Zaky Mallah on Q&A.

What our national broadcaster has done is give a platform to a convicted
criminal and terrorist sympathiser - they have given this individual, this
disgraceful individual, a platform and in so doing, I believe the national
broadcaster has badly let us down. I think many, many millions of Australians
would feel betrayed by our national broadcaster right now, and I think that the
ABC does have to have a long, hard look at itself, and to answer a question
which I have posed before - whose side are you on?

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.29pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.43pm AEST

Bret Walker changed his mind, says Abbott

Do you accept that this is a long way back from the ministerial discretion power
that you were talking about initially, and that perhaps the government had
misinterpreted Bret Walker's recommendations?

If I may say so, with respect to distinguished senior counsel, he's changed his
mind. That's what's happened. For all sorts of reasons, he's changed his mind
and I don't want to speculate on what those reasons might be, because it was a
very, very clear and unambiguous recommendation in his report back in March, I
think, of last year, that there should be the capacity for the minister on
national interest grounds to strip terrorists who are dual nationals of their
citizenship.

block-time published-time 1.39pm AEST

All terrorist organisations are evil but some are more evil than others.

Tony Abbott says the minister will be able to pick and choose terrorist
organisations. That is, if they are not fighting against us, it may be OK. Here
is his form of words.

The legislation will give the minister for border protection the opportunity to
specify from amongst that list terrorist organisations, because for the purposes
of this legislation, because some of those currently proscribed while they are
terrorist organisations and we don't like them, are not particularly aiming at
us.

So this minister will have a chance to make a selection out of this minister's
list of terrorist organisations and if we believe on appropriate advice that the
citizenship of a dual national is forfeit by virtue of participation in serious
terrorist activity, under the law, well, the relevant notification will go out.
The role of the minister is not adjudication, it's notification.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.30pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.35pm AEST

Stateless? We use the KISS principle.

Q: Some bilateral agreements with countries to ensure that they are not left
stateless, these people that we strip of their dual nationality - will you be
trying to seek some other extradition treaties or anything of that nature?

We are not going to overcomplicate this matter. We are going to act very firmly
in Australia's national interests. And it is absolutely in our national
interests that wherever we reasonably can, we stop hardened terrorists from
coming back to our country where they could be out loose on our streets plotting
harm to our citizens.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.41pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.32pm AEST

Peter Dutton has not nominated a period of retrospectivity if the Joint
Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence and Security goes that way. Abbott
estimates that 50% of those who are currently fighting in the Middle East with
various terrorist armies are dual nationals.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.42pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.29pm AEST

Section 35 is so effective it has not needed to be used

The legislation will go to the Joint Standing Committee on Intelligence and
Security for "thorough scrutiny".

Abbott is asked why section 35 has never been used. That is, maybe it is just
not that effective.

Tony Abbott:

If I could just offer a thought here, thanks, look, an old law is a good law.
This law has stood for almost 70 years unchallenged and there is now a settled
part of the Australian legal system. I would refer any of you who are
particularly interested in this to the speech of the then minister Arthur
Calwell, when introducing the Citizenship Act back in our parliament I think in
1948. So this is a provision of long standing, and old laws - just because it
has not yet been used does not mean that it is in some way redundant... It has
been so effective that it hasn't had to be used and we will develop it by
bringing it into the modern era.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.43pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.25pm AEST

Dual nationals in Oz could lose their citizenship without conviction

REPORTER: Dual nationals here in Australia, could they lose their citizenship
without a conviction, as was flagged last week?

There are two broad circumstances under which people will forfeit their
citizenship. The first is renunciation by conduct. The second is revocation by
conviction. Now, it could happen. Either of these circumstances could apply to
people onshore or offshore, but much more typically, it would be renunciation by
conduct offshore, and revocation by conviction onshore.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.43pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.23pm AEST

Peter Dutton, immigration minister :

We have provided in the legislation that will be introduced into the parliament
tomorrow, a principle of renunciation by conduct. So the person's conduct, the
acts that they are involved in, they deliver a renunciation themselves of their
own citizenship and there is for a conviction a similar outcome. It's also
important that we have been able to capture people who are not only fighting
for, but serving in a prescribed terrorist organisation, and there is, as a
result of that action as well, by their own actions, by their own conduct, a
renunciation in effect of their citizenship.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.31pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.21pm AEST

The legislation was considered by the National Security Committee of cabinet and
was considered by the party room.

It sounds like it was not taken to the full cabinet.

It will go to parliament first thing on the morrow.

block-time published-time 1.20pm AEST

Tony Abbott :

We will ask the Joint Standing Committee on intelligence and security to
consider whether there should be retrospective operation of the new law should
it pass theParliament. As drafted, it is prospective but given that we have a
number of dual citizens currently in jail after terrorist convictions, the
committee should consider whether it should have retrospective operation at
least in those cases.

block-time published-time 1.18pm AEST

Tony Abbott announces expansion of section 35 "to reflect modern conditions"

Some 160 Australians are known to be supporting Isis with financing and
recruitment, Abbott is confident that about 30 Australians have so far been
killed in fighting.

The government is creating two new circumstances under which citizenship is
"forfeited".


     ·    "Renunciation by conduct" - that is, fighting for a terrorist
          organisation,
     ·    "Revocation by conviction".


block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.38pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.15pm AEST

Tony Abbott is speaking now.

block-time published-time 1.14pm AEST

More Turnbull, this time on the already initiated review of Q&A, which was
described in the coalition party room this morning as a "lefty lynch mob":

What do you hope will come out of the review? Do you think the show should be
axed?

I wouldn't make that suggestion at all. I think the ABC board has a legal
statutory obligation, under section 8 of the Act, to ensure, it's the board's
responsibility to ensure that its news and current affairs are accurate and
impartial.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.15pm AEST

block-time published-time 1.11pm AEST

Here is Malcolm Turnbull speaking about Q&A right now:

The decision to allow Mr Zacky Mallah to participate in the live studio audience
on Q&A last night was, as the ABC has acknowledged, a very grave error of
judgment. It was a grave error on several fronts: firstly, a person with those
opinions being allowed to express them without any hindrance on live television
raises very real, very real concerns. Secondly, the ABC obviously has, as every
broadcaster does, to do our best to protect the physical security of people who
are under our responsibility, and they are - I have grave concerns, too, about
the fact that Mr [Mallah] was there without any thorough security checks,
participating in that audience. I am not jumping to any conclusions here, but
the fact is that we have to take safety and physical security very seriously.

block-time published-time 1.07pm AEST

And here is the statement from deputy PM Warren Truss, who has grabbed Labor's
olive branch on fuel excise and run with it. It provides for the regional road
funding requested by Labor.

The government has today successfully reached agreement to re-introduce the
indexation of fuel excise to inflation.

This is a significant structural reform.

The fuel excise will increase twice a year, in February and August, in line with
movements of the Consumer Price Index.

The policy is currently implemented by a 12 month tariff proposal. The passage
of this legislation will make the policy permanent.

For a typical household consuming 50 litres of fuel per week, the current impact
is estimated at 40 cents per week.

While the impact on individual households is modest, this measure will provide a
predictable and growing source of revenue, which will help the Government boost
its investment in job creating and productivity enhancing road infrastructure.

The measure is expected to raise $3.6 billion over five years to the end of
2018-19, and $23 billion over the next decade. All excise increases will be
dedicated to road infrastructure.

Implementing this important structural fiscal reform will contribute
significantly to our efforts to build a stronger, more prosperous economy.

The Government will provide an additional $1.105 billion in funding for the
Roads to Recovery Programme over the next two years.

This means local governments across Australia will receive an extra $300 million
in 2015-16, on top of the already doubled $700 million they are receiving this
year. In 2016-17, local governments will receive an extra $805 million in
addition to the $350 million they were already scheduled to receive.

In 2017-18, the Roads to Recovery Programme will revert to its base funding of
$350 million.

block-time published-time 1.04pm AEST

Justice minister Michael Keenan is piling onto the ABC with Malcolm Turnbull for
allowing Zaky Mallah into the audience.

I'm glad that the ABC has acknowledged that error, but they do need to have a
serious internal review of their processes in light of what I think was a very
serious error in judgment.

Stacks on the mill.

block-time published-time 1.01pm AEST

It's a 10 flag day people. Buckle up.

block-time published-time 12.59pm AEST

enltrGovt MP suggested boycott of #qanda & Abbott flagged some action after
break. "We all know Q&A is a lefty lynch mob," PM said @gabriellechan

- Daniel Hurst (@danielhurstbne) June 23, 2015

block-time published-time 12.57pm AEST

Lunchtime politics

Brevity people, as Tony Abbott is unveiling the citizenship legislation at 1pm.


     ·    Labor has backed the automatic petrol indexation increases, as long as
          $1.1bn in savings goes to the Roads to Recovery program, in regional
          areas as well as some outer urban areas. The government has snatched
          the olive branch.
     ·    Two Australian terrorists have been reported killed, Khaled Sharrouf
          and Mohammed Elomar. The news was revealed in time for the Coalition
          party to discuss citizenship.
     ·    Malcolm Turnbull has weighed into the Q&A debate over whether Zaky
          Mallah, who convicted of threatening Asio officers, should have been
          allowed into the audience. Turnbull agreed with Mark Scott that it was
          an "error of judgement".
     ·    Turnbull's move comes as Julia Gillard suggests the ABC has "pulled
          its punches" after the constant Coalition criticism of the national
          broadcaster.


block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.59pm AEST

block-time published-time 12.51pm AEST

Shorten sniffs the right breeze. Election anyone?

enltrAbbott urges Coalition MPs to sell agenda during winter break. "We're not
far from an election year." @gabriellechan

- Daniel Hurst (@danielhurstbne) June 23, 2015

block-time published-time 12.48pm AEST

Prepare for an election, says Shorten

Bill Shorten has told his MPs to buckle up for an election over the winter
break.

I reckon there's a real possibility we won't be coming back until after an
election. If there is an early election, it will be an election fought on
Labor's turf: jobs and vital infrastructure, universal Medicare and quality
hospitals, schools, skills and universities. And if they want to make it an
election about workers and a fair go in the workplace, I say 'bring it on'.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.48pm AEST

block-time published-time 12.40pm AEST

Malcolm Turnbull agrees Q&A inclusion of Zaky Mallah an "error of judgement"

Turnbull has spoken to ABC managing director Mark Scott, presenter Tony Jones
and chair Jim Spigelman. He says Q&A is undergoing a review and the episode will
form part of the review

Turnbull says he would encourages the ABC to consult with the Australian Federal
Police regarding security issues, given Mallah was convicted of threats to Asio
officers.

Turnbull was interviewed on Sky News.

block-time published-time 12.14pm AEST

Julia Gillard vents

Lenore Taylor has a corker of an interview with Julia Gillard. There are too
many juicy bits to mention. Just read the thing. Here is the top:

Julia Gillard has delivered a biting critique of the modern media for shallow,
policy-light reporting, bias, inaccuracy and succumbing to "bullying", accusing
the Daily Telegraph of "integrated bias" and the ABC of "pulling its punches"
for fear of more attacks by the Abbott government.

In a new chapter of her autobiography, My Story, and an exclusive interview with
Guardian Australia, the former Labor prime minister contends that the media and
Australia's preoccupation with leadership destabilisation contribute to
politicians' difficulties in arguing for increasingly necessary policy changes.

The leader who in 2010 vowed to start showing Australian voters "the real Julia"
describes what she calls a "vicious cycle" of media preoccupation with gaffes or
peripheral stumbles, leading to ever more tightly staged public appearances and
even deeper voter disillusion.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.15pm AEST

block-time published-time 12.12pm AEST

Shalailah Medhora has been trawling the party room briefings.

In the Labor caucus, the majority of the discussion centred around the fuel
excise and the insistence on using the Roads To Recovery program to deliver any
savings back to local councils. The two councils that will benefit most, Labor
MPs heard, were Newcastle and Blacktown.

The other interesting thing in caucus was a discussion around the China
Australia Free Trade Agreement. Sections of Labor have been concerned over the
temporary migration settings, which allow temporary workers in on projects
larger than $150m in value.

When an unnamed MP asked if Labor could block the trade deal in parliament,
Shorten slapped it down.

We must remain a free trade party.

block-time published-time 11.35am AEST

The three amigos.

Bill Shorten, Anthony Albanese and Chris Bowen. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the
Guardian

block-time published-time 11.31am AEST

On citizenship legislation, Bill Shorten questioned why it has taken so long to
bring the bill forward though it supports the "the extension of that definition
to people who take up arms against Australia working for a terrorist
organisation". He says the government has offered a briefing on Wednesday.

We have seen the solicitor-general's opinion contradict what the government
wanted to do. We have seen the independent national security monitor verballed
by the PM. Labor is hoping that we have already had a win and moderated what
might have been a truly unenforceable law. It is a no national security interest
for the government to put up a law for political purposes which couldn't
actually be enforced.

He says he won't "shed any tears" if the deaths of Sharrouf and Elomar are
confirmed.

block-time published-time 11.25am AEST

Daniel Hurst asks Shorten, Is this motivated by wanting to gazump the Greens
after the pension deal last week - how much of this was motivated by that?

The Greens deal last week, what did they actually get? They got the extension of
a submissions deadline for six weeks. That is not a deal. That is a con job by
Tony Abbott.

block-time published-time 11.22am AEST

Bill Shorten is asked about crocodile hunting being allowed in the Northern
Terroritory.

He is lost for words.

I honestly don't know.

block-time published-time 11.21am AEST

Bill Shorten is trying set a different Tone (pardon the pun) than the Tony
Abbott model of opposition leader.

Labor is changing the political game here. We are changing the rules of the game
on Tony Abbott. We put Australians ahead of the political games. We don't want
petrol companies to get this money. We want to see jobs in local communities and
our outer suburbs and regions. Labor are preparing to be competitive in the next
election. What you get with Labor is pragmatic consideration of the ideas based
on all the facts as situations change.

Chris Bowen makes the point that Labor has supported a number of measures,
including the changes to the dependent spouse offset.

Where there is something that is fair, we will back it.

block-time published-time 11.15am AEST

Bowers is singing the Long and Winding Road.

enltrThe long and winding road
#BillShorten#Presser#FuelExcise@gabriellechan@GuardianAus#politicslivepic.twitte
r.com/GCHdj42TuQ

- Mikearoo (@mpbowers) June 23, 2015

block-time published-time 11.14am AEST

Journalist to Shorten: You said it was a rotten idea. You said you would never
support it. Something has changed very profoundly or you over egged that. What
has changed?

Shorten:

In a beauty parade, between giving money to oil companies and putting money back
into Australian roads, generating jobs and confidence, it is clear which way
Labor has to go. We are making a difficult decision. What Australians want at
the moment is they want less of Liberal versus Labor on every issue and the
politics and negativity. We are demonstrating, with my shadow treasurer and
infrastructure minister and myself, is Labor is willing to show leadership.

block-time published-time 11.12am AEST

Anthony Albanese says Labor has chosen to channel $1.1bn into Roads to Recovery
because it benefits all local councils. Where the Greens wants the petrol excise
savings into public transport, Albanese says Labor wanted to benefit the whole
country rather than one or two regions from a public transport project.

The difficulty with the proposal of channelling this money into public
transport, for example, is that it is difficult to see how you could benefit the
whole ofAustralia by funding just one or two projects.

block-time published-time 11.09am AEST

Chris Bowen again on the difficult nature of the decision:

The long term health of the budget which is important. That is what the
Australian people want. Politicians focusing not on today or next week but on
the next 10 years which is the approach Labor has taken. Labor is more than
prepared to make difficult decisions. This was a difficult decision for us, for
our ERC, our shadow cabinet and caucus. We don't like to see petrol taxes going
up at all but difficult decisions are necessary and Labor is prepared, where we
can, to make a positive contribution to do so and that is the offer today to the
government and it is up to the government now to respond.

block-time published-time 11.07am AEST

Chris Bowen:

If the government is prepared to provide the equivalent of two years, the first
two years of the revenue from the indexation of petrol excise to local
government to fund important infrastructure across the country, we will support
that measure.

block-time published-time 11.06am AEST

Labor backflips on petrol excise

Bill Shorten on supporting the government's petrol excise increase:

This is a good idea because it goes some way to addressing the $15bn local
government infrastructure debt by providing a billion dollars plus on roads in
the next two years. What we want to do is see confidence being built.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.43pm AEST

block-time published-time 11.03am AEST

Bill Shorten coming up.

As a ready reckoner, Labor had resisted supporting the government move to
restore petrol excise increases, stopped by John Howard.

Shorten was asked on May 29 if he would back the excise increase, given Richard
Di Natale had left the way open to support it.

Remember Tony Abbott before the last election was everywhere man in high-vis and
he was saying he wouldn't increase taxes. Now he wants to increase petrol taxes.
We all know petrol prices are going up. But the other promise he made was he
said he would never work with the Greens, he would never do a deal with the
Greens. So he's got the daily double today, hasn't he? Up go the taxes of all
motorists and a deal with the Greens.

Bill Shorten addressing a CEDA breakfast in the mural hall of parliament.
Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time published-time 10.48am AEST

Parliament sits at midday due to party room meetings.

Here is the agenda for today:


     ·    Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Amendment [No.2]
     ·    Social Services Legislation Amendment (Youth Employment and Other
          Measures)
     ·    Crimes Legislation Amendment (Powers, Offences and Other Measures)
     ·    Civil Law and Justice Legislation Amendment
     ·    Passports Legislation Amendment (Integrity)
     ·    Prime Minister's Motion: 100 thanniversary of the landing at
          Gallipoli.


Bill Shorten, Chris Bowen and Anthony Albanese are standing up at 11am to talk
about the petrol excise olive branch.

More olive than branch but you know what I mean. Photograph: Harald
Theissen/Alamy

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.52am AEST

block-time published-time 10.37am AEST

Is it that time already?

Cups await the morning tea rush at the Ceda conference at parliament.
Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.53am AEST

block-time published-time 10.34am AEST

To clarify on the petrol excise policy shift, this is an offer by Labor, which
the government has yet to accept. But it is an easier option than the Greens,
who demanded funding for public transport.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.54am AEST

block-time published-time 10.22am AEST

Daniel Hurst has been working the phones and has confirmed shadow cabinet last
night signed off on a deal that will see $1.1bn returned to road building
through the Roads to Recovery program over two years. He was told by a Labor
source:

The ball's in the government's court now. This will be a shot in the arm for
jobs and infrastructure. It was a difficult decision but the prospect of
billions of dollars being returned to oil companies was unacceptable. We would
prefer this money be spent on roads in regional and outer suburban areas rather
than handed back to big oil companies.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.37am AEST

block-time published-time 10.13am AEST

Everyone wants a deal

Phil Coorey at the Financial Review is reporting that Labor has decided to back
a deal on petrol excise. Apparently Labor was feeling left out by the Greens
pension deal.

Labor has moved to gazump the Greens and has offered to cut a deal with the
government to reintroduce the twice-yearly increase of petrol excise.

Its only condition is that $1.1bn be dedicated to fixing and building regional
roads in the next two years.

In an about-face that will deliver the budget $23bn in revenue over the next
decade and $3bn over four-year-forward estimates period, the shadow cabinet
agreed Monday night to support the reintroduction of the twice-yearly indexation
of excise to inflation. It will be put to the caucus on Tuesday morning.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.32am AEST

block-time published-time 10.09am AEST

Luke Simpkins, one of the Coalition backbenchers who signed a letter to the
prime minister urging more be done to curb the threat of terrorism, has admitted
that the government has abandoned plans to automatically strip dual nationals of
their citizenship if they're still in Australia.

If they're onshore, then putting them through the court system would be the way
to go. Following a conviction, if that occurs, then action should be taken.

Simpkins said he would continue pursuing the possibility of revoking nationality
for sole citizens who are eligible for citizenship in another country, but said
the government "needs to sort out" the question of dual nationals first.

We need to sort this one out first. And then myself and I'm sure other
backbenchers will be pursuing the options for revoking [sole citizenship].

block-time published-time 9.46am AEST

Public servants in Canberra are about to walk off the job for a half day strike
today. The Community and Public Sector Union estimates 6500 workers will join
the strike and meet at the Canberra Convention Centre at 10.3oam. They are
striking over the pay and conditions contained in the next pay deal.

Affected departments include:


     ·    Agriculture
     ·    Immigration and Border Protection (including Customs)
     ·    Defence
     ·    Education
     ·    Employment
     ·    Environment
     ·    Human Services
     ·    Veterans' Affairs
     ·    CSIRO
     ·    Australian Tax Office
     ·    Australian Institute of Criminology
     ·    Geoscience Australia
     ·    Bureau of Meteorology
     ·    National Library of Australia
     ·    Australian Bureau of Statistics


Members have been given permission to take protected industrial action by the
Fair Work Commission.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.55am AEST

block-time published-time 9.36am AEST

I will step away from the national security debate for a minute to focus on
Christopher Pyne, who is speaking to the Ceda (Committee for Economic
Development Australia) conference.

He is outlining the ABCs of education policy, that the states are responsible
for schools and the commonwealth must not be tempted to take more power from the
states on education.

Federal education ministers should just say no. As Nancy Reagan would say.

The commonwealth, with limited on-the-ground capacities, must not be tempted to
overreach itself to try to micromanage schools or take over functions that
properly belong to the states and territories. It is a temptation federal
ministers must resist. We saw with the previous government what happened when
the commonwealth sought to move from setting national agendas to seeking to run
schools. There was an increasing array of agreements, proposals and
inter-governmental processes. Funding increases but so too did the
administrative and compliance burden on states and territories and schools. The
final manifestation of this was the Australian education Act that was rushed
through the parliament in 2013. It was too intrusive, put too much power in the
hands of the federal government and had absurd reporting requirements like
asking all schools to develop a schools management plan to be sent to Canberra
central. It was a mess. We ended up with a more complex funding system, u
nrealistic expectations of future spending and all discussion fixated on
spending levels rather than what the evidence clearly indicated would actually
improve education outcomes. It led to a backlash from states, territories and
the non-government sector and our education performance, the students, continued
to decline.

Gonski is gonski. Remember the Tony Abbott and Pyne said there was no light
between Labor and the Coalition on education policy prior to the 2013 election
but we subsequently learned there was no Gonski funding for the out years (years
5 and 6) that were off budget. Labor had promised the money but as it was off
budget, we could not see their details.

Of course, one of the most enthusiastic proponents of the federal Gonski reforms
is the NSW Coalition education minister Adrian Piccoli.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.57am AEST

block-time published-time 9.11am AEST

Following on from the previous exchange, the ABC has released a statement,
describing the attendance of Zaky Mallah as an "error of judgment".

In attempting to explore important issues about the rights of citizens and the
role of the government in fighting terrorism, the Q&A program made an error in
judgement in allowing Zaky Mallah to join the audience and ask a question.

Mr Mallah has been interviewed by the Australian media on a number of occasions.
The environment of a live television broadcast, however, meant it would not be
possible for editorial review of the comments he might make prior to broadcast,
particularly if he engaged in debate beyond his prepared question.

Tony Jones correctly and immediately ruled a statement made by Mr Mallah as out
of order.

Q&A will continue to raise issues that are provocative and controversial. There
is always risk in undertaking live television. That is the nature of the Q&A
program since it first aired in 2008.

As has been the case in the past on Q&A, circumstances will happen that are not
anticipated. The critical question is whether risks could have been managed and
the right editorial judgments made in advance.

The circumstances of Mr Mallah's appearance will be reviewed by the ABC.

Richard Finlayson, Director ABC Television

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.58am AEST

block-time published-time 9.07am AEST

Anyone who saw Q&A would have seen the exchange between Zaky Mallah and
parliamentary secretary Steve Ciobo. By his own description, Mallah was:

... charged with planning a terrorist attack in Sydney in 2003 and was acquitted
by the supreme court jury in 2005 of those charges however as a plea bargain
happened, I pleaded guilty to threatening to kill Asio officials.

Ciobo fired back:

My understanding of your case was that you were acquitted because at that point
in time the laws weren't retrospective. But I am happy to look you straight in
the eye and say that I'd be pleased to be part of a government that would say
that you were out of the country.

Mallah:

Rubbish.

Ciobo:

I'm telling you, I would sleep very soundly at night with that point of view.

Zaky Mallah asks Steve Ciobio about his case.

Mallah has continued the fight this morning, appearing to enjoy his 15 minutes
of fame.

enltrThe majority of the #qanda audience tonight was pro Libs and pathetic. I
would pay to see that Minister dumped on #ISIS territory in Iraq!

- Zaky Mallah (@ZakyMallah) June 22, 2015

enltrThe greatest thing about Australia is that it HAD something called 'the
rule of law. Today, the trash Abbott government knows NO law #qanda

- Zaky Mallah (@ZakyMallah) June 22, 2015

enltrGood to know I'm making headlines this morning. They don't call me 'Mr pot
stirrer' for no reason! Ha! Good morning Australia. ??

- Zaky Mallah (@ZakyMallah) June 22, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.00am AEST

block-time published-time 8.48am AEST

Twitter corro The Matt Hatter is out of the blocks early, already flagging the
flag count for any citizenship announcement.

enltr @gabriellechan A good & hearty hale fellow well met to you. Today's tip -
put your $ on 8 flags in the courtyard. pic.twitter.com/zGTO5iSJKq

- The Matt Hatter (@MattGlassDarkly) June 22, 2015

block-time published-time 8.43am AEST

Very nice Mr Bowers.

Julie Bishop at a press conference. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the Guardian

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.01am AEST

block-time published-time 8.34am AEST

And Julie Bishop also addressed the citizenship legislation. She thinks the work
has now been done to address the concerns. Of course, the concerns raised were
not so much in the party room as the cabinet. In fact Dan Tehan presented a
petition of backbenchers to support Tony Abbott going even further to strip
citizenship from Australians who merely had an option of dual citizenship. That
option was a bit of a red rag to a bull in the cabinet room and was shunted off
to the discussion paper.

It's all good now though, says Bishop. She is happy with the legislation.

The draft legislation is yet to be presented to the party room but I'm confident
that the government has addressed the concerns that were raised in the last
couple of - weeks. We've considered a number of options and I believe we've come
up with an appropriate draft piece of legislation.

block-time published-time 8.26am AEST

In the past month, reports surfaced that Khaled Sharrouf's family was trying to
get back to Australia. His wife Tara Nettleton and their five children have
requested a return to Australia.

Last month Tony Abbott did not countenance their return. At the same time, the
immigration minister, Peter Dutton, said they would face "serious consequences"
when they returned. (Though whether they can now return is in question.)

The issue for Nettleton is that she has travelled to a proscribed area under the
foreign fighters laws, which carries a penalty of up to 10 years.

Here is an exchange between AM presenter Michael Brissenden and Peter Dutton on
27 May.

And if they're in proscribed areas and they don't have a reason for being there,
if they've been involved in supporting terrorists or involved in activities
directly themselves, they will face the full force of the law when they return
to Australia.

BRISSENDEN: OK, and the children?

Well the children, as I say, it depends on the circumstance, the ages of the
children. If they're infants, for example, then they would be in state care, as
we've seen with some people who have decided to abandon their children and go
off and fight in the name of Isil. So those arrangements would operate as they
would with any family where parents have abandoned their children or not acting
in the best interests of their children.

This morning Julie Bishop was not entering the debate. One thing at a time
please.

These are details we'll consider once the reports have been verified one way or
another. The circumstances of the families will be considered once the reports
have been verified.

I won't go into the details of the family's circumstances. We are aware of the
family. We are aware of the fact that Mr Sharrouf, for example, used his son to
hold up the severed head of a Syrian fighter, so it's alleged, for the purposes
of seeking to attract others to this brutal cause.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.03am AEST

block-time published-time 8.15am AEST

Sharrouf and Elomar were relatively high-profile fighters in the Isis world. The
photos of Sharrouf's son holding the head of a soldier were published worldwide.
Julie Bishop was asked about their pull.

We've had feedback from our intelligence agencies that they were being used as
part of a recruitment campaign. Daesh has been using quite sophisticated online
media techniques to recruit people and my message to young people in particular
in Australia is that it is a crime to support or take up arms or fight with
Daesh or other terrorist organisations and that you are putting your life in
mortal danger if you travel to Iraq and Syria and you're also adding to the
misery and the suffering of the people of Iraq and Syria if you support Daesh
and similar terrorist organisations.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.03am AEST

block-time published-time 8.10am AEST

Julie Bishop has been asked if the deaths of Sharrouf and Elomar will deter
people from taking up arms with Isis or encourage others to join the cause.

These two men are not martyrs. They are criminal thugs who have been carrying
out brutal terrorist attacks, putting people's lives in danger. They boast of
the brutality and violence they have been meting out to people, they boast of
having sexual slaves. They are carry out terrorist activities and that's why
they've been listed as terrorists.

block-time published-time 8.06am AEST

Julie Bishop has confirmed that Sharrouf and Elomar had their passports
cancelled already by the Australian government on the grounds they posed a risk
to Australia.

Both men had been listed as terrorists under the UN Security Council resolution
dealing with foreign terrorist fighters. But she says their deaths have been
difficult to confirm because Australia has very little presence in Iraq on the
ground.

It is very difficult for us because we have an embassy in Baghdad but we don't
have one in Damascus but of course, given the security situation in Iraq it's
difficult for our authorities to gain the kind of information that would be
required to verify these reports that these men have been killed.

block-time published-time 8.01am AEST

Good morning blogans,

On a crisp clear morning in Canberra, the magpies are chortling as the
commonwealth cars stream into the building under the flag.

And there will be a lot of flag waving today as the Coalition party room
considers legislation that we can only assume was taken to the cabinet room last
night. That legislation aims to strip dual nationals of their Australian
citizenship if they are involved in terrorist activities. The test for
involvement is the key here - whether by courts or ministerial discretion or
both - and we will have to await the details.

You will remember the original proposal, by ministerial discretion alone, was
rejected by members of cabinet in a spectacular leak that could have been
transcribed by my former shorthand teacher, such was its accuracy.

Feeding into the party room political play is the news, released overnight, that
Isis recruits Khaled Sharrouf and Mohammed Elomar were killed in the past week
following fighting in Mosul. Foreign minister Julie Bishop confirmed there have
been drone strikes in the past week but she cannot yet confirm the deaths of
Elomar and Sharrouf. The latter was the individual that had pictures of his
child holding the severed head of a Syrian fighter.

So that news provides the backdrop for the debate that will ensue in the party
room today. We shall have the news to you as soon as possible. Join us for all
of this and more. Keep the conversation going below and on Twitter
@gabriellechan and @mpbowers.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Midweek Herald

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Seaton man is cleared of terror knife attack

BYLINE: Aisha Clarke

SECTION: FRNT

LENGTH: 305 words


A former Seaton man has been cleared of menacing a stranger with a knife after
telling a jury he was the victim of mistaken identity.

Ashley Brennan was found not guilty at Exeter Crown Court after a jury heard
that another man's DNA was recovered from a blood spot found on a car after the
incident.



He said he was not part of a group of youths who surrounded a terrified
motorist's car in Emmanuel Road, in Exeter, before one of them thrust a
Rambo-style knife through the driver's window.

Brennan was supposed to be wearing a distinctive T-shirt with a cartoon
character on it, but he said he had never owned a shirt like that.

Driver Lee Shambis drove off in terror and called the police, who later
recovered a DNA sample from his BMW car which came from another man who has
previous convictions for carrying a knife.

Brennan, aged 22, formerly of Marine Crescent, Seaton, denied the offence and
was found not guilty of affray, possessing a knife, and breaking an antisocial
behaviour order.

He will remain in custody because he is serving a sentence for another offence.

During the trial Mr Shambis said he was waiting to pick up his girlfriend when
four youths came up to the car and two approached the window. When he wound it
down one of them pulled a knife and waved it in his face.

He reversed away but the knifeman slashed at his grille and headlights, causing
minor damage.

Brennan said he was not in the street at the time and was not the man in the
cartoon T-shirt. He was cleared after Recorder Stephen Climie gave the jury a
series of special warnings about identification evidence and told them that
honest and otherwise reliable witnesses can make genuine mistakes.

Brennan is subject to an ASBO banning him from Exeter city centre and has more
than 20 convictions for criminal damage, dishonesty and public order offences.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EMH


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday

Pakistan report notes increase in terror attacks on pro-state peace committees

LENGTH: 438 words


Text of report in English published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn on 3 September

The suicide blast outside the offices of the political administrator in Jamrud,
Khyber Agency on Tuesday broke the relative calm in that particular tehsil of
the agency this year.

Even otherwise, since the military quietly wrapped up Operation Khyber-II in
mid-June, having ejected militants from Bara tehsil and the Tirah subdivision
and secured two of three passes linking the Tirah valley to Afghanistan, the
agency has been fairly secure.

Yet, the suicide bombing may be part of an emerging pattern that can be traced
to an increase in IED attacks in the Mohmand and Bajaur agencies and an uptick
in attacks on members of so-called pro-state peace committees.

The most likely candidate for orchestrating the recent attacks is the Ahrar
faction of the banned TTP, which is believed to have found sanctuary on the
Afghan side of the border. That the military operations in the upper reaches of
Fata, and indeed in North Waziristan Agency too, have dislodged militants and
caused them to flee to Afghanistan is not really news.

The new aspect may be the effect that the deteriorating Pak-Afghan relationship
is having on the ability of anti-Pakistan militants to hide in Afghanistan and
strike inside Pakistan.

Has the nosedive in Pak-Afghan relations, the increasing hawkishness on display
in Kabul when it comes to Pakistan and a sense of pessimism that the bilateral
relationship won't stabilise anytime soon contributed directly or indirectly to
the uptick in militant violence in parts of Fata?

Put simply, are the Afghan authorities either turning a blind eye to or possibly
encouraging attacks in Fata to retaliate to the surge in bombings and attacks
inside Afghan?

Tit-for-tat attacks are not unheard of in the region and it does appear that
they may be at play once again. If that is indeed the case, great caution - and
an even greater degree of frank discussions - will be needed to help stabilise
the Pak-Afghan relationship and clamp down on cross-border militant movements.

Caution is necessary because it is all too easy for another round of damaging
accusations and recriminations to break out in public. Frank talk is needed if
the two countries are going to be able to address their respective security
concerns.

As the dust appears to settle around the collapse of talks between the Afghan
Taliban and Kabul, it has become increasingly clear that fundamental issues
between Pakistan and Afghanistan were not addressed, let alone resolved. That
mistake must not be repeated going forward.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 03 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Clacton and Frinton Gazette

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday

Family tells of arson attack terror after early-morning letterbox blaze

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 110 words


A DAD has spoken about the terrifying moment arsonists set fire to a charity bag
in his letterbox while his family slept upstairs.

The arsonists randomly targeted the home in Gilders Way, Clacton, between 1.30am
and 1.45am on Sunday.

They set fire to an empty charity clothes bag that the familyhad pushed back
through their letterbox to be collected.

Smoke filled the house as dad Gary Allan, mum Julie and daughter Abbie, 12, were
asleep upstairs. Mr Allan, 41, said: "I'm just happy that my family are all
safe, but if it had happened the week before when we were on holiday we could
have lost the whole house."

Read the full story in the Clacton Gazette, out now.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday

Teenage girl on trial charged with planning terror attack

SECTION: NEWS AGENDA

LENGTH: 92 words


Silhan Ozcelik, 18, of Highbury, north London, on trial charged with preparing
to carry out a terror attack after being arrested at Stansted Airport following
a flight from Germany on 16 Jan. The charge relates to an offence which
allegedly took place between 1 and 27 Oct 2014 after allegedly travelling to by
train from London to Brussels and attempting to join the Kurdistan Workers'
Party based in Germany to fight against the Islamic State group (IS, formerly
known as ISIS) in Syria. T2015 7096

Event Start Date: 2015-09-07

Event End Date: 2015-09-07

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

14th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS AGENDA

LENGTH: 128 words


14th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks on America, in which 2,983 people
died when militants linked to al-Qaida hijacked four planes, crashing two into
the World Trade Center in New York and one into the Pentagon, before the fourth
was brought down in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
 Commemoration ceremony at New York's National September 11 Memorial and Museum
begins with national moment of silence held at 08:46 EDT, before the names of
victims are read out by family members, with breaks for moments of silence at
times the second plane struck South Tower (09:03), Flight 77 struck the Pentagon
(09:37), the fall of South Tower (09:59), Flight 93 crashing (10:03), and the
fall of North Tower (10:28)

Event Start Date: 2015-09-11

Event End Date: 2015-09-11

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      September 4, 2015 Friday 5:45 PM GMT

'I thought it was a bomb': Teacher arrested for crashing drone into US Open
stand during match prompting fears over possible terror attack

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words



     ·    Brooklyn teacher Daniel Verley, 26, charged with reckless endangerment
     ·    Flavia Pennetta was playing Louis Armstrong Stadium when drone landed
     ·    The Italian tennis player said she thought the drone was a bomb
     ·    No one was injured after the drone crashed into a row of empty seats
     ·    NYPD officers arrested Verley early Friday and he also faces a charge
          of operating a drone in a New York public park outside a prescribed
          area


A teacher has been arrested after the drone he was allegedly flying crashed into
a stand during the middle of a match at the US Open tennis tournament on
Thursday night.

The small black drone hit an empty section of seats in the Louis Armstrong
Stadium before breaking into pieces, leading one of the players to fear the
10,000-seat stadium was under attack and that the device was a bomb.

The NYPD confirmed that Daniel Verley, 26, was arrested early Friday and is
facing charges of reckless endangerment and operating a drone in a New York
public park outside a prescribed area.

Scroll down for video

Flavia Pennetta from Italy beat Monica Niculescu from Romania despite the
strange interruption.

The drone flew into the Louis Armstrong stadium during the closing stages of the
game at 8.30pm local time which Pennetta won 6-1, 6-4.

Speaking after her victory, Pennetta said she thought it might have been a bomb.



'A little bit scary, I have to say,' Pennetta said.

'With everything going on in the world... I thought, OK, it's over. That's how
things happen.'

'The chair umpire just wanted to wait for an OK from the police to be able to
continue, even if, truthfully, I don't think even they knew what it was.

'All of these (security measures), and then it comes in from above,' Pennetta
said.

'If there had been spectators, it would have hit them and done a lot of damage.'



She said her coach and physical therapist were sitting in the opposite end of
the stadium from where the drone crashed and they told her later they were
afraid, too.

US Tennis Association spokesman Chris Widmaier confirmed that no one was injured
during the incident.

Pennetta and Niculescu originally were scheduled to play on much smaller Court
17, but their match was moved because four earlier matches in Armstrong wrapped
up early.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      September 4, 2015 Friday 1:29 PM GMT

'I thought it was a bomb': Teacher arrested for crashing drone into US Open
stand during match prompting fears over possible terror attack

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words



     ·    Flavia Pennetta was cruising to victory when the drone buzzed the
          court
     ·    The Italian tennis player said she thought the drone was a bomb
     ·    No one was injured after the drone crashed into a row of empty seats
     ·    NYPD officers arrested teacher Daniel Verley over the alleged incident




A teacher has been arrested after the drone he was allegedly flying crashed into
a stand during the middle of a match at the US Open tennis tournament.

The small black drone hit an empty section of seats in the Louis Armstrong
stadium before breaking up, leading one of the players to fear the 10,000-seat
stadium was under attack.

The NYPD confirmed that Daniel Verley, 26, is facing charges of reckless
endangerment and operating a done in a New York public park outside a prescribed
area.

Flavia Pennetta from Italy managed to beat Monica Niculescu from Romania despite
the strange interruption.

The drone flew into the Louis Armstrong stadium during the closing stages of the
game at 8.30pm local time which Pennetta won 6-1, 6-4.

Speaking after her victory, Pennetta said she thought it might have been a bomb.



She said it was 'a little bid scary.

'With everything going on in the world... I thought, OK, it's over. That's how
things happen.'

'The chair umpire just wanted to wait for an OK from the police to be able to
continue, even if, truthfully, I don't think even they knew what it was.'

All of these (security measures), and then it comes in from above,' Pennetta
said.

'If there had been spectators, it would have hit them and done a lot of damage.'



She said her coach and physical therapist were sitting in the opposite end of
the stadium from where the drone crashed and they told her later they were
afraid, too.

US Tennis Association spokesman Chris Widmaier confirmed that no one was injured
during the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

Pakistan security forces foil terror attack in Quetta

LENGTH: 283 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on 5 September

Islamabad: Security forces have arrested a suspected terrorist who was planning
to carry out attacks in Quetta on the occasion of Defence Day.

The suspected terrorist was arrested from Quetta in an intelligence-based
operation, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said in a statement.

The statement issued from the army's General Headquarters (GHQ) in Rawalpindi
said that security forces recovered a remote-controlled improvised explosive
device (IED) from the suspect's possession. Moreover, some six kilogrammes of
explosives and nuts and bolts were also recovered from the arrested man.

The ISPR said security personnel defused another IED that had already been
planted at the site from where the man was arrested. It added that during the
preliminary probe, the suspected terrorist, whose name has not been revealed,
had confessed to having links with India's premier intelligence agency, the
Research and Analysis Wing (RAW).

During questioning, the man also confessed to planting IEDs in Quetta on two
occasions in the past, incidents in which several people were killed.

The arrest comes as the country prepares to pay homage to the martyrs of the
1965 War, an occasion where the nation will reaffirm its resolve to defend the
country as it did that year in case of a similar threat in the future.

Pakistan will be observing the 50th anniversary of the war this year, with a
one-minute silence to be observed across the country from 9:29am to 9:30am on
Sunday (Sept 6), and special prayers to be held for the martyrs along with
special programmes to commemorate them.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 05 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

Double terror attack on Cameroon's Far North Region leaves 19 dead, 140 injured

LENGTH: 154 words


A double suicide attack on local market and health centre in Kerewa area of Far
North Region of Cameroon on 3 September killed 19 people and injured 141 others,
French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France Internationale reported on 3
September.

Polycarpe Essomba, RFI reporter in the Cameroonian capital, Yaounde, said the
attack in Kerewa, a locality close to the Nigerian border, coincided with the
gradual setting up of the multinational joint force whose commanders met in
Fotokol on 3 September to commend the taking of Gambaru by Nigerian forces
working in collaboration with Cameroonian and Chadian contingents.

RFI said Kerewa is one of the villages most exposed to attacks by the West
African Province of the Islamic State [formerly Boko Haram]. The hill in the
area is located on Nigerian soil and the jihadists have many bases behind it.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 1930 gmt 3 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

Cameroonian authorities launch investigations as terror attack death toll rises

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by Radio France Internationale website on 5 September

After the wave of sadness, Kerawa is trying this morning to come to terms with
what happened. The locality saw its security beefed up. Civil and military
authorities in the region held a crisis meeting late morning in Mora town. The
consolidated outcome of the double attack, meanwhile, rose to 30 dead and 141
injured.

On the attacks and identity of suicide bombers, a military source said
investigations was under way. We know that the suicide bombers were women. The
same source added that the two suicide bombers were probably from neighboring
Nigeria, but beyond Kerawa, the entire Far North region has once again been
shaken by the incident.

Already hard-hit in June by attacks in Fotokol and Maroua towns, all departments
in the region took drastic security measures that everyone hoped would deter
terror attacks but the jihadists were not at all hindered. People are upset that
the authorities are quick to call for calm and serenity.

Source: Radio France Internationale website, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 5 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

17 killed in terror attack;
AROUND THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 44 words


SEVENTEEN people have been killed in clashes in Tajikistan.

The south Asian country said eight policemen died in the attacks near the
capital Dushanbe.

Officials blamed sacked Deputy Defence Minister Gen Aduhalim Nazarzoda and
claimed he was leading a "terrorist group".

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 5, 2015 Saturday 8:27 PM GMT

Tunisia massacre widow shot five times wants husband's funeral delayed so she
can say goodbye;
Allison Heathcote spent three weeks in a coma and remains in hospital following
the beach terror attack which her husband Philip was killed

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words


A widow shot five times in the Tunisian beach massacre has begged for her
slaughtered husband's funeral to be delayed so she can be at his side when he is
buried.

Allison Heathcote, 48, is still in hospital and spent three weeks in a coma
after Seifeddine Rezgui's gun rampage left Philip, her husband of 30 years, and
36 others dead.

For more than two months his body has been in a mortuary as she clung to life.

But now, after a miracle recovery, heartbroken Allison has told relatives: "I
want to pay my final respects."

She was blasted five times, with three bullets puncturing her bowel and two
shattering her shoulder.

Now Allison has been transferred by air ambulance from a unit in Birmingham's
Queen Elizabeth Hospital to one near her home town of Felixstowe.

And her family have revealed they are hoping to hold his funeral this month.

Her brother Jonty Boon, 39, said: "She's made a remarkable recovery and the
doctors are really pleased with how she is progressing.

"She will need further surgery but she remembers everything about the shooting -
she saw Philip being shot so she knew he had died. She recalls the shooting, the
screaming.

"They were both on the sun loungers - they just stood absolutely no chance."

Allison rolled off her lounger and played dead.

The image of her in a pink bikini being stretchered from the beach remains one
of the most haunting images from the massacre on June 26.

Her husband, 53, was among 30 Brits who lost their lives when IS-trained Rezqui
targeted tourists with an assault rifle as they sunbathed on the beach outside
the five-star all-inclusive Imperial Marhaba hotel in the resort of Sousse.

The couple had celebrated their 30th wedding anniversary just days earlier.

Originally the family were wrongly told Allison had died and Philip had
survived.

Jonty and nephew James, 27, flew out to bring them home. "We thought we were
going out there to say goodbye," Jonty said.

Paying tribute to Philip, he added: "We are all really close. I've known Philip
since I was six.

"You hear a lot of people say things like this, but he was my brother, he was a
brother to all of us. He really was a great guy, a really lovely guy."

Tunisia beach massacre reveals she can barely remember attack that killed
husband

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

On this day;
Munich Olympics are suspended after terrorist attack

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 83

LENGTH: 377 words


The Times, September 7, 1972 Guerrillas belonging to the Black September
extremist Palestinian group killed two Israelis when they occupied the team's
headquarters in the Olympic Village at dawn today. They threatened to kill
others if their demands for the release of 200 named Palestinian prisoners held
in Israel jails were not met. At their request an aircraft was drawn up ready
for takeoff on the tarmac at Munich airport. Herr Willy Brandt, the West German
chancellor, returned from Kiel to Munich to take charge of negotiations between
the West German authorities and the guerrillas. He took over from Herr
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the minister of the interior, and the head of the Munich
police, Herr Manfred Schreiber. The Egyptian team announced that they were
withdrawing from the Games. A spokesman said that they were unable to take part
in the "present difficult circumstances". Mark Spitz, the American swimmer who
is a Jew, left Munich hurriedly taking his record seven Olympic gold medals with
him. He said he was afraid he might be the object of a further Palestinian
attack. The announcement that the Games were being postponed was made by Mr
Avery Brundage, the outgoing president of the International Olympic Committee,
who said "The Olympic peace has been broken by an act of assassination by
criminal terrorists."

A Black September terrorist during the occupation at the Olympic village Births:
Louis XIV, King of France (1643-1715), known as the Sun King, born in
Saint-Germain-en-Laye, 1638; Johann Christian Bach, composer, born in Leipzig,
Germany, 1735; John Wisden, cricketer and founder of the annual bearing his
name, born in Brighton, Sussex, 1826; Jesse James, outlaw, born near
Centerville, Missouri, 1847; Russell Harty, broadcaster, born in Blackburn,
Lancashire, 1934; Freddie Mercury, singer and songwriter, born in Stone Town,
Zanzibar, 1946.

Deaths: William McGillivray, naturalist, died in Aberdeen, 1852; Auguste Comte,
founder of Positivism, died in Paris, 1857; Charles Py, poet and philosopher,
died near Villeroy, France, 1914; Sir Douglas Bader, Second World War fighter
pilot, died in London, 1982; Mother Teresa, founder of the Missionaries of
Charity, and Nobel Peace laureate (1979), died in Calcutta, India, 1997.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      September 7, 2015 Monday 8:40 AM GMT

Terror as Northern Ireland man is attacked by an elephant in Africa

BYLINE: By Suzanne Breen

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 576 words


This is the terrifying moment when an elephant attacks a Northern Ireland man on
holiday in Africa.

Stephen Montague was sitting with relatives in a restaurant in Zimbabwe when the
animal swung its massive trunk at them, throwing them off their chairs.

Stephen's brother-in-law was wounded when the elephant's tusks cut into him. The
family, who are on a photographic safari, seem to have had a lucky escape.

The animal went away when guards in the complex intervened. While elephants are
generally not aggressive, males can be volatile and attack humans. Around 500
people a year are killed by elephants.

The dramatic video of the elephant charging at the tourists was posted on
YouTube at the weekend. Last night, Stephen's parents told the Belfast Telegraph
they were relieved that he had escaped without injury.

Speaking from his home in Beragh, Co Tyrone, his father Paddy said: "He is OK
and he is continuing with his holiday in Zimbabwe.

He wouldn't let something like that stop him. He loves to go where the action
is."

Stephen (39), his American wife Shannon and her family are visiting Mana Pools,
a wildlife conservation area in northern Zimbabwe. They were sitting down to
dinner in a restaurant in the national park when a bull elephant wandered over.

The party were delighted. "It's another boy ... a big boy," someone is heard to
say.

The animal searched for food on the ground and a guard threw it something.

The elephant, which was just a few feet away from the group, started to twist
its trunk and flapped its outstretched ears. It looked at them, then moved over
slowly.

It swung its trunk at Stephen, sending him flying from his chair. It pulled back
its trunk, then swung it at his brother-in-law, Shane Wolf, knocking him from
his seat.

The animal slightly injured Shane when it put its tusks into him. He is seen at
the end of the video lifting his shirt to show the marks it left.

Some plates, cutlery and glasses from the table were overturned during the
assault. The guards at the complex clapped their hands and made noises to chase
the elephant away. Stephen, Shannon, her father Mitch and Shane remained
remarkably calm during the incident.

Stephen, who renovates houses, lived with Shannon in Northern Ireland until they
moved to California earlier this year.

His mother Patricia said it wasn't the first safari trip the couple had been on.
"These kind of holidays with wild animals wouldn't be for me but Stephen and
Shannon love them.

"They took what happened in their stride. The elephant wandered into the
compound looking for something to eat.

"One of the guards threw it something but that made it bolder and it headed over
to the table. Stephen is fine and that's what is most important to us," she
said.

In Africa and India, bull elephants have been known to attack entire villages,
killing people and destroying homes.

One reason for males becoming aggressive and violent is their state of 'musth'.
The word is Hindi for madness and is a time during which testosterone levels in
the animals may rocket to 60 times higher than normal.

This is a period of increased sexual activity for the bull. In violent attacks,
elephants have picked people up with their trunks and hurled them to the ground.
They have also battered or impaled them with their tusks.

Far more often though it is elephants which are at the receiving end of human
violence. Conservation groups claim that around 20,000 are killed by poachers
every year for their ivory.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            September 7, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as Northern Ireland man is attacked by an elephant in Africa

BYLINE: SUZANNE BREEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words


THIS is the terrifying moment when an elephant attacks a Northern Ireland man on
holiday in Africa.

Stephen Montague was sitting with relatives in a restaurant in Zimbabwe when the
animal swung its massive trunk at them, throwing them off their chairs.

Stephen's brother-inlaw was wounded when the elephant's tusks cut into him. The
family, who are on a photographic safari, seem to have had a lucky escape.

The animal went away when guards in the complex intervened. While elephants are
generally not aggressive, males can be volatile and attack humans. Around 500
people a year are killed by elephants.

The dramatic video of the elephant charging at the tourists was posted on
YouTube at the weekend. Last night, Stephen's parents told the Belfast Telegraph
they were relieved that he had escaped without injury. Speaking from his home in
Beragh, Co Tyrone, his father Paddy said: "He is OK and he is continuing with
his holiday in Zimbabwe.

He wouldn't let something like that stop him. He loves to go where the action
is."

Stephen (39), his American wife Shannon and her family are visiting Mana Pools,
a wildlife conservation area in northern Zimbabwe. They were sitting down to
dinner in a restaurant in the national park when a bull elephant wandered over.

The party were delighted. "It's another boy ... a big boy," someone is heard to
say.

The animal searched for food on the ground and a guard threw it something.

The elephant, which was just a few feet away from the group, started to twist
its trunk and flapped its outstretched ears. It looked at them, then moved over
slowly.

It swung its trunk at Stephen, sending him flying from his chair. It pulled back
its trunk, then swung it at his brother-inlaw, Shane Wolf, knocking him from his
seat.

The animal slightly injured Shane when it put its tusks into him. He is seen at
the end of the video lifting his shirt to show the marks it left.

Some plates, cutlery and glasses from the table were overturned during the
assault. The guards at the complex clapped their hands and made noises to chase
the elephant away. Stephen, Shannon, her father Mitch and Shane remained
remarkably calm during the incident.

Stephen, who renovates houses, lived with Shannon in Northern Ireland until they
moved to California earlier this year.

His mother Patricia said it wasn't the first safari trip the couple had been on.
"These kind of holidays with wild animals wouldn't be for me but Stephen and
Shannon love them.

"They took what happened in their stride. The elephant wandered into the
compound looking for something to eat.

"One of the guards threw it something but that made it bolder and it headed over
to the table. Stephen is fine and that's what is most important to us," she
said.

In Africa and India, bull elephants have been known to attack entire villages,
killing people and destroying homes. One reason for males becoming aggressive
and violent is their state of 'musth'. The word is Hindi for madness and is a
time during which testosterone levels in the animals may rocket to 60 times
higher than normal.

This is a period of increased sexual activity for the bull. In violent attacks,
elephants have picked people up with their trunks and hurled them to the ground.
They have also battered or impaled them with their tusks.

Far more often though it is elephants which are at the receiving end of human
violence. Conservation groups claim that around 20,000 are killed by poachers
every year for their ivory.

You can see the dramatic video of the elephant attack on our website,
www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk

'A guard threw the elephant something; that made it bolder and it headed over to
the table'

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            September 7, 2015 Monday

Terrorist-Style Attacks By Drug Cartels Pose Significant Risk

LENGTH: 3242  words



HIGHLIGHT: Businesses in Mexico face a high risk of becoming victim to violent,
terrorist-style activity, due to the widespread and entrenched presence of
transnational criminal organisations (TCOs). The violent conduct of these
groups, and their ongoing conflict with the Mexican state, which has included
gun battles, bombings and assassinations, frequently resembles terrorist
activity which has the potential to affect business property and innocent
bystanders. The lawlessness in some regions has also led to fears that the
country will be exploited by international terrorist groups looking to target
the US; however Mexico itself is low on the list of targets for such
organisations as al-Qaeda or Islamic State. The government's balanced and
non-interventionist foreign policy has not seen it aligned with the US in
conflicts such as Afghanistan and Iraq, reducing the risk of a retaliatory
attack by an extremist Islamist organisation, and there are no outstanding
disputes with neighbouring states which could lead to war.


Businesses in Mexico face a high risk of becoming victim to violent,
terrorist-style activity, due to the widespread and entrenched presence of
transnational criminal organisations (TCOs). The violent conduct of these
groups, and their ongoing conflict with the Mexican state, which has included
gun battles, bombings and assassinations, frequently resembles terrorist
activity which has the potential to affect business property and innocent
bystanders. The lawlessness in some regions has also led to fears that the
country will be exploited by international terrorist groups looking to target
the US; however Mexico itself is low on the list of targets for such
organisations as al-Qaeda or Islamic State. The government's balanced and
non-interventionist foreign policy has not seen it aligned with the US in
conflicts such as Afghanistan and Iraq, reducing the risk of a retaliatory
attack by an extremist Islamist organisation, and there are no outstanding
disputes with neighbouring states which could lead to war. Nevertheless, the
vulnerability of businesses and their staff to the violent activities of drug
cartels means that Mexico performs poorly in the Conflict Risk pillar of BMI's
Crime and Security Risk Index, scoring 41.3 out of 100, which places the country
27th out of 42 Latin American states.

Terrorism and Political Violence Risk


The nature and intensity of the violence inflicted by Mexican drug cartels has
created a climate of terror in Mexico which puts business property and workers
at risk and significantly undermines the country's appeal as an investment
destination. TCOs are engaged in a range of criminal activities, which target
legitimate businesses, as well as violent confrontations with other gangs or
with the security forces that create an environment of insecurity. As many of
these attacks are enacted by drug cartels which utilise the tactics of terrorist
groups, including kidnappings, shootings and bombings, they are often labelled
as narcoterrorism. Although private firms are not the primary targets of TCOs,
business property and workers are still at risk from indiscriminate attacks or
collateral damage. One reason for the success of drug cartels in Mexico is the
collusion of members of the security services and political establishment, due
either to coercion or bribery, which severely hinders the ability to effectively
counter drug cartels. A concerted military effort against the cartels since 2006
has militarised the conflict without significantly reducing the power and
influence of TCOs. As a result, Mexico receives a very low score of 3.3 out of
100 for Terrorism and Political Violence Risk, ranking at the bottom of the
regional pack in Latin America and eighth from bottom on a global comparison.

Terrorist Threat

The widespread power and influence of drug cartels in Mexico has led to a rise
in narcoterrorism and increased the risk that business property and workers will
become victims of violence even if it is not specifically targeted against them.
Although these groups have limited ideological, religious or social motivations,
their attacks are often similar in organisation, style and targets to more
conventional terrorist activity.

There are six principal TCOs currently operating in Mexico, in addition to
numerous older, smaller and more local organisations and vigilante groups. These
are the Juarez Cartel, the Sinaloa Cartel, Los Zetas, Jalisco Cartel, Knights
Templar, and Beltran Leyva (BLO). Due to the government crackdown initiated by
President Felipe Calderon in 2006, the violent activity of cartels has
intensified as the conflict between security services and organised crime has
become militarised. This has also led to a splintering of TCOs and a
diversification of their activities from drug trafficking to other forms of
crime and violence, including narcoterrorism. This shift has increased the risk
that businesses and foreign workers will become victims of these attacks, as
violence has become more public and indiscriminate.

There have been a number of high-profile incidents in recent years which could
be regarded as narcoterrorist attacks, many of which have been perpetrated by
the Los Zetas cartel. Arguably the most violent TCO in Mexico, the group is
unafraid to launch attacks against the state, private businesses, and innocent
civilians, and has been known to engage in fire-fights with the security forces.
Engagements between the military and drug cartels have increased in intensity in
2015, which has seen some of the most deadly attacks against Mexican security
forces in recent years, including an ambush which resulted in the death of 15
soldiers in April, and the shooting down of an army helicopter in May. In August
2010, members of Los Zetas committed one of the worst terrorist-style attacks of
recent years when they massacred 72 illegal immigrants in Tamaulipas. Though
this was not aimed at businesses or their staff per se, it demonstrates the
brutality of attacks which TCOs are capable of in Mexico.

The Los Zetas cartel has also been responsible for a number of other serious
attacks. In 2008, the group detonated a number of grenades during the Mexican
Independence Day celebrations in the town of Morelia in central Mexico, which
killed at least eight and injured 100 civilians, police personnel and gang
members. In 2011, a casino in Monterrey was stormed by Los Zetas gunmen,
resulting in 52 deaths. These incidents all bore the hallmarks of traditional
terrorist-style attacks in terms of organisation and execution, and demonstrate
the potential risks to foreign businesses and workers from indiscriminate
attacks. The widespread presence of cartels means that attacks may place
anywhere in Mexico, although they are most likely to affect businesses in areas
where TCOs boast the strongest presence, including Jalisco, Michoacan, Sinaloa,
Guerrero, Durango, Veracruz, Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon and Chihuahua states.

Businesses and their employees are also now being targeted explicitly by drug
cartels, particularly those in extractive industries. Many TCOs have adopted the
terrorist tactic of abducting workers and demanding ransoms, with kidnapping
becoming a serious risk for staff in remote or lawless regions. Over 50
employees of the national oil company, Pemex, have been kidnapped in the last 10
years, and staff are now required to travel in military convoys or helicopters
through some regions as the presence of TCOs makes them too dangerous. As the
Mexican hydrocarbons industry is opened up to greater participation by private
and foreign companies, the risk of employees being abducted is one which will
have to be considered seriously. This may necessitate partnerships with the
military or hiring armed security guards for work in some locations,
particularly the northern states which border the US.

One positive is that, as a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Mexico is a
relatively unattractive target for international terrorist groups as it is not
overtly affiliated to a global power bloc. In addition, Mexico has remained
aloof from the US-led 'War on Terror' in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere,
meaning a retaliatory attack by an international terrorist group such as
al-Qaeda on Mexican soil is highly unlikely. There is the potential for Mexico
to become a transit point for terrorist cells aiming to infiltrate and attack
the US, although this is not likely to pose a threat to businesses in Mexico.
The US government is aware of the threat that international terrorist groups may
seek to infiltrate the country through Mexico, and consequently co-operates
extensively with Mexican intelligence agencies in counter-terrorism efforts and
border security.

Counter Terrorism

Security forces in Mexico face a continual struggle against the drug cartels,
which they have not been able to successfully neutralise, despite US assistance
and a large-scale military campaign which has been ongoing since 2006. The
successful infiltration of the police and military by criminal gangs has
severely undermined their ability to prevent the cartels activities and bring
them to justice, while brutal force used by the military has further eroded
public trust. Mexican intelligence agencies cooperate extensively with their US
counterparts and other regional bodies, however, and the country receives
considerable military aid from Washington which aids the development of Mexico's
security forces.

The main intelligence organisation in Mexico is the Centre for Research and
National Security (CISEN), assisted by the intelligence arms of the army, navy,
air force, and the Office of the Attorney General. Counter-narcotics operations
have been increasingly shifted to the army as part of the campaign against the
drug cartels, but CISEN remains responsible for collating and analysing
intelligence regarding internal and external security threats. CISEN receives US
support through the provision of training and equipment and the promotion of
interagency law enforcement cooperation, thereby strengthening the capability of
security services to counter terrorist threats. The US has further increased its
assistance and funding to the Mexican security services in response to the
escalating military efforts against the drug cartels, and intelligence ties
between the two states are strong. Mexico also participates in the Organisation
of American States (OAS) Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism to improve
regional cooperation and intelligence sharing, and hosted the Global Initiative
to Combat Nuclear Terrorism in 2013, indicating the willingness to engage in
counter-terrorism operations.

However, the ability of the security services to successfully tackle the
activities of drug cartels and the terrorism threat they pose is hamstrung by
extensive corruption and connections with the criminal underworld among law
enforcement agents. Mexico's security forces often lack the funding, despite US
aid, and organisational capabilities enjoyed by many of the criminal
organisations which operate in the country. In addition, many operatives within
the state security apparatus have developed close links to the criminal
underworld, either through coercion or the acceptance of bribes, blurring the
lines between law enforcement and illegal groups and disrupting attempts to
tackle TCOs. The Federal Police has been the primary federal law enforcement
entity to respond to narcoterrorist threats and attacks, but military-style
assaults and street battles have not had the effect of diminishing the power and
influence of TCOs, which have simply re-grouped and diversified their
activities. Similarly, the military and naval forces deployed to the conflict
lack police skills and have been accused of human rights violations, further
undermining public trust in the security services.

Interstate Conflict Risk

In contrast to the internal strife underway in Mexico, the risk of a conflict
with another state is extremely low, conferring an advantage to businesses which
is nonetheless outweighed by the impact of the activities of drug cartels.
Mexico enjoys cordial relationships with neighbouring states, and although it
left the Rio collective defence treaty in 2004, the US would not countenance any
interference in Mexico's affairs by another foreign power. Mexico's armed forces
are large and well equipped, having received funding and training assistance
from the US. Although it has struggled to eradicate criminal groups, the Mexican
military would be capable of repelling a potential aggressor. Consequently,
Mexico receives the second highest score in Latin America for Interstate
Conflict Risk, at 79.3 out of 100, placing it just behind Brazil.

Likelihood of Conflict

Mexico's lack of disputes with its immediate neighbours, and its close
relationship with the US, ensures that it has a secure and stable international
security environment. The country has not been involved in a regional conflict
since the 19th century and any outstanding border issues are settled by
diplomatic means. There are some tensions surrounding the US-Mexican border,
which has traditionally seen huge numbers of illegal migrants attempt to enter
the US, and has also been the centre of much drug trafficking and other illicit
activities. However, the close relationship between the two states and
cooperation over security and border issues mean that any dispute with
Washington is highly unlikely to descend into armed conflict. In addition,
Mexico has a similarly close political and economic relationship with other
Central and South American countries, and its membership of several multilateral
organisations, including OAS and the Community of Latin American States (CELAC),
fosters regional integration and provides multiple avenues for dispute
management and resolution.

The risk of an interstate conflict is further minimised by the country's careful
management of its international relations, which have seen it remain aloof from
the US-led 'War on Terror' and subsequent controversial military interventions
in Afghanistan and Iraq. This has led to a balanced foreign policy which does
not antagonise developing nations, nor alienate the US, further reducing the
risk of an external attack by an aggrieved state. Although Mexico opted to leave
the Rio Treaty in 2004, as it saw the agreement as largely defunct and did not
wish to support the US in the Iraq War, this was done diplomatically and has not
had a lasting impact on relations with Washington.

Military Capability

The primary focus of Mexico's military at present is on internal security, due
to the campaign against the country's large and powerful drug cartels which has
been underway since 2006. Despite the considerable funding and training
assistance from the US, as well as the availability of the latest weaponry, the
armed forces have largely failed to eradicate or reduce the influence of TCOs.
The tactic of targeting 'kingpins' or leaders of these groups has, instead, led
to an uptick in violence as cartels have splintered and now engage more openly
in battles with one another and the security services. The capacity of the armed
forces has also been undermined by rampant corruption and abuse. Nevertheless,
the military is capable of providing the limited national defence role required,
and Mexico can rely on the implicit guarantee of US military assistance in the
event of an external attack by a foreign power.

Mexico has around 266,550 active military personnel as of 2015, divided between
204,950 in the army, 53,600 in the navy and 8,000 in the air force. This makes
it the third largest standing military out of 42 Latin American states, behind
only Brazil and Colombia, indicating that Mexico has the manpower available to
deter a potential aggressor and defend the country against an external attack.
Despite a relatively low defence expenditure, estimated at just 0.6% of GDP in
2015, Mexico's armed forces are well trained and equipped, having benefitted
from increased US military assistance in recent years, as well as purchasing
over USD1bn in weapons and equipment from the US since 2013, suggesting that it
would have the qualitative edge over an aggressor state.

The country's defence capabilities are also boosted by the implicit support of
the US in the event of an external attack. Given Mexico's strategic location on
the US' southern border, Washington takes a close interest in the country's
internal and external security, and the United States Northern Command
(USNORTHCOM), which aims to protect the territory and national interest of the
US in its bordering countries, includes Mexico in its area of operations.
Consequently, despite withdrawing from the Rio Treaty for collective defence in
2004 after the declaration of the 'War on Terror' Mexico's relationship with the
US deters an external attack by another state and ensures US military assistance
if such an event did occur.
 Global Defence Agreements

 Source: d-maps, BMI . Notes: US is a member of the Rio Treaty and NATO. Kuwait
and Bahrain are also Major Non-Nato Allies of the US.

There are serious concerns over Mexico's military's ability to tackle internal
security threats, however. Since the launch of the first military operations
against drug cartels in 2006, the armed forces have boasted some successes,
particularly since 2012 when many of the 'kingpins' or heads of criminal
syndicates have been captured or killed, which was a key objective of the
campaign. However, this has not resulted in a corresponding decrease in the
levels of violence in Mexico, and in fact the militarisation of the conflict
between the government and drug cartels has resulted in violent activity
becoming more open and indiscriminate. Violence within criminal gangs has
increased as various figures compete for leadership while conflicts between
rival gangs have also intensified, as some have splintered and others have
seized the opportunity left by the leadership vacuum to attempt to expand their
territorial presence and assert their influence. This heightened level of
violence has increased the risk that innocent civilians will become unintended
victims of gang attacks.

The involvement of the military in the crackdown against the drug cartels has
also brutalised the conflict in other ways, as military methods have proved
unsuitable for civilian policing. There have been multiple reported cases of
human rights violations by the armed forces, including extrajudicial killings,
torture, and use of excessive force against civilians. Since 2006, the Mexican
National Human Rights Commission has received over 9,000 complaints of abuse
perpetrated by the armed forces. The situation is often complicated by the
presence of civilian self-defence and vigilante groups, which have arisen and
armed themselves in response to security deficiencies in their local area. The
difficulty of distinguishing between these non-criminal groups and drug cartels
has led to incidents in which the military have been accused of attacking
civilians, particularly in the unstable state of Michoacan, where the army has
faced allegations of killing a minor and injuring five others when breaking up a
roadblock.

In addition to reports of abuse, the military is widely believed to be highly
susceptible to corruption, with certain elements of the armed forces having
close ties with the criminal underworld. This often leads to further cases of
brutality against innocent civilians, such as the disappearance and probable
murder of 43 students in Iguala in September 2014, an incident in which security
forces, as well as local politicians, were heavily implicated. The government is
attempting to improve pay and conditions for military personnel in order to
reduce the levels of corruption and desertion, but these nonetheless remain
serious issues for the armed forces. Although the military was brought into the
cartel conflict in order to replace corrupt and ineffective local police forces,
it has itself forged links with criminal gangs. This severely hinders its
ability to dismantle drug cartels, as they are often forewarned about operations
and are able to evade the armed forces. These concerns surrounding the
transparency, efficacy and ethical behaviour of the armed forces have therefore
increased the risk that workers and businesses will be exposed to violent crime
propagated by drug cartels, undermining Mexico's appeal as an investment
destination.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Trend Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            September 7, 2015 Monday

Ban condemns terrorist attack on Yemeni mosque that leaves more than 30 dead

LENGTH: 146 words


United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has today strongly condemned the
suicide attack against a mosque in the northern Jarraf district of Sana'a in
Yemen.



"Such attacks against places of worship are not justifiable under any
circumstances," said a statement issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson in New York.

The attack, which took place on 2 September during evening prayers, left more
than 30 people dead and almost 100 injured.

"The Secretary-General expresses his deepest condolences and sympathies to the
families of the victims and expects that the perpetrators of these reprehensible
acts will be swiftly brought to justice," said the statement.

Yemen's hostilities, which began in March 2014, have only exacerbated its
existent humanitarian crisis; 80 percent of the country's population is
currently in need of critical aid.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      September 7, 2015 Monday 6:13 PM GMT

RAF airstrike killed two British Isis fighters in Syria, David Cameron reveals;

PM also reveals police have foiled six terrorist attacks against Britain in the
last 12 months

BYLINE: Matt Dathan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 581 words


Two British citizens fighting for Isis in Syria were killed by RAF airstrikes
last month, David Cameron has revealed.

The Government has not received Parliamentary backing for intervention in Syria
but the Prime Minister told MPs that the decision to act was "entirely lawful".
"We took this action because there was no alternative," he said. "We were
exercising Britain's inherent right in self defence."

He also disclosed that the police and security services have foiled at least six
terrorist attacks against Britain over the last 12 months as he delivered a
statement to the House of Commons on Britain's response to the Syrian refugee
crisis and efforts to tackle the growing threat of Isis.

The risk to Britain from Islamist extremist violence is "more acute today than
ever before," Mr Cameron said, as he defended the decision to approve an RAF
drone strikes in Raqqa, that killed a total of three Isis fighters, two of whom
were British, on August 21.

The two British nationals were named as Junaid Hussain and Reyaad Khan. They
were based in Syria and were "actively recruiting Isil sympathisers," Mr Cameron
said, adding there was "clear evidence" that they were planning to carry out
"barbaric attacks" against the West, including direct terrorist plots on high
profile commemorations in Britain this summer.

Mr Cameron said he had acted without the backing of Parliament because of the
severe threat the three men posed to Britain's national interest.

"We took this action because there was no alternative," he told MPs. In this
area, there is no government we can work with.

"We have no military on the ground to detain those preparing plots and there was
nothing to suggest that Reyaad Khan would ever leave Syria or desist from his
desire to murder us at home.

"So we had no way of preventing his planned attacks on our country without
taking direct action."

Mr Cameron added: "The Attorney General was consulted and was clear there would
be a clear legal basis for action in international law. We were exercising the
UK's inherent right to self-defence.

"There was clear evidence of the individuals in question planning and directing
armed attacks against the UK. These were part of a series of actual and foiled
attempts to attack the UK and our allies."

However the decision to act without the backing of Parliament and the
Government's legal justification that it was acting in self defence was
criticised by the former Attorney General Dominic Grieve, who described it as a
"very draconian thing to do". "I strongly suspect it will lead to a legal
challenge," he told BBC Radio 4.

He said he expected a legal challenge to be made to the "potential violation of
somebody's right to life".

The SNP also attacked the decision, with the party's defence spokesperson
Brendan O'Hara claiming that the involvement of British personnel in airstrikes
without the the approval of Parliament "flouts the democratic decision of the
House of Commons".

Revealing the extent of the threat posed to Britain from the terrorist group, Mr
Cameron said: "I can tell the House that our police and security services have
stopped at least six different attempts to attack the UK in the last 12 months
alone.

"The threat picture facing Britain in terms of Islamist extremist violence is
more acute today than ever before."

Downing Street said Mr Cameron was on a regional visit in the UK to talk about
the Government's apprenticeships programme on the day of the RAF airstrike in
Raqqa.

Fall of Ramadi

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      September 7, 2015 Monday 5:34 PM GMT

Islamic State jihadi Reyaad Khan was killed by RAF strike while plotting
'specific and barbaric' attacks against Britain;
The Prime Minister said the 21-year-old was plotting murderous terror attacks on
'high-profile public commemorations' in Britain this summer

BYLINE: By Ciaran Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1017 words


A 21-year-old jihadi fighter who left his Cardiff home to join so-called Islamic
State militants in Syria was killed by the RAF in a drone strike, David Cameron
has confirmed.

The Prime Minister told MPs in the House of Commons Reyaad Khan had been
plotting "specific and barbaric" attacks against Britain.

The Conservative leader said the Attorney General was consulted and the UK was
acting in self-defence, adding that an air strike was the only practical method
to target Khan.

The Defence Secretary authorised the airstrike after a meeting with intelligence
chiefs, the PM said.

"This was a very sensitive operation to prevent a very real threat to our
country.

"This strike was not part of coalition military action against Isil in Syria...
It was to deal with a real, specific threat to our country at home."

Mr Cameron said the air strike was not part of coalition military action but a
response to a distinct terrorist threat.

Khan was one of three Islamic State fighters killed in the strike, the Prime
Minister said.

The Prime Minister said the strike was "entirely lawful" as he gave a stark
warning that threat to Britain from Islamist extremist violence is "more acute
today than ever before".

Read more: 'Let Jihadis go to Syria... just never let them back', says war
veteran Simon Weston

Police and security services have also stopped at least six terrorist attacks
against Britain in the last 12 months, the Prime Minister told MPs.

Mr Cameron said the strike in Raqqa was the "only feasible means" of dealing
with the terrorists and that it had been "necessary and proportionate".

The PM stressed that it was not part of coalition military action against
Islamic State and the Attorney General had been consulted and agreed there was a
"clear legal basis" for it.

Read more: How police caught the Cardiff extremist who wanted to join IS in
Syria

Addressing the Commons on Monday afternoon to confirm Khan was one of two
Britons killed, the Prime Minister said: "In recent weeks it has been reported
that two Isil fighters of British nationality who had been plotting attacks
against the UK and other countries have been killed in airstrikes.

"Both Junaid Hussain and Reyaad Khan were British nationals based in Syria who
were involved in actively recruiting Isil sympathisers and seeking to
orchestrate specific and barbaric attacks against the West including directing a
number of planned terrorist attacks right here in Britain, such as plots to
attack high-profile public commemorations, including those taking place this
summer.

"We should be under no illusion. Their intention was the murder of British
citizens.

"So on this occasion we ourselves took action.

"Today I can inform the House that in an act of self-defence and after
meticulous planning Reyaad Khan was killed in a precision airstrike carried out
on 21st August by an RAF remotely-piloted aircraft while he was travelling in a
vehicle in the area of Raqqa in Syria.

Read more: More than 40 children in Wales are at risk of being radicalised by
extremist groups like Islamic State

"In addition to Reyaad Khan, who was the target of the strike, two Isil
associates were also killed, one of whom - Ruhul Amin - has been identified as a
UK national. They were Isis fighters and I can confirm there were no civilian
casualties."

He described the airstrike as a "sensitive operation to prevent a very real
threat to our country".

The Prime Minister added: "We took this action because there was no alternative.
In this area there is no government we can work with.

"We have no military on the ground to detain those preparing plots. And there
was nothing to suggest that Reyaad Khan would ever leave Syria or desist from
his desire to murder us at home.

"So we had no way of preventing his planned attacks on our country without
taking direct action.

"The US administration has also confirmed that Junaid Hussain was killed in an
American airstrike on 24th August in Raqqa. With these issues of national
security and with current prosecutions ongoing the House will appreciate that
there are limits on the details I can provide."

Mr Cameron confirmed the strike was the first occasion in modern times a British
attack has been launched in a foreign country outside of a war.

He said the circumstances behind the decision to attack and kill Junaid Hussain
and Reyaad Khan with a drone strike last month were "relatively unique" - but
added he would do the same again.

He told MPs: "My first duty as Prime Minister is to keep the British people
safe.

"That is what I will always do.

Read more: Welsh soldier 'wants to go to Syria to fight Islamic State'

"There was a terrorist directing murder on our streets and no other means to
stop them.

"This Government does not for one moment take these decisions lightly.

"But I am not prepared to stand here in the aftermath of a terrorist attack on
our streets and have to explain to the House why I did not take the chance to
prevent it when I could have done.

"That is why I believe our approach is right and I commend this statement to the
House."

Read more: World's Most Wanted: These are the people at the top of government
and law enforcement hit-lists

Khan's death was reported last week after his family told worshippers at their
mosque that he has been killed.

Speaking last Wednesday, Dr Saleem Kidwai of the Muslim Council of Wales said
Khan's family had confirmed his death at the Jalalia mosque the previous Friday.

Khan, who adopted the name Abu Dujana, travelled to Syria in November 2013 and
appeared alongside Nasser Muthana, also from Cardiff, in an Isis propaganda
video called There Is No Life Without Jihad.

Muthana's brother Aseel also later flew to Syria to join the terrorist group.

Last year he sparked fears of a wave of suicide attacks with boasts that he was
planning "fireworks" and preparing for "martyrdom".

At the end of July there were reports Khan had been killed in a drone strike,
although UK police and the Foreign Office were unable to confirm the reports.

Nasser Muthana and Reyaad Khan in IS jihadi recruitment video:

Welsh family's heartbreak as son appears in jihadi recruitment video

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Revel website says Russia may be planning terror attacks in Europe

LENGTH: 628 words


Excerpt from report by North Caucasus rebel internet news agency Kavkaz-Tsentr

7 September: Russian propaganda is frightening Europe by "thousands of
militants" who have infiltrated Europe as refugees.

Russia media have reported a "news report" on Monday 7 September that said that
"4,000 Islamic State militants" had allegedly arrived in Europe as Syrian
refugees.

Western commentators have pointed out that not only pro-Kremlin media but also
so-called liberal media outlets published the news. And the Russian media are
quoting "Western media" which allegedly reported the news.

But hours later it turned out that as usual the Russian media were lying.

The "Western media" turned out to be just one publication, the so-called tabloid
Sunday Express which represents the interests of the far-right party UKIP [UK
Independence Party]. UKIP is against refugees being accepted. Moreover, the
tabloid published the "news" copying a buzzfeed.com article dated January 2015
which quoted an anonymous source.

[Russian news agency] RIA Novosti quoted this tabloid while reporting the "news"
about "militants' incursion into Europe as refugees".

It is well-known that since the Soviet times, the Russian special services have
been using the Western press to publish reports which serve Moscow's interests.
Then, Russian media publish these made-to-order reports with reference to
"Western sources".

[Passage omitted: quotes from foreign and Russian media reports]

A question arises: why does Russian propaganda need to frighten Europe with "IS
militants' invasion"?

Kavkaz-Tsentr's analysts are sure that this misinformation cannot be viewed only
as part of [Russia's] information war against the West. In fact, the false
report about "refugees-cum-rebels" indicates indirectly that Russia is probably
masterminding a major terrorist attack in Europe under the guise of IS.

The story of the Tsarnayev brothers shows that Russia is capable of organizing
attacks that will be blamed on others. And it does not matter that it was clumsy
work and Russians left their fingerprints (Tamerlan Tsarnayev, who FBI wanted
and even sent an all-points bulletin about him to Washington, visited Chechnya
and Dagestan and then freely travelled to Boston from Moscow). It is important
that the US government was frightened to point to the main mastermind behind the
[Boston] bombing, because after levelling accusations regarding the attack the
USA would have to declare war on Russia.

The aim of terrorist attacks which Russia masterminds is to destabilize Europe,
impose Russia's will on it and finally establish its control over Europe.

Moscow's plans do not look fantastic, taking into account that the West is
spineless as it first accepted the massacre in Chechnya (250,000 civilians,
including 42,000 Chechen kids were killed) and in the Caucasus Emirate, then
accepted the seizure of Georgia and what is most important it accepted the
barefaced execution of the elite of Poland, a NATO member [reference to the 2010
air crash in Russia in which Polish President Lech Kaczynski and several top
public and military figures of Poland were killed].

In fact, Europe and the USA underestimate the Russian threat. Despite economic
sanctions which look effective and despite a display of power near Russia's
borders, the West's deeds look like a reaction to actions of a street ruffian
while in fact they are faced with a sadist and serial killer who, in addition,
dreams of his state's greatness and global dominance.

It also maybe quite the opposite - the fat and sodomite West realizes very well
the threat that Russia poses, but it is simply frightened to respond with
resolute actions as it does not want to sacrifice its comfortable life.

Source: Kavkaz-Tsentr news agency website in Russian 7 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

US embassy in S.Africa issues terror attack warning

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 252 words


JOHANNESBURG - The US embassy in South Africa said on Tuesday that it has
received information that extremists may be targeting US interests in the
country.

The interests to be targeted possibly include US government facilities and other
facilities identifiable with US business interests, the embassy said in a
statement.

"There is no additional information as to timing or potential targeting," the
statement said.

"Review your personal security plans; remain aware and vigilant of your
surroundings, including local events, monitor local news stations for updates
and follow instructions from local authorities," the embassy advised.

"Be vigilant and take appropriate steps to enhance your personal security," it
added.

Fears for terror attacks on Western targets in South Africa have been existed
for some time. There have been reports that "White Widow" Samantha Lewthwaite
was seen spying on Western embassies in South Africa before she allegedly
masterminded the West Gate shopping mall attack in Nairobi, Kenya.

The 31-year-old Briton is known to have been in South Africa between 2008 and
2011, travelling under the assumed name Natalie Faye Webb on a fraudulently
obtained South African passport.

In January and February 2013, she was allegedly caught on CCTV cameras watching
embassies in the Arcadia area of Pretoria, including the British High
Commission.

Arcadia is home to the Union Buildings and South African president's official
residence, in addition to US embassy and many other foreign embassies.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 2:54 PM GMT

'We need more drone strikes on IS': Daughter of beheaded Scots aid worker David
Haines backs action against terror group;
BETHANY Haines said the attack which killed two British jihadists was "a step in
the right direction" but called for more direct action against the terrorists
who killed her dad.

BYLINE: By Craig Robertson

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 261 words


THE DAUGHTER of beheaded Scottish aid worker David Haines has called for more of
the drone strikes which killed two British jihadists in Syria.

Bethany Haines today described the UK Government's attack as a "step in the
right direction" but wants tougher action on the Islamic State terror group
which killed her father.

David, 44, was murdered last September during his first visit to Syria after
footage emerged online showing his capture at the hands of the British IS
fighter nicknamed 'Jihadi John'.

Bethany said: "I think the drone attack is a step in the right direction - but I
think more direct action is needed.

"More strikes need to be carried out and not just on British jihadists, but on
Isis in general.

"I still think ground action is necessary and I hope that it will be considered
as a next step to wiping out IS and their supposed caliphate."

Bethany, 18, from Scone in Perthshire, was speaking during an interview with ITV
News being broadcast tonight.

It came after Prime Minister David Cameron revealed in Parliament yesterday that
drone strikes in Syria last month had killed Aberdeen-raised Abdul Raqib Amin
and Cardiff-born Reyaad Khan along with two other militants.

Both had fled the UK to fight alongside IS terrorists.

David, from Perth, had worked for humanitarian causes for 14 years before his
capture in March 2013 while in Syria.

Jihadi John was unmasked as 26-year-old Mohammed Emwazi who had fled his home in
London in 2012 to join IS.

Bethany previously said her family would only "feel closure and relief once
there's a bullet between his eyes".

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 9:52 AM GMT

Prime Minister David Cameron reveals Scots terrorist 'Jihadi Don' has been
killed in a drone strike in Syria;
MPs are told how Abdul Raqib Amin from Aberdeen was killed along with two other
Islamic State fighters as part of an RAF mission to foil terror attacks in the
UK.

BYLINE: By Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 853 words


SCOTS jihadist Abdul Raqib Amin has been killed in a drone strike in Syria, the
Prime Minister confirmed today.

The Aberdeen-based student shocked family and friends when he turned up in a
chilling recruitment video for the bloodthirsty terror group IS in Iraq.

Many feared the sports-mad Dons fan had been brain-washed and couldn't
understand why he'd deserted his family and friends.

PM David Cameron told the Commons today that Amin - who became known as 'Jihadi
Don', had died along with two others in Syria on August 21.

Video: Three IS fighters killed in RAF drone strike in Syria, including British
national Reyaad Khan - PM

Amin was born in Bangladesh but grew up and worshipped in a mosque near Aberdeen
University before moving to Leicester with his family.

Last summer he appeared in an Isis recruitment video after learning about the
terrorist group on Twitter and travelling to Syria.

Cameron told MPs: "In recent weeks it has been reported that two Isil fighters
of British nationality who had been plotting attacks against the UK and other
countries have been killed in air strikes.

"Both Junaid Hussain and Reyaad Khan were British nationals based in Syria who
were involved in actively recruiting Isil sympathisers and seeking to
orchestrate specific and barbaric attacks against the West, including a number
of planned terrorist attacks here in Britain."

Cameron said the attacks included plots to target "high-profile public
commemorations" in the UK.

He continued: "We should be under no illusion. Their intention was the murder of
British citizens. So on this occasion we ourselves took action.

"I can inform the House that in an act of self-defence and after meticulous
planning Reyaad Khan was killed in a precision air strike carried out on August
21 by an RAF remotely piloted aircraft while he was travelling in a vehicle in
the area of Raqqah in Syria.

"In addition to Reyaad Khan, who was the target of the strike, two IS associates
were also killed, one of whom, Ruhul Amin (also known as Abdul Raqib Amin), has
been identified as a UK national.

"They were IS fighters and I can confirm there were no civilian casualties."

In July last year Amin popped up in an Islamic State propoganda video claiming
"thousands" of Brits were fighting in Syria.

He said: "I left the UK to fight for the sake of Allah - to give everything I
have for the sake of Allah to establish the seat of Allah in the land.

"I left with the intention of not going back. I'm going to stay and fight until
the Caliphate is established, or I die."

Last night a friend of Amin's family, Maqbool Choudry, told the Record: "It's a
very sad end. As soon as the news filtered through everybody, people who knew
him and his family, will be devastated.

"Some people, obviously, will be glad he's out of the way because he has given
this community and the Muslims a bad name."

Mr Choudry, who runs a takeaway in Aberdeen, added: "Everybody will be thinking
about his parents. He grew up in this area but some people are still really
angry, thinking this man has given everybody a bad name.

"But in another way it gave everybody else in the Muslim community a wake-up
call to keep a good eye on their youngsters.

"That's the only good thing that has come out of it.

"Most of the youngsters coming through now are really good lads and are doing
well academically.

"Raqib came from a good home but this is a sad end."

Abdul Raqib Amin had just turned 26 when he sucked into the militant group and
appeared in the video using the fighter name Abul Bara al Hindi.

A former pupil at Aberdeen's St Machar Academy he initially travelled to Syria
and was filmed alongside two other British students - Reyaad Khan and Nasser
Muthana, both 20 and from Cardiff.

In the video, titled There Is No Life Without Jihad, Amin asked would-be
fighters: "Are you willing to sacrifice the fat job you've got, the big car, the
family you have?

"Are you willing to sacrifice this, for the sake of Allah? If you do Allah will
give you back 700 times more."

Amin also appeared on ITV's Good Morning Britain to defend his militant views.

He admitted: "In the Aberdeen mosque there is not one person with the same
mentality as me.

"They don't agree with jihad and disagree with all these extremists."

But he claimed it was one of the happiest moments of his life when he left the
UK to join the so-called holy war.

He warned: "We are not scared of anyone and we are going to expand. People in
the UK are scared we are going to attack them - we are not going to attack
them... yet."

"I left the UK to give everything I have for the the sake of Allah. One of the
happiest moments in my life was when the plane took off from Gatwick Airport.

"As a Muslim you cannot live in the country of Kuffars (disbelievers)."

At the time Iman Ibrahim Alwawi, from the Aberdeen Mosque and Islamic centre,
where the young fanatic once worshipped, said: "He used to come here but left
with his family a long time ago."

He added: "Our message is clear - we do not promote any extreme views or ideas
inside the mosque. The mosque is a place of peace and harmony and respect for
everyone."

Quick Quiz: News 4/09/15

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

RAF kills British jihadists in Syria to save the Queen;
Prime Minister orders drone attack to assassinate terrorist fighting for Isil
Cameron insists strike did not need MPs' approval as it was in self-defence He
says Britain is to accept 20,000 Syrian refugees over the next five years Air
strike in Syria approved 'months ago' ... then defence secretary gave go-ahead

BYLINE: Peter Dominiczak, Ben Farmer; Steven Swinford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 923 words


A BRITISH jihadist has been killed in Syria by UK forces after he directed a
plot to kill the Queen, it emerged last night.

In a move David Cameron said was "a new departure" for Britain, Reyaad Khan was
assassinated last month by an RAF drone strike after security services uncovered
his plan to stage a terrorist attack in the UK.

The Prime Minister said it was the first time the UK had directed a targeted
attack against one of its own citizens when Britain was not at war.

It also marks the first independent British military action in Syria, and Mr
Cameron made clear that UK forces were now prepared to carry out more strikes in
Syria, Iraq and Libya against specific targets. Downing Street denied the
existence of a "kill list" of terrorists. However, it has been made clear by
Whitehall sources that British-born Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)
fighters including "Jihadi John", the terrorist responsible for executing
Westerners in Syria, are targets for UK forces.

The Prime Minister authorised the strike without the approval of Parliament but
said a vote was not required because it was an act of "self-defence" for which
there was a "clear legal basis".

The announcement shifted the debate on the migrant crisis. Mr Cameron yesterday
announced that 20,000 Syrian refugees would be relocated in Britain by 2020. But
the Prime Minister has said that he believes action needs to be taken in Syria
to prevent a further escalation of the crisis.

Announcing the strikes, Mr Cameron said: "My first duty as Prime Minister is to
keep the British people safe. That is what I will always do. There was a
ter-rorist directing murder on our streets and no other means to stop them. This
Government does not for one moment take these decisions lightly.

"But I am not prepared to stand here in the aftermath of a terrorist attack on
our streets and have to explain why I did not take the chance to prevent it when
I could have done."

Two other Isil fighters were killed in the precision attack, in the Syrian city
of Raqqa, on Aug 21. One of them, Ruhul Amin, 26, was also British, Mr Cameron
said. The Prime Minister said a third Briton, Junaid Hussain, 21, was killed by
a separate US air strike.

Khan, 21, was targeted after it emerged he was leading a plot to attack the VJ
Day commemoration services in London last month, government sources said. The
Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Prime Minister were at the service in
central London. In the event, the strike took place six days later; it was
believed that Khan would never "desist from his desire to murder us at home", Mr
Cameron said.

The strike was condemned by Labour MPs, human rights organisations and a number
of senior Tories.

The disclosure comes days before Labour is expected to elect Mr Corbyn as
leader. He has repeatedly said he would not back military intervention in Syria.
Tory sources said that it highlighted Labour's weakness on national security. It
came as:

Dominic Grieve, the former attorney general, warned that the British air strike
could face a legal challenge because of Mr Cameron's failure to consult
Parliament

Angela Merkel demanded that the rest of Europe "pulls its weight" as Germany
continued to accept tens of thousands of migrants

Greece called for emergency assistance from the European Union as it warned that
20,000 migrants are now stranded on the island of Lesbos

Francois Hollande, the French president, told Mr Cameron not to "shirk" his
responsibilities to migrants if he wants to successfully renegotiate the UK's
relationship with Brussels

Viktor Orban, the Hungarian prime minister, called on European leaders to stop
accepting migrants and said that quotas were futile

Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leadership contender, said bombing Syria would "kill
many people" and might not defeat Isil, as he called for an international peace
summit over the country's future.

The announcement of the strike was made on the first day of the new
parliamentary session and comes amid speculation that Mr Cameron is preparing
the ground for a military intervention in Syria.

The drone strike was approved by the Prime Minister "months ago" at a meeting of
the National Security Council (NSC), sources said. The request to authorise the
attack came last month while Mr Cameron was on a visit in Norfolk. Michael
Fallon, the Defence Secretary, gave the go-ahead at a meeting of the NSC on the
Prime Minister's behalf, Downing Street said.

Defence sources said that British spy planes were used to locate Khan before the
fatal drone attack was authorised.

A Rivet Joint plane packed with sensitive electronic eavesdropping intelligence
equipment has been flying over Syria from Cyprus since October.

GCHQ's main effort this summer has been to sift and analyse traffic from Raqqa,
the headquarters of Isil, and Khan's position is understood to have been given
away after his communications were intercepted.

Mr Corbyn was last night facing renewed questions over his judgment after it
emerged that he attended a conference after the Iraq war that called on Iraqis
to engage in "military struggle" against British and American troops.

An investigation by BBC's Panorama programme found that he attended the 2003
conference in Cairo on behalf of the Stop the War Coalition.

A communiqué issued at the conclusion of the conference called for support for
"resistance against the occupation forces with all legitimate means, including
military struggle".

A spokesman for Mr Corbyn said: "Jeremy was opposed to the Iraq war and to the
loss of 179 British soldiers."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reyaad Khan, left, and Ruhul Amin who were killed in a drone strike on
the Syrian city of Raqqa last month

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror attacks that great vigilence has prevented

LENGTH: 550 words


WE ARE living through dangerous times as David Cameron confirmed yesterday when
he told the House of Commons that six terrorist attacks against Britain have
been foiled in the last 12 months.

DANIEL DEME/ WENN

Vigilence is the only thing keeping us safe from terror attacks

It would be blindly optimistic to expect this situation to continue forever. The
terrorists only have to get lucky once, the security services have to get
everything right every time. The Director General of MI5 has in the past stated
that it is only a matter of time before we are hit.

That we have stayed safe in the face of a growing threat is testament to the
hard work and expertise of the security services. The RAF drone attacks in Syria
that killed two British member of ISIS send a powerful message to our enemies.
Even on the other side of the world they cannot run and they cannot hide.

This country does not tolerate terrorism and our Government is capable of acting
decisively to eliminate those who wish us harm. But at the same time Europe has
capitulated in the face of the migrant crisis. By throwing their arms open and
allowing thousands of people into the continent the governments of Europe have
created an easy opportunity for jihadists to make it onto our doorstep.

Meanwhile ISIS's slick propaganda videos and the vile ravings of hate preachers
continue to exert an influence on the minds of impressionable Britons. As the
Government considers greater military intervention in Syria it cannot afford to
forget that terrorism needs to be tackled much closer to home too.

Related articles  Cameron: British jihadists killed by RAF drone attack in Syria
'Just wait...' Islamic State reveals it has smuggled THOUSANDS of...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------Referendum must be fair

THIS newspaper has said all along that the EU referendum must be held freely and
fairly. The question must be clear and unbiased. Ministers must be given freedom
to vote and campaign however they wish, just as in 1975. The machinery and the
resources of the state must not be deployed on either side.

For the result of the vote to be respected by all parties it must be a fair
fight. The suggestion that it has been rigged or one side has been favoured will
only lead to bitter recriminations. Such an outcome would not put the debate to
rest.

If the Prime Minister really trusts the British people to decide he must ensure
the process is fair.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------Spelling rules OK

According to a new poll "i before e except after c" is the thing we are most
likely to remember from our school days. If you deign to teach current pupils
this saying remember that it isn't always sufficient. Seizing upon it at every
opportunity in an attempt to feign knowledge would be a heinous error.

Related articles David Cameron blasts claims he was trying to SCARE Britons into
EU yes vote Nigel Farage has a pop at Queen over her 'pro-EU' speech urging
European unity Labour frontbenchers promise 'unashamedly pro-EU' campaign -
risking party split Passing the first hurdle: History made as MPs vote in favour
of EU referendum by 544 to 53

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 10:21 PM GMT

New York faces 'greater likelihood' of lone-wolf terrorist attacks - NYPD chief;

Commissioner Bill Bratton tells a House hearing at the 9/11 Museum on Tuesday
that the threat against the city is the greatest it has been in years

BYLINE: Ellen Brait in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


New York faces "a greater likelihood of attack than we have seen in years",
police commissioner Bill Bratton said at a hearing of the House committee on
homeland security at the 9/11 Museum on Tuesday.

At the hearing, Beyond Bin Laden's Caves and Couriers to a New Generation of
Terrorists: Confronting the Challenges in a Post 9/11 World, Bratton said that
"lone-wolf" terrorist attacks were one of the greatest threats that New York
City faced. Groups like Islamic State have "shunned al-Qaida's model, which
focuses on the next grand attack", and instead encourage "unaffiliated
independent operators to do whatever damage they can with whatever is at hand",
he said.

"In many respects, we currently face a greater likelihood of attack than we have
seen in years," the NYPD police commissioner said. "With regard to crime, we
just experienced the safest summer in 25 years, with murders and shootings at
modern lows. But with regard to the current terrorism threat environment, we now
face multiple hazards: 'known wolves and lone wolves.'"

Representative Michael T McCaul, who opened the ceremony, said: "We have made
progress since 9/11... But our enemies have come a long way, too." He cited last
year as the "deadliest year on record for global terrorism" and credited
terrorists' ability to "inspire new recruits online, tweet marching orders, and
wait for fanatics to act".

"We are in unchartered territory," he said. "Even at its height, al-Qaida never
reached this kind of operational tempo."

The committee also heard speeches from former mayor Rudolph Giuliani, FDNY
commissioner Daniel Nigro, president of the September 11th Families' Association
Lee Ielpi, and president of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement
Executives Gregory A Thomas.

They discussed lessons learned from the 9/11 terrorist attack, highlighting
protocol in place so that first responders, intelligence professionals and
border authorities were better equipped. But both Bratton and McCaul spoke about
the dangers the US still faced.

"Terrorists still have their sights set on the west," McCaul said. "In fact, in
the past 18 months Isis [Islamic State] alone has inspired or directed nearly 60
plots or attacks against western countries, including America. Authorities have
also arrested, on average, almost one American a week on terrorism charges."

"Fortunately, its direct impact has not yet been felt here," Bratton said of
Islamic State. "But the important words there are 'direct impact' and 'yet'."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 11:49 AM GMT

Was it lawful for UK forces to kill British Isis fighters in Syria?;
On the facts as we know them, this unprecedented attack on British would-be
terrorists appears to be within the law

BYLINE: Joshua Rozenberg

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 798 words


Can it ever be lawful for British forces to kill would-be terrorists, as David
Cameron today confirmed has happened in the case of two Britons fighting with
Islamic State in Syria? Surely the rule of law demands that suspects be
arrested, tried and imprisoned if found guilty by a court?

Related: UK forces kill British Isis fighters in targeted drone strike on Syrian
city

English law allows a person to use such force as appears reasonable in
self-defence or for the defence of others. And pre-emptive force may be used to
ward off an imminent attack. So it would be lawful for the police or armed
forces to shoot terrorists in London if that was the only way of stopping them
setting off a bomb.

But what if the terrorists are abroad? Reyaad Khan was in the Raqqah area of
Syria when he was killed in an RAF drone strike on 21 August. As the prime
minister told MPs, he and Junaid Hussain - who was killed in an American air
strike three days later - "were British nationals based in Syria who were
involved in actively recruiting Isil [Isis] sympathisers and seeking to
orchestrate specific and barbaric attacks against the west, including directing
a number of planned terrorist attacks right here in Britain".

There was, said Cameron, no other way of preventing Khan's planned attacks.

The attorney general, Jeremy Wright, will have advised Cameron that article 51
of the United Nations charter preserves the "inherent right of individual ...
self-defence if an armed attack occurs against" a member state. Measures taken
under this provision must be reported to the security council "immediately" - a
requirement that seems to have been interpreted by the government as meaning
"after two weeks".

Was the UK under an armed attack? Cameron said "there was clear evidence of the
individuals in question planning and directing armed attacks against the UK". In
English law, you don't have to wait for the aggressor to shoot first - and the
same principle is accepted in international law. The government does not seem to
be relying on the more questionable doctrine of anticipatory self-defence or
pre-emptive strikes.

All states agree that self-defence must be necessary and proportionate. These
requirements can be traced back to the Caroline incident in 1837, which involved
a pre-emptive raid by British forces in Canada on a steamboat manned by Canadian
rebels who were planning an attack from the US. Cameron was at pains to point
out that the attack on Kahn and his Isis associates was timed to avoid any
civilian casualties.

Even so, two other people who were travelling in the same vehicle as Khan were
killed at the same time. One was Rahul Amin, who was a UK national. The other
has not been named. Cameron said that both were Isis fighters though - unlike
Hussain - they were not accused of planning specific attacks.

It is obviously harder to justify the attacks on the two men travelling with
Khan than it is to justify killing Khan himself. On the other hand, if they were
Isis fighters then they should have known that Khan was a likely target and that
they would be at risk by travelling with him. If Khan had been hiding in a
village or even a large compound, it would have been disproportionate to bomb
the entire area. But attacking a vehicle containing Isis fighters would be seen
by many as a proportionate response to the threat Khan posed.

Critics say that Cameron should have sought parliamentary approval before
launching air strikes. Clearly, that would have jeopardised the operation, even
if parliament had been sitting in August. Though there may now be a convention
that parliament is consulted ahead of military action, it is not a legal
requirement - whether or not the potential targets are UK citizens.

On the facts as we know them, this unprecedented attack on British would-be
terrorists in Syria appears to be within the law. The attorney general, we are
told, "was clear there would be a clear legal basis for action in international
law". We are unlikely to see the full text of his advice because some of the
details are likely to be highly classified. But we are entitled to expect the
government to publish a summary, not least because the convention that legal
advice on such matters is confidential seems no longer to be observed by
ministers themselves.

So the only remaining question is whether the drone strike on Khan and those
with him was morally justified. On this, I am with Cameron. As he said, his
first duty is to keep the British people safe. "There was a terrorist directing
murder on our streets and no other means to stop him," the prime minister said.

And I don't suppose that Khan himself would have disagreed. If he was waging war
on British troops and civilians, he can hardly complain the UK's armed forces
were one step ahead of him.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Judge chosen for inquest into deaths of British victims of terror attack - which
injured Darwen mum and daughter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 167 words


THEÂ inquests into the deaths of 30 Britons in June's Tunisia terror attack -
which also injured a Darwen mum and her daughter - will be heard by a crown
court judge.

Judge Nicholas Loraine-Smith, who sits at Southwark Crown Court in London, will
conduct the official investigations into deaths of the UK victims of the mass
killing in the Mediterranean resort town of Sousse, Chief Coroner Judge Peter
Thornton QC has announced.

The bloody attack by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui claimed a total of 38 lives, with
terror group Islamic State claiming responsibility.

Darwen teen Naomi Wearing, then 18, and her mum Carol Wearing, then 46, were
walking to have lunch in the beach resort when Rezgui launched his attack.

They were both peppered with shrapnel and had to be flown back to East
Lancashire on specially chartered flights.

Judge Loraine-Smith was nominated to take on the role by the Lord Chief Justice,
Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd after consultation with the Lord Chancellor, Justice
Secretary Michael Gove.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 4:40 PM GMT

Americans warned to 'enhance personal security' as terrorists are planning an
attack in South Africa on US government sites and businesses

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words



     ·    The embassy in South Africa has issued a warning over possible attacks
     ·    It said intelligence indicated U.S. interests in the country may be
          targeted
     ·    However, there was no specific target or timing identified in the
          warning
     ·    The embassy asked that U.S. nationals in South Africa remain vigilant


The United States embassy in South Africa has warned of a 'terrorist threat' to
U.S. interests in the country, and advised its citizens to be on heightened
alert against attack.

The security message issued by the embassy in Pretoria said there was no
information on the possible timing or target in South Africa, which has escaped
the militant Islamist attacks seen in several other African countries.

The warning comes amid increased concerns in the US and UK about the threat
returning ISIS jihadis pose to the West.

An embassy statement said: 'Extremists may be targeting U.S. interests in South
Africa, to possibly include U.S. Government facilities and other facilities
identifiable with U.S. business interests.'

While the warning stated there was no specific target or timing for any attack,
it asked those in the country to remain vigilant.

'Review your personal security plans; remain aware and vigilant of your
surroundings, including local events, monitor local news stations for updates
and follow instructions from local authorities.

'Be vigilant and take appropriate steps to enhance your personal security.'

Meanwhile, the British government has revealed it killed two of its own citizens
in drone strikes in recent weeks, it has also warned at least 350 British
jihadis are back in the UK after fighting and plotting terror attacks from
Syria.

Ministers today warned that there were more jihadis in Syria orchestrating
atrocities in the UK, Australia and the United States after it emerged Briton
Reyaad Khan was killed in the RAF drone strike.

A spokeswoman for the police in Gauteng, the province that is home to both the
U.S. embassy in Pretoria and its consulate in Johannesburg, said she was unaware
of the U.S. warning.

The embassy and consulates in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town closed for
several days in 2009 after what U.S. officials described as a 'specific' threat
to diplomatic missions in South Africa.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 10:11 AM GMT

This viral image of an ISIS fighter pretending to be a refugee is not all it
seems;
It was shared by thousands, sparking fears that the migrant crisis could lead to
a terror attack in the UK...

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


This is the image that went viral after appearing to show an ISIS militant
disguising himself as a refugee to gain passage to Europe.

The image was shared on Facebook by Peter Lee Goodchild, whose social media
image shows the European Union flag printed onto toilet paper.

He accompanied the image with the caption: "Remember this guy? Posing in ISIS
photos last year - now he's a 'refugee'.

"Are we suckers or what!"

And the picture caused a huge reaction when it was posted on September 3,
getting 7,000 'likes' and 73,000 shares.

Read more: Britain's secret kill list: Government signals 'shoot to kill' policy
for ISIS terror suspects in Syria

Derek Giles wrote: "Tell him to go back and die."

Another, John Mahoney, said: "Europe will be sorry. This is an invasion and time
will tell."

Chrissiehappy Hoy posted: "Welcome to our country. I'll leave my front door open
so you can slaughter my little family and rape me!"

But the image has now been exposed as a fake.

The man pictured is Laith Al Saleh, who became a Free Syrian Army commander
after the civil war broke out in Syria.

Previously, he had worked as a plasterer in his home city of Aleppo, but since
then the 30-year-old chose to take a stand against the Islamic terrorists
wreaking havoc in his homeland.

Read more: Refugees fleeing ISIS and Taliban reveal the meagre possessions they
salvaged during desperate escape from danger

He has now put down his gun however to help refugees desperately trying to flee
ISIS terror.

And since it emerged that the before-and-after image was a fabrication, Facebook
users have been hitting back at those who shared the image.

Matthew Ogden said: "It'd be a shocking story, if it were true. Fact is, he is
NOT a former ISIS member.

"But that won't let everyone on this thread leap all over this with glee, no
doubt sharing it further without doing a second of fact checking. Nice one on
the propaganda."

Pete Johansson said: "All your posts are blindly ignorant. He did everything
right until they were over run and defeated."

Heavily pregnant woman gives birth to baby MOMENTS after being rescued from
migrant ship

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MI5 FOIL PLOT TO KILL QUEEN;
Terror attacks thwarted as scots jihadist dies in british drone strike RAF drone
killed jihadi Britons

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 739 words


A BRITISH jihadist killed by the RAF in Syria had plotted to blow up the Queen,
David Cameron said.

Cardiff-born Reyaad Khan, 21, was blitzed in a drone strike last month.

He had been trying to recruit other British fanatics for "barbaric attacks" on
UK soil, the Prime Minister said.

Khan died alongside Scots jihadist Ruhul Amin in the strike, Mr Cameron
revealed.

One plot foiled by MI5 involved a massive bomb blast at a ceremony in London on
August 15 on the 70th anniversary of VJ Day. The Queen, Prince Charles and other
senior members of the Royal Family were present.

Another foiled attack was aimed at Armed Forces Day in London in June.

Six UK terror plots have been thwarted in 12 months, Mr Cameron said. Amin,
Khan and another Islamist fighter died when a precision guided missile fired by
an RAF remote-controlled drone blasted their vehicle near the Islamic State
stronghold of Raqqah in Syria on August 21.

It was the first time that a British drone aircraft has been used to kill enemy
targets in a territory where UK Armed Forces are not directly involved in combat
operations.

Another British-born jihadist involved in plotting terrorist outrages in the UK,
21-year-old Junaid Hussein, was killed in a US airstrike in Raqqah three days
later.

The Prime Minister said he sanctioned the RAF attack to counter threats of
massive terrorist outrages in the UK. "We took this action because there was no
alternative," Mr Cameron told a hushed House of Commons. "We were exercising the
UK's inherent right to self defence."

Bangladesh-born Amin moved to Aberdeen when he was 10 and attended Sunnybank
Primary School and St Machar Academy.

Khan and Hussain were seeking to recruit other British nationals to attack the
UK mainland.

Both were understood to be linked to the plot assassinate the Queen.

They planned to detonate a massive pressure cooker bomb, capable of causing
hundreds of casualties, at the commemoration in London on August 15 to mark the
70th anniversary of Japan's surrender in the Second World War.

Her Majesty bravely went ahead with the ceremony after being warned of the
threat.

MI5 agents thwarted the plot - one of six foiled in Britain in 12 months. Mr
Cameron authorised the Reaper drone strike after British agents identified a
"direct threat" from Khan. He discussed the threat with his National Security
Council before agreeing to use a remote control aircraft over Syrian territory.
Once the vehicle carrying Khan and other fighters was identified, Defence
Secretary Michael Fallon gave the order to attack.

Mr Cameron insisted the strike was within international law, even though
Parliament has not voted in favour of military action in Syria.

"My first duty as Prime Minister is to keep the British people safe," he said.
"There was a terrorist directing murder on our streets and (there was) no other
means to stop him.

"I am not prepared to stand here in the aftermath of a terrorist attack on our
streets and have to explain to the House why I did not take the chance to
prevent it."

He added: "Both Junaid Hussain and Reyaad Khan were British nationals based in
Syria who were involved in actively recruiting and seeking to orchestrate
barbaric attacks against the West including directing a number of planned
terrorist attacks right here in Britain. We should be under no illusion. Their
intention was the murder of British citizens. So on this occasion we ourselves
took action."No civilians were injured in the drone attack, the Prime Minister
told MPs. He added: "I am clear the action we took was entirely lawful.

"The Attorney General was consulted and was clear there would be a legal basis
for action in international law. There was clear evidence of the individuals
planning and directing attacks against the UK.

"In the circumstances in Syria, the air strike was the only feasible means of
disrupting the attacks. It was necessary and proportionate for the self-defence
of the UK."

Mr Cameron insisted the strike was not part of an allied attack against Islamic
State in Syria.

He said there was a "strong case" for Britain joining air strikes in Syria but
promised to hold a fresh vote in Parliament before going ahead.

Acting Labour leader Harriet Harman urged the Government to publish the legal
advice justifying the decision to launch the attack.

Khan was a high-profile member of Islamic State and has appeared in recruitment
videos attempting to lure young Muslims from Britain.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Target..the Queen at VJ Day anniversary ceremony in London on August
15Brit killed by RAF... Reyaad Khan, 21Killed by US... Brit Junaid HusseinKilled
with Khan... Scots-raised Amin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SCOTS JIHADI KILLED BY RAF;
ISIS fanatic from Aberdeen dies in drone attack on Syria Second Briton killed
was plotting Royal terror attack

BYLINE: James Slack; Graham Grant

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 683 words


A SCOTTISH jihadi who helped to spearhead a recruitment campaign for Islamic
State has been killed in an unprecedented RAF drone strike in Syria.

David Cameron confirmed that Abdul Rakib Amin died along with two associates in
the city of Raqqa.

The target of the attack was Reyaad Khan, a fellow British jihadi known to be
masterminding a new terror outrage at military commemorations attended by the
Queen. Khan, Amin and a third man were travelling in the same vehicle when it
was hit by an RAF missile.

In an extraordinary statement to MPs, the Prime Minister yesterday revealed how
UK forces had for the first time used military force in a country where Britain
is not involved in a war.

The revelation sent shockwaves through Westminster and triggered accusations of
'extra-judicial killing'.

But an unrepentant Prime Minister said he would not hesitate to carry out
similar operations in order to prevent slaughter on Britain's streets.

He said the killing had been an act of 'self-defence' and denied it was a Turn
to Page 2 Continued from Page One softening-up exercise to persuade Parliament
to vote for further military action against IS targets in Syria.

Whitehall officials said Khan had been trying to orchestrate attacks against a
series of high-profile targets in the UK. Some plots had been foiled while
others were ongoing.

Targets included the VE day commemorations which took place on May 8, the day
after the General Election, and VJ Day in August. An attack involving guns,
knives or home-made explosives would have led to carnage, officials said.

Both commemorations were attended by scores of war veterans and dignitaries -
including the Queen - as well as thousands of members of the public.

Mr Cameron had been expected to deliver a statement to MPs solely on the refugee
crisis caused by people fleeing the devastating civil war between IS and
President Assad in Syria.

But, after pledging to provide sanctuary to 20,000 Syrians in the UK, he stunned
MPs with the revelations about the operation against Khan, a 21-year-old from
Cardiff who has featured in IS recruitment propaganda.

The strike by the RAF drone was carried out without Parliamentary authority on
August 21 - two weeks ago, when Parliament was not sitting. Two IS fighters -
including Amin - were also killed in the attack, but no civilians died. Three
days later, a second Briton believed to have been involved in plots against the
UK, Junaid Hussain, was killed in a US air strike. Amin was born in Bangladesh
but grew up in the Froghall area of Aberdeen before moving to Leicester with his
family.

In 2014, he appeared in an IS recruitment video after learning about the
terrorist group on Twitter and travelling to Syria.

Asked if he would repeat the drone strike against Khan, the Prime Minister told
MPs: 'Would we repeat this? If it is necessary to safeguard the UK and act in
self-defence, and there are no other ways of doing it, then yes, I would.'
Saying there had been 'no alternative', he added: 'There was a terrorist
directing murder on our streets and no other means to stop him,' he said.

Mr Cameron insisted that the decision to take out Khan was not designed to
soften up MPs and the public to back wider military action in Syria. He said he
would stick to his pledge to hold a Commons vote - probably next month - before
ordering the RAF to conduct bombing raids against Islamic State terrorists in
Syria.

Last night Amin's cousin Sueb Miah said: 'It's a real shock. When I was growing
up with him he was a good boy.' Family friend Maqbool Chaudry, 46, said he
believed Amin had wanted to return to Britain - but felt unable to do so. He
said: 'I spoke to him after he left, but not directly, and he said that he
didn't think he would come back again. He said he was a dead man anyway.'

Stephen Marvin, a long time school friend of Amin, told ITV News he had
'deserved what he got'. He said: 'I feel sympathy for his family of course. It's
not their fault at all but it's hard to say he didn't get what he deserved in
the end.' Comment - Page 14 PAGES 6-7 The terror poster boys

'No other means to stop him'

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 8:33 AM GMT

Reyaad Khan: The former straight-A student who plotted terror massacre;
Reyaad Khan became one of Britain's most wanted men after joining Isil in Syria
and plotting to carry out "outrageous and barbaric" terrorist attacks in Britain

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 433 words


Just six years ago Reyaad Khan was a straight-A student from Cardiff who
harboured aspirations of becoming the Britain's first Asian Prime Minister.

By last month, however, he had become one of Britain's most wanted men after
joining Isil in Syria and plotting to carry out "outrageous and barbaric"
terrorist attacks on British soil.

On Monday it emerged that the threat he posed to Britain was so grave that he
had been secretly targeted and killed by and RAF drone in the first British
air-strike in Syria.

Khan grew up in a terraced house in the Welsh capital in the same road as Abdul
Miah, one of the ringleaders of a foiled plot to unleash a Mumbai-style terror
attack on London.

Former schoolmates at Cantonian High School in Cardiff remembered him as a
talented scholar who had moderate views and mixed well with people of all
backgrounds.

In 2009 he met Ed Balls, the former shadow chancellor, at a youth club and told
him of his political ambitions. In a Facebook post he subsequently said he
wanted to become the country's first Asian Prime Minister.

A year later, however, there were signs that his views were becoming more
extreme.

In an interview he argued the government had wasted resources on "illegal wars"
and said more money ought to be spent on young people to help prevent them being
led down the "wrong path".

Asked whether the world was a good place, Khan replied: "The world can be a
lovely place but you've just got to get rid of the evil. If everyone could
choose the good, the evil will go away."

In 2013 friends noticed his interest in religion appeared to intensify and he
successfully applied to study at the Madinah University in Saudi Arabia -
although he did not take up the position.

After becoming radicalised, he travelled to Syria for the first time in November
2013, where he joined Isil and posted messages on Twiter boasting of the people
he had killed and his extremist plans.

In July 2014 he wrote: "Executed many prisoners yesterday."

A few days later he tweeted: "Probably saw the longest decapitation ever. And we
made sure the knife was sharp."

A few days later it was followed by the message: "Anyone want to sponsor my
explosive belt? Gucci, give me a shout."

One of his final tweets on July 7 said: "Seek the times when the duas [prayers]
are more likely to be answered and remember us in them."

He featured in a prominent Islamic State propaganda video last year alongside
his friend Nasser Muthana, also from Cardiff, and Abdul Raqib Amin, also known
as Ruhul Amin, who is understood to have studied in Aberdeen.

Amin was also killed in the drone strike.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Iran condemns terror attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 9 September: Foreign Ministry spokesperson by expressing sympathy with
Turkish government and nation, condemned terrorist attacks and killing civilians
and military officers of the country.

According to the Foreign Ministry Media Department on Wednesday [9 September],
Marziyeh Afkham answered a question about entering Turkey's armed forces into
Iraqi territory to chase terrorists, said Iran believes every kind of action
which violates territorial integrity and national sovereignty would turn
critical situation in the region more complex and will bear justification for
interference of alien countries in the region.

By expressing concern about continuation of the situation, she called for
restarting the peace negotiations. Turkey's military and security forces in the
past several days have been attacked in eastern part of the country and
sustained heavy losses.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1610 gmt 9 Sep
15

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 7:48 AM GMT

TERROR ALERT: UK faces attack in WEEKS, Government warns - more drone strikes
imminent

BYLINE: Macer Hall, Greg Heffer and Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 1464 words


TERRORISTS are planning to strike in Britain within WEEKS, the Defence Secretary
has warned, as he said the Government "would not hesitate" to launch further
drone strikes against British jihadis in Syria.

GETTY

Michael Fallon warned Britain should be braced for terror attacks in coming
weeks

Michael Fallon's chilling warning that further attacks on UK soil are being
planned by "a number" of so-called Islamic State militants came a day after the
Prime Minister revealed that British jihadist Reyaad Khan, who plotted to blow
up the Queen, was wiped out in a RAF drone strike.

Two other British jihadis were also killed.

The defence secretary revealed  there were more than three people who
represented such threat to the UK that airstrikes against them could be
authorised, and after much pressing, the Government has now released a
'kill-list', which includes Jihadi John.

He said: "There are other terrorists involved in other plots that may come to
fruition over the next few weeks and months and we wouldn't hesitate to take
similar action again.

"There is a group of people who have lists of targets in our country, who are
planning armed attacks on our streets, who are planning to disrupt major public
events in this country and our job to keep us safe, with the security agencies,
is to find out who they are, to track them down and, if there is no other way of
preventing these attacks, then yes we will authorise strikes like we did."

He added: "Imagine the outcry if it transpired that one of the events were to
take place but we had done nothing about it.

Related articles  REVEALED: The terrifying map that PROVES the world is MORE...
Now families of British jihadists killed in Syria could SUE...

"We wouldn't hesitate to do it again if we know an armed attack is likely."

Cardiff-born Reyaad Khan, 21, was blitzed in a targeted remote-control attack
near Raqqah last month, the Prime Minister revealed yesterday.

Two other Islamist fighters - including British-born Ruhul Amin, from Birmingham
- were also killed when their vehicle was hit by a precision missile.

The strike, on August 21, was the first time that a British drone aircraft has
been used to kill enemy targets in a territory where UK Armed Forces are not
directly involved in combat operations.

And Mr Cameron insisted he sanctioned the unprecedented military action in
response threats of massive terrorist outrages on British soil.

"We took this action because there was no alternative," the Prime Minister told
a hushed House of Commons this afternoon.

AFP

Khan was targeted by an unmanned RAF aircraft near the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa

"We were exercising the UK's inherent right to self defence," he said.

Another British-born jihadist involved in plotting terrorist outrages in the UK,
21-year-old Junaid Hussein, was killed in a US airstrike in Raqqah three days
later, MPs were told.

Khan and Hussain were seeking to recruit other British nationals and plotting
"barbaric attacks" on the UK mainland, the Prime Minister said.

They were understood to be linked to a plot to detonate a massive bomb at the
commemoration in London to mark the 70th anniversary of VJ Day, the end of the
Second World War.

The Queen, Prince Charles and other senior members of the Royal Family were
among dignitaries at the ceremony held in Whitehall.

MI5 agents thwarted the assassination plot, which involved the planned
detonation of a massive pressure cooker bomb capable of causing hundreds of
casualties.

The ISIS terrorists were also though to have plotted to attack an annual Armed
Forces Day event in London over the summer.

Related articles  Young jihad Britons in recruitment video 'radicalised by
websites'...  Young ISIS fighter who wanted to be UK's first Asian Prime...

Both plots were among six attempts to launch major terrorist outrages in Britain
over the last 12 months that have been thwarted by police and the security
services, the Prime Minister said.

Mr Cameron authorised the Reaper drone strike after British spies identified a
"direct threat" from Khan.

He discussed the threat with senior members of his National Security Council,
agreeing to use a remote control aircraft over Syrian territory.

Once the vehicle carrying Khan and other fighters was identified near Raqqah,
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon gave the order for the drone to attack.

Mr Cameron insisted the strike was within international law even though
Parliament has not voted in favour of military action by Britain's Armed Forces
in Syria.

"My first duty as prime minister is to keep the British people safe," the Prime
Minister said.

"There was a terrorist directing murder on our streets and no other means to
stop him. This government does not for one moment take these decisions lightly.

"But I am not prepared to stand here in the aftermath of a terrorist attack on
our streets and have to explain to the House why I did not take the chance to
prevent it when I could have done," the Prime Minister told MPs.

He added: "Both Junaid Hussain and Reyaad Khan were British nationals based in
Syria who were involved in actively recruiting ISIL sympathisers and seeking to
orchestrate specific and barbaric attacks against the West including directing a
number of planned terrorist attacks right here in Britain, such as plots to
attack high profile public commemorations, including those taking place this
summer.

"We should be under no illusion. Their intention was the murder of British
citizens. So on this occasion we ourselves took action."

No civilians were injured in the drone attack, the Prime Minister told MPs.

"I am clear that the action we took was entirely lawful.

"The Attorney General was consulted and was clear there would be a clear legal
basis for action in international law," he said.

GETTY

Khan was linked to a plot to kill the Queen at a VJ Day anniversary event over
the summer

"There was clear evidence of the individuals in question planning and directing
armed attacks against the UK.

"These were part of a series of actual and foiled attempts to attack the UK and
our allies.

"And in the prevailing circumstances in Syria, the airstrike was the only
feasible means of effectively disrupting the attacks planned and directed by
this individual.

"So it was necessary and proportionate for the individual self-defence of the
UK."

Mr Cameron also warned that the direct threat to the UK from ISIS was "growing".
There were 15 ISIS-related incidents around the world in 2014 but already 150
such incidents have been recorded this year.

Straight-A pupil Khan, who used the jihadist name Abu Dujana Britani, was a
former pupil at Cantonian High School and St David's Catholic sixth-form college
in the Welsh capital.

He travelled to Syria in 2013 having believed to have been radicalised by
extremist websites.

Khan appeared alongside fellow Cardiff extremist Nasser Muthana in a chilling
ISIS propaganda video.

Meanwhile Hussain, who was married to female British jihadist Sally Jones, was
the mastermind of ISIS's online recruitment cell.

The couple were dubbed 'Mr and Mrs Terror'.

PA

David Cameron described the deadly drone strike as "self defence"

In August 2013, MPs rejected possible British military intervention against
Syria's dictator President Basha al-Assad in order to prevent the use of
chemical weapons on civilians.

Mr Cameron failed to win the support of then Labour leader Ed Miliband as he saw
his Government defeated in a Commons vote.

However, it is believed the Prime Minister will again push for a vote on
military action, in the form of British forces being called upon to conduct
airstrikes against ISIS targets in Syria.

The RAF is already part of a US-led coalition bombing jihadists in Iraq, while
British pilots were recently revealed to have been taking part in raids in Syria
while embedded with US and Canadian forces.

PA

The Prime Minister is likely to face questions over his decision to authorise
military action brightcove.createExperiences;

A new Parliamentary vote to authorise British bombing raids in Syria could hinge
on the election of the new Labour leader.

The four candidates to replace Mr Miliband as leader of the Opposition - Jeremy
Corbyn, Ms Cooper, Andy Burnham and Liz Kendall - have so far declined to expand
British airstrikes on ISIS militants into Syria.

Hard-left candidate Mr Corbyn, currently the favourite to win the Labour
leadership ballot, today repeated his opposition to a Syrian bombing campaign by
British forces.

Related articles 'Just wait...' Islamic State reveals it has smuggled THOUSANDS
of extremists into Europe Islamic State: ISIS orders parents to MARRY OFF their
daughters to its depraved fighters France to launch airstrikes against ISIS -
now Cameron must set out his stall Labour candidates refuse to confirm they will
help end refugee crisis by bombing Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 12:47 PM GMT

Drone strikes by UK and Pakistan point to Obama's counter-terror legacy;
Countries' attacks on their own citizens vindicate those who warned that the US
president's signature practice would echo around the world as the British and
Pakistani strikes look unlikely to be their last

BYLINE: Spencer Ackerman in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1134 words


Two drone strikes by two different countries nearly 3,000km apart this week
represent the proliferation of Barack Obama's signature mode of
counter-terrorism.

When the UK and Pakistan announced on Monday that they had each carried out
lethal drone strikes against their own citizens, they followed a template
sketched by Obama over the past seven years - one that critics have warned risks
greater destabilization and legal abuse.

While a few other nations, particularly Israel, have conducted drone strikes in
the past, experts have long warned that the proliferation of drone strikes would
be inevitable after the US embraced them so enthusiastically early in Obama's
presidency.

Related: Pakistani army claims it has killed three militants using its Burraq
drone

The UK and Pakistan conducted their drone strikes in the US style: secretive
attacks on an undeclared battlefield, rather than as part of an declared war.

"Those of us who have criticized the Obama administration's targeted killing
policy have long warned that other states cite it to attempt to justify their
own legal violations. The concerns were, however, over Russia, China, and North
Korea, not the United Kingdom," said Mary Ellen O'Connell, a law professor at
the University of Notre Dame.

David Cameron confirmed on Monday that the RAF conducted a drone strike on 21
August that killed two British citizens who had joined the Islamic State (Isis).
The strike was taken outside the current US-led coalition targeting Isis in Iraq
and Syria, making it an exclusively UK operation - and Cameron's prerogative.

Cameron acknowledged that he ordered the strike in Syria despite parliament
rejecting UK airstrikes on the country in 2013, albeit against a different
enemy. But in language reminiscent of Obama's, he told MPs that an assessed need
to " prevent a very real threat to our country " was a prevailing factor,
particularly after the attorney general issued a secret ruling blessing the
strike as legal. All these factors distinguished the targeted killing operation
from the drone strikes the UK has previously carried out on the declared
battlefield of Afghanistan.

British ministers also signaled that the strike killing Reyaad Khan and Ruhul
Amin was unlikely to be Britain's last. Michael Fallon, the UK defense
secretary, denied that the UK had a "kill list" equivalent to Obama's "
disposition matrix ". But Fallon said that " we would not hesitate " to kill
others whom the UK understands to represent active terrorist threats, all
without disclosing the evidence justifying that designation or subjecting it to
scrutiny. It is likely that the British member of Isis known as " Jihadi John "
is also a potential target for a British drone strike.

Cameron's disclosure risked overshadowing another development in the history of
drone strikes. On Monday, Pakistani military spokesman Asim Bajwa tweeted to say
that the "1st ever use of Pak made Burraq Drone" had that day killed "3 high
profile terrorists" in the country's northern Waziristan - the epicenter of US
drone attacks in Pakistan. The strike represented the achievement of an ambition
the Pakistani military announced in March, indicating that it will not be
Pakistan's last.

Pakistani politicians have for years railed against the US strikes, even as
Pakistan secretly provided the CIA with access to its Shamsi airfield. Bilateral
acrimony grew so bad in 2011, particularly after the US raid to kill Osama bin
Laden in Pakistan, that Pakistan kicked the US out of Shamsi. But neither US
drone strikes in Pakistan nor Pakistani anger over them have ceased.

Related: Right of self-defence central to legal debate over Syria drone strike

"The drone strike announcements were made before any public policy debate or
discussion, and officials from both [Pakistani and British] governments have
refrained from answering questions directly or providing clarifying information
to know if their practice is aligned with their policy justifications," said
Micah Zenko, an expert on drones at the Council on Foreign Relations.

The Pakistani and UK strikes have vindicated the warnings of former officials
that the US use of drone strikes " outside of hot battlefields is likely to be
imitated by other states ", as a Stimson Center task force found in 2014. The
task force, which included several retired military and intelligence officers,
warned that such proliferation "may cause or increase instability, and further
increase the risk of widening conflicts in regions around the globe".

Pakistan is the latest member of a growing technological club of nations: those
who have successfully weaponized drones. In addition to the US, UK and Israel, a
recent New America Foundation report highlighted credible accounts that Iran,
South Africa, France, China and Somalia possess armed drones, as do the
terrorist groups Hamas and Hezbollah. Russia says it is working on its own
model.

Yet it is not merely the possession of armed drones, a technological
development, that marks a country as following in Obama's footsteps. It is the
use of them for what Obama calls "targeted killing": identifying and marking
specific people for death.

While the administration has portrayed its drone strikes as an alternative to a
broader and bloodier military campaign, years of disclosures have revealed that
"targeting" has amounted to killing military-aged males carrying weapons in
areas where terrorists operate. At least 4,700 people have died in US drone
strikes, according to a 2013 estimate by a US senator. At least four of them,
Obama acknowledged that year, have been American citizens; a fifth American was
killed in January. At least two of them have been hostages of Isis whom the US
did not mean to kill.

The proliferation of a method of secretive killing that critics consider
21st-century assassination is probably not how Barack Obama sees his legacy.

Obama may prefer to consider that his lasting contribution to international
affairs has been a landmark diplomatic accord to forestall an Iranian nuclear
weapon, or the re-establishment of diplomatic relations with Cuba. Yet the UK
and Pakistani strikes are a reminder that the US president's foreign policy
legacy will stretch far beyond his administration's self-identified
achievements.

"The US has already set a troubling precedent by violating international law in
many instances through targeted killings; that the UK is now also willing to
deliberately kill people outside of an armed conflict, and obfuscate the legal
basis behind such killings, simply compounds the problem," observed Andrea
Prasow of Human Rights Watch.

"The law hasn't changed, but US allies' willingness to accept violations of the
law may have, and it is a scary world for all of us if rules that govern lethal
force can simply be tossed out the window."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 11:55 PM GMT

Altrincham legend Graham Heathcote's pride at son's debut winner for Robins,
just months after family's Tunisia terror attack tragedy;
Teenager Sam scores in last minute against Cheltenham with dad Graham - a former
Altrincham player and manager - watching from the stands

BYLINE: By men

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 449 words


Altrincham legend Graham Heathcote was beaming with pride after seeing his
teenage son Sam make a dream debut for the Robins on Saturday.

The 18-year-old came on against Cheltenham as a stoppage-time substitute to
shore up an increasingly-stretched Alty defence with the score locked at 1-1.

But seconds later the young centre-back found himself unmarked on the edge of
the box and he netted a dramatic winner with only his second touch as an Alty
player .

Striker Michael Rankine bustled his way along the goalline to cut the ball back
to Heathcote.

And without a moment's hesitation, the ex-United junior drilled a first-time
shot into the bottom corner to seal the Robins' third straight home win in the
Vanarama National League.

It sparked euphoric scenes as Heathcote disappeared under a pile of Alty players
in front of the Family Stand, where dad Graham looked on from his usual seat.

Heathcote senior was a goalscoring inside-right in the famed FA Cup giantkilling
team of the 70s and 80s and went on to serve as secretary, coach and manager in
a 40-year association with the club.

Reflecting on a fairytale debut that earned Sam a spontaneous ovation when he
stepped into the Community Sports Hall bar afterwards, Graham said: "Just seeing
him go on for his Altrincham debut made me proud.

"It was a wonderful moment for me, given my history with this club and, like any
dad, I was just hoping he didn't do  anything wrong.

"Of course, it was the opposite. It was great to see the ball hit the back of
the net and Sam celebrating with the other players right where I was sitting.

"There were some women near me actually crying. They remember seeing him coming
to the ground with me, basically from being a baby.

"They remember him coming to the fun-weeks as a kid. Now he's running them with
(assistant manager) Neil Tolson. It got very emotional.

"I have to say, it didn't surprise me to see him finish like that," he added.

"He was a centre-forward at United up to 11 - and a decent one at that. I've
seen him score some terrific goals and he certainly caught that one cleanly!"

The family has had a traumatic year, with Graham's brother Philip one of the 38
victims killed in the Tunisian beach terror attack in June.

"Football is like everything else, there are ups and downs," said Graham.

"I lost my brother a couple of months ago, so you keep things in perspective.

"Sam still has a long way to go but he couldn't have wished for a better start.
I had a quick word after and said 'well done, son - just another 152 to go!'

"He needs a few more to catch me up.

"You need a long memory to recall hearing 'Altrincham goalscorer Heathcote' over
the tannoy at this ground, but it was nice hearing it again."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 8:29 PM GMT

Alberto Nisman could not have killed himself, ballistics tests show;
The prosecutor investigating Argentina's worst-ever terrorist attack was shot
dead by someone else

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 294 words


Alberto Nisman, the Argentine prosecutor who was found dead in January while
preparing a high profile case against his country's president, did not fire the
gun that was found by his body, ballistic reports have suggested.

In the latest twist to the case, a series of tests carried out in a laboratory
in the northern Argentine city of Salta have shown that the gun that killed
Nisman would have left traces of gunpowder on the hand that pulled the trigger.
Tests done on Nisman's hands in the days following his death found no such
residue.

His ex-wife, Judge Sandra Arroyo, said the new tests on the gun proves someone
else shot him .

Nisman, 51, was investigating Argentina's worst ever terrorist attack - the 1994
bombing of a Jewish cultural centre - when he was found dead inside his locked
apartment with a gun by his side.

Nisman was due to testify the following day at a parliamentary committee to
argue that he believed President Cristina Kirchner had covered up Iranian
responsibility for the bombing, in return for favourable oil and grain deals -
something Mrs Kirchner strenuously denies .

Viviana Fein, who is leading the investigation into Nisman's death, said the
latest tests cannot be fully accurate because they cannot recreate the crime
scene. "We can't take one piece of proof in an isolated way," she said.

The prosecutor said her findings will not be published until after the October
general elections, when Mrs Kirchner will have to step down after serving two
terms.

Ms Arroyo has commissioned her own investigation and strongly criticised Ms
Fein's process, describing it as "a crappy investigation".

Last week Nisman and Ms Arroyo's two daughters unsuccessfully petitioned the
Criminal Appeals court to have Ms Fein taken off the case.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'My sons deserve to die - if they plot terror attack in UK'

BYLINE: Huw Silk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words


THE father of two Cardiff jihadis who travelled to Syria to fight alongside
Islamic State terrorists believes his sons would "deserve" to die if there was
evidence they planned to attack the UK.

Ahmed Muthana said he fears his sons could be killed by targeted RAF attacks
after Prime Minister David Cameron told MPs on Monday that Cardiff terrorist
Reyaad Khan had been killed in a targeted British drone attack.

Khan appeared in notorious IS recruitment video There is No Life Without Jihad
alongside one-time aspiring medical student Nasser Muthana, also from Cardiff.

Nasser's teenage brother Aseel also subsequently travelled to Syria to join
forces with extremists.

Now their father, a retired electrical engineer originally from Yemen, said he
was worried they will be the next to die on the orders of the British
Government.

Mr Muthana was reported by the BBC as saying: "I think they are on a hit list.
They're targeting everyone now. I ask the prime minister not to target them, but
if they have evidence I don't mind, they deserve it... but I don't think they
are involved in attacks on the UK."

Speaking about Khan's death he added: "I think the prime minister is hiding
something. He's making excuses. They just want to intervene in Syria. He's
making it up when he says there's information. If he has the proof then he has
the right to kill them, but he should publish that proof. I think it was done
for political reasons."

The 57-year-old, from the Butetown area of Cardiff, told the Telegraph: "Of
course I am worried that my boys are now on a Government hit list. I am worried
that this will be their fate."

Mr Cameron has said the decision to kill Khan and fellow Briton Ruhul Amin was
justified on the grounds of selfdefence. He told Parliament: "There was a
terrorist directing murder on our streets and no other means to stop them."

Mr Muthana indicated if Government intelligence was correct, the killing of Khan
could have been justified.

"If what the Government says is true [about planned terrorist attacks] then it
was right what they did," he said.

But he added: "We have seen problems in the past with Tony Blair and the Iraq
War, so it is hard to know if what they are saying is true. I don't know if
David Cameron is telling the truth."

He said he still felt tremendously saddened by the events of the past year but
his initial anger has now given way to deep regret.

He told The Guardian he remained sceptical that Khan had been plotting an attack
on British soil and that he understood his father's pain.

"I saw him at the mosque and told him I was sorry. He's a good man.

"He can't believe his son was involved in something like this (an alleged
planned attack on British soil). Nobody can believe it."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nasser Muthana, left, and Aseel Muthana <B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Turkish pro-Kurdish party offices attacked in several anti-terrorism protests

LENGTH: 588 words


Text of report in English by website of Turkish pro-secular, mass-circulation
daily Hurriyet on 10 September

Nationwide demonstrations have been held in Turkey to protest recent terrorist
acts, following calls from far-right organizations, while several of them turned
violent on Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) buildings in many cities, including
Ankara.

The HDP headquarters in Turkey's capital of Ankara as well as local party
buildings across the country have been attacked in demonstrations, protesting
the killings of security personnel in outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)
attacks in the country's east and southeast.

Thousands of protesters waving Turkish flags, including Nationalist Movement
Party Deputy Group Chair Oktay Vural, Idealist Hearths Head Olcay Kilavuz and
MHP Ankara Provincial Head Baki Cetinkaya, staged a demonstration in Ankara on
Sept. 8 upon a call for protest by Idealist Hearths ("Ulku Ocaklari" in
Turkish), a far-right organization with purportedly close links to the
Nationalist Movement Party (MHP).

Kilavuz said large numbers of police officers and soldiers had been killed in a
spate of "cowardly attacks" since July 20, a markedly momentous date in recent
Turkish history with a deadly bomb attack, which the Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levent (ISIL) claimed responsibility for, that left dozens dead and over 100
others injured in the southeastern town of Suruc.

Around 50 protesters marched towards Ankara's HDP headquarters to enter the
building, but faced a police barricade at the entry and exit of the street where
the headquarters is located.

Several protesters who escaped the barricade hurled stones at the building,
smashed the HDP banner at its entry and hoisted a Turkish flag on HDP's flag
pole after police officers fired tear gas to disperse the crowd.

In protests staged in the central Anatolian province of Kirsehir, four
workplaces owned by Kurdish people were burnt and 13 offices owned by Kurds were
smashed. Some 30 suspects were detained for violent acts in the central Turkish
city.

In a march staged in the northwestern province of Balikesir in protest against
attacks on soldiers in the eastern province of Igdir and the southeastern
province of Hakkari, a large number of protesters hurled stones at HDP's
building in Balikesir's Burhaniye district, smashing the building's windows. A
police officer was injured in the incident.

In a march in the western province of Manisa, hundreds of protesters hurled
stones at HDP's building in the Salihli district following a funeral of a
soldier killed in Sept. 6's deadly roadside bomb attack in Hakkari's Daglica
district.

In a march staged by a thousand protesters in Istanbul's Maltepe district, a
group attempted to enter a HDP Maltepe building but faced a police barricade.
The group, however, did beat a person who chanted slogans that cited Abdullah
Ocalan, the jailed leader of the outlawed PKK.

In a protest staged in the southern province of Mersin, thousands of protestors
marched, waving Turkish flags. A group of them hurled stones at HDP's provincial
building, smashing it. Three police officers were injured in the incidents.

In the Mediterranean province of Antalya, protesters set a HDP building ablaze
in Antalya's Alanya district, along with an office owned by a Kurdish man.

In a separate protest in the central Anatolian province of Konya, much was set
on fire in a HDP building and several protesters placed a Turkish flag on the
party's flag pole.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 10 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Embassy Warns Of Possible Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 73  words



HIGHLIGHT: The US Embassy in South Africa issued a warning of a possible
terrorist attack by extremists targeting US interests in the country on
September 8, without elaborating on 'additional information as to timing or
potential targeting', reports the Latin American Herald Tribune.


News: The US Embassy in South Africa issued a warning of a possible terrorist
attack by extremists targeting US interests in the country on September 8,
without elaborating on 'additional information as to timing or potential
targeting', reports the Latin American Herald Tribune. The US government has
also advised its citizens in South Africa to review their 'personal security
plans' and to remain aware and vigilant of their surroundings.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 6:52 PM GMT

Hunt for ISIS jihadi 'hiding as refugee in Calais camp as he plots terror attack
on UK'

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 586 words


A SYRIAN man suspected of being an Islamic State terrorist plotting attacks in
Britain is currently in hiding in the Calais migrant camp, it has been claimed.

GETTY

An ISIS suspect is thought to be hiding in The Jungle 2 migrant camp in Calais

French authorities have launched a manhunt for the suspect, who they believe
poses a threat to national security, according to reports in local media.

The unnamed man has been listed as a Subcategory S suspect, which means he is
considered a potential risk to the state.

French security bosses have his photograph, description, what he is wanted for
and what to do if he is discovered.

The category is also used to describe thousands of wanted criminals and runaway
prisoners.

Related articles  'Just wait...' Islamic State reveals it has smuggled THOUSANDS
of...  EXCLUSIVE: Refugees are prime candidates to become lone wolf...

French police have been ordered to arrest him if they see him.

He may have joined the Calais migrants sleeping rough in The Jungle II migrant
camp, according to local media.

They claim the suspect, who left Syria in August, is intending to travel to
Britain to commit acts of terror.

Ukip defence spokesman Mike Hookem said the news marked "a wake up call to
people who are putting the safety of British people at risk thanks to their knee
jerk reactions."

Speaking in Strasbourg, where European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker
called on all countries to help refugees, Mr Hookem said it demonstrates that
"current policy, sparked by one photograph, has made politicians throw caution
to the wind."

He said: "These suspected terrorists are the same people the EU and left wing
politicians like Labour and the Greens would have us all virtually welcome into
our homes.

"The open border policy is a gift to terrorists who would destroy our way of
life and I am sure IS is only too delighted that the huge numbers leaving the
Middle East for Europe not only provide them with ready cash but have also made
getting terrorists into countries across Europe much easier.

"And instead the EU, US and UK would have us concentrate on attacking President
Assad and removing the few remaining borders left.

"I hope this is a wake up call and we can now start acting to stop this huge
security threat."

brightcove.createExperiences;

GETTY

The Jungle 2 migrant camp in Calais has thousands of migrants making daily bids
for Britain

The news comes amid claims ISIS are using Europe's refugee crisis to smuggle
thousands of terrorists into Europe.

An ISIS operative said 4,000 gunmen have already been smuggled into Europe.

It brings into question the European Union's policies to tackle the refugee
crisis, which has seen different nations taking on different approaches.

Sweden has announced it will offer asylum to any refugee who steps foot on its
land and Germany said is expected to welcome 800,000 this year.

It has led to chaotic scenes as families have had to storm security in mainland
Greece, Macedonia, Serbia and Hungary.

Denmark closed its borders with Germany today after hundreds of migrants took to
walking on the MOTORWAY in a bid to reach Sweden.

Related articles 'Just wait...' Islamic State reveals it has smuggled THOUSANDS
of extremists into Europe IS smuggles jihadists to Europe disguised as desperate
refugees, warns Nato chief Mediterranean migrant crisis: ISIS terrorists will
exploit 'biblical' exodus, warns Farage US aid worker had finger nails pulled
out, was raped and then forced to marry ISIS leader

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

EU rail chiefs discuss train security after foiled French terror attack

SECTION: NEWS AGENDA

LENGTH: 72 words


A European rail security working group meet to discuss the recent
recommendations made by ministers to tighten security measures on international
trains in light of the foiled terrorist attack in France on 21 Aug. The
recommendations, which incl increased identity and baggage checks, will be
finalised by EU transport ministers on 7-8 Oct

Event Start Date: 2015-09-11

Event End Date: 2015-09-11

Event URL: http://www.consilium.europa.eu

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 8:14 PM GMT

Couple reveal the horror for being caught in the Tunisia terror attack as it is
revealed survivors are planning to sue holiday firms for compensation

BYLINE: SAM MATTHEW FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words



     ·    Kirsty Murray, 26, was shot in both legs by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
     ·    On holiday with fiancee Radley Ruszkiewicz when 38 people were killed
     ·    Says her life has changed 'beyond recognition' as a result of attack
     ·    Holiday provider Thomson now facing legal action from holidaymakers


Relaxing in the pool of their all-inclusive resort, when Kirsty Murray and her
fiancee first heard a series of bangs they initially put it down to fireworks.

The 26-year-old nursery nurse was on an all-inclusive break with partner Radley
Ruszkiewicz in the resort of Sousse, Tunisia.

It was only when they saw people rushing towards them, terror etched on their
faces, that they realised something was terribly wrong.

Miss Murray was shot in both legs after gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire,
killing 38 tourist and injuring a further 39.

The couple were separated for 24 hours and both believed the other was dead.

 A group of Britons who survived the attack have now started legal action
against holiday providers Thomson, part of the TUI Group.

Several families who lost loved ones are also part of the lawsuit and claim
Thomson failed to provide adequate security at its hotel.

 'I get angry because the life I had has been changed beyond recognition,' said
Miss Murray, who has undergone 10 operations and faces further surgery.

'I've worked since I was 16 - now I can't. I can hardly walk - although they say
I will.

'I am a young woman, I've always cared about my appearance, and now the whole
bottom half of my body is covered in wounds and scars, I've put on weight with
all the medication and I don't know if I'll ever be the same again.

'All my dignity was taken from me.

'I know I should be happy to be alive when so many people died, but at the
moment I just feel sad.'

She continued:  'If I'm out and there's a bang, or someone drops something, I
panic until I know what it is.'

Mr Ruszkiewic, who has been diagnosed with PTSD and panics at the slightest
bang, admit they don't really talk about what happened.

'I don't want to say anything in case it upsets Kirsty,' said 29-year-old Mr
Ruszkiewicz.

Mr Ruszkiewicz, a self-employed bricklayer, treated his fiance to an
all-inclusive summer holiday in Tunisia - and arrived the day before the
shooting.

'We strolled down the beach an hour before the shooting started,' said Miss
Murray.

'Then we went to the pool. We had a few drinks, took a few selfies and were
messing around in the water when I heard what I thought were fireworks - but
they turned out to be gunshots.

'Then people started rushing towards the hotel, panic and terror written on
their faces.

'Radley said we had to run so we did, still dripping in our costumes.'

They fled inside the hotel and down a corridor behind reception but were pursued
by Rezqui, 23, who was armed with a Kalashnikov rifle, home-made bombs and hand
grenades.

'I heard Radley say 'Run, just f***** run!' and we headed for an open door into
a courtyard,' said Miss Murray.

'Then I just remember everything went fuzzy - like when your TV goes on the
blink. No pain - but that was when the grenade hit.

'Radley and I were split up and I thought I'd never see him again.'

Miss Murray was shot five times by the ISIS fanatic as she fled a grenade blast
that left Mr Ruszkiewicz with horrific leg injuries.

The pair were separated for 24 hours after the attack - while both thought the
other was dead.

The couple from Braintree, Essex, were flown home to the UK two days later -
thanks to insurance Miss Murray took out over fears her suitcase could be lost.

She spent the next two months in Broomfield Hospital, Chelmsford, where she
underwent ten operations and skin grafts and faces years more surgery on her
legs.

Mr Ruszkiewicz  suffered severe wounds and a broken ankle but has now recovered
physically and is caring for his partner, who is still on morphine and other
strong painkillers.

Miss Murray added: 'This has changed us, and we have to learn how to cope -
together.

'But it isn't going to split us up.'

Formal claim letters had been sent to Thomson but no formal response had been
received, said the statement.

Clive Garner, head of the International Personal Injury team at Irwin Mitchell,
said: 'Given the history of escalating terrorist activity in Tunisia, by June
2015 there was a clear risk that tourists visiting Sousse may have been the
target of a terrorist attack.

'Our clients have been through the most appalling ordeal.

'Many of those who have lost loved ones and those lucky enough to survive the
attack will continue to bear the physical and emotional scars of events in
Sousse for the rest of their lives.

'Some of those left severely injured still need further surgery, as well as
specialist rehabilitation and therapy, as they seek to overcome both the
physical and psychological trauma that they continue to endure.'

Two weeks after the attack, thousands of tourists rushed to leave Tunisia after
Britain warned another attack was "highly likely" and told them to leave.

TUI, the world's largest leisure and tourism company, said in August that
cancelled holidays to Tunisia would cost it between 35 million euros and 40
million euros in total in its current financial year.

"It's our policy not to comment on legal action," a spokeswoman for Thomson said



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 6:33 PM GMT

Isil fighter hiding in Calais migrant camp with 'aim of committing terror
attacks in Britain', say local reports;
French police under orders to find and arrest Isil fighter on an Islamist
watchlist who returned from Syria in August and is hiding among migrants in
Calais, La Voix du Nord reports

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 468 words


An Isil fighter from Syria is hiding in a migrant camp in Calais with the aim of
illegally entering Britain to commit "terror attacks", according to local French
media.

French police have been told to locate and arrest the man who left Syria in
August and is on a French terror suspect watch list known as "fiche S",
according to La Voix du Nord, the regional French newspaper.

"His intention is to reach Britain to commit terrorist attacks," it wrote,
without citing sources.

The northern French daily said that police believe the man is living among some
3,500 migrants in a makeshift camp known as the "Jungle", which the French
government has announced will become an official refugee camp with 1,500 places
early next year.

The terror suspect watch list includes some 5,000 people, who are theoretically
flagged to authorities when they undergo an identity check, for example during
airport passport controls. The file includes a person's identity, a photograph,
reason for the person being on the list and how to handle the individual if
identified.

It is not known how authorities were first informed of the Isil fighter's
presence.

According to La Voix du Nord, police are under orders to "proceed with his
arrest". Local state authorities declined to comment but denied previous reports
that around 40 detectives had infiltrated migrants in Calais to detect any
potential Isil fighters in their midst.

A local police source also declined to confirm the report, but told the
Telegraph: "Who can guarantee that among the thousands of Syrians arriving in
Europe are not some jihadists?"

Migrant aid charities in Calais on Wednesday said that the presence of a
jihadist fighter among migrants in Calais was "entirely possible" as it is a
zone where no identity checks are carried out.

However, some people were sceptical. Claudine, a volunteer with the Salaam
charity told La Voix du Nord: "If a jihadist wants to go to England, he doesn't
need to hide. He'll have money, a false passport and a network - not like our
migrant friends here who are struggling to request asylum (in France) or to get
into England."

There are currently 3,500 migrants of Asian and African origin sleeping rough at
a camp on the outskirts of the town "tolerated" by local authorities, and 120
women and children are in sheltered accommodation at a former children's summer
camp nearby, called the Jules Ferry centre.

Hundreds more migrants camp out in wasteland closer to the motorways leading to
the ferry port.

Many make nightly attempts to break into the Eurotunnel site leading to the
Channel Tunnel entrance in the hope of climbing onto UK-bound Shuttle trains
carrying lorries.

In recent days, migrants have targeted the Calais-Fréthun Eurostar station at
the French end of the Eurotunnel whose security is being improved .

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 05:24 AM GMT

US Marks 14th Anniversary Of September 11 Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 277 words


NEW YORK (Alliance News) - The US marks 14 years since the September 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks with ceremonies Friday including a memorial service at the
newly opened visitor centre at the rural Pennsylvania site where one of four
hijacked airliners crashed.

Moments of silence will be held nationwide to commemorate the deadliest
terrorist attacks ever on US soil, which killed 2,977 people.

On September 11, 2001, extremists on suicide missions hijacked four passenger
jets, turning the aircraft into guided missiles against the two World Trade
Center towers in New York and the Pentagon defence headquarters outside
Washington.

A new memorial, which opened Thursday, honours the victims of United Airlines
flight 93, the fourth plane seized in the plot, which passengers apparently
crashed on a field in Pennsylvania to thwart an attack on Washington.

The Flight 93 National Memorial Visitor Centre, located just outside
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, pays tribute to the 40 passengers and crew who died
at the site, which is also the final resting place of the victims.

The plane was downed 20 minutes outside Washington, where it is believed that
the terrorists wanted to crash the plane into a target of the highest value,
suspected to be either the Capitol, where Congress meets, or the White House,
where the president lives and works.

In New York, a ceremony is planned at the National September 11 Memorial and
Museum, where family members will read the names of victims of the 2001 attacks
and those killed in the 1993 terrorist bombing at the World Trade Center.

In Washington, services will be held for victims' families at the Pentagon
Memorial.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 1:42 PM GMT

Dentist brutally attacked by Zack Davies calls him a 'coward';
Dr Sarandev Singh Bhambra said the attack would have been treated as an act of
terrorism if committed by 'a non-white'

BYLINE: By Gary Porter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


The young dentist who was brutally attacked by Zack Davies said the "barbaric"
incident had left him traumatised.

Dr Sarandev Singh Bhambra called Davies a "coward" in a statement he read out
after the 26-year-old was jailed for life for attempted murder.

He believes that if the attack had been carried out by a non-white the incident
would have been dealt with as an act of terrorism.

Dr Bhambra sustained a severed hand in the attack at Mold Tesco, but is hoping
to return to work in the "near future".

Tesco attacker Zack Davies sentenced to life in prison

He said: "On January 14, a white supremacist, Zack Davies, tried to kill me
because of my ethnicity.

"Until now, I have purposely shunned the media spotlight, as the whole barbaric
incident has been traumatic and stressful.

"While Zack Davies has been convicted and sentenced for attempting to kill me, I
am convinced that the background behind the incident has not been explored.

"Was I targeted? Mold is a small market town. Davies may have been aware of my
movements. By his own admission, Davies was a man that harboured a real hatred
for non-whites. Could this attack have been prevented?

"My brother delivered a statement following the trial. I reiterate now, in my
opinion, that had this attempted murder been committed by a non-white the
collective media and indeed the investigating authorities would have dealt with
this as an act of terrorism.

"How do I feel about my attacker? In truth I have no emotion and have attempted
to direct my energies elsewhere. He is a coward first and foremost.

"He attacked me from behind and intended to behead me. By the grace of God, I
remained conscious and was able to defend myself.

"It is abhorrent that he has claimed he tried to kill me in Lee Rigby's honour.

"I will never understand racial hatred. I would not wish this experience on
anyone."

Dr Bhambra thanked Peter Fuller, who bravely intervened during the attack, the
medical team who treated him, and his family for their support.

See Dr Bhambra's family deliver a statement following Davies' trial:

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 10:10 AM GMT

XMAS TERROR ATTACKS: Brits warned over ISIS targeting Christmas shoppers

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 1006 words


BRITS are being warned against Islamic State pulling off a Christmas "terror
spectacular" on UK soil.

GETTY

THREAT: ISIS terrorists could be making their way to cities in the Christmas
break

Major cities like London, Birmingham and Manchester are more at risk of coming
under attack during the festive season, according to a top counter-terrorism
chief.

Millions of Xmas shoppers will pack high streets and boozy revellers will fill
pubs and bars to party.

And as the nation drops its guard when the festivities get underway, this could
be the perfect time for the terror warlords to strike.

A lone ISIS gunman slaughtered 30 Brits on a Tunisian beach this summer - now
the fear is cities will be the next target as we move into the autumn and
winter.

Carrying out a mass casualty terrorist attack at Christmas would be major
propaganda coup for ISIS.

GETTY

TARGET: Christmas shoppers could be targeted by ISIS terrorists

GETTY

ISIS THREAT: ISIS killers could make their way to cities as holiday resorts
clear out

Iconic landmarks like Oxford Street, Parliament Square, the London Eye, St
Paul's Cathedral or Buckingham Palace thronging with Xmas crowds are ideal
"soft" targets.

Terror expert Will Geddes has warned a lone terrorist eager to bring carnage to
the streets of London could open fire - in the same way a gunman killed 30
innocent Brits holidaying in Tunisia.

Geddes, head of global security firm International Corporate Protection, has
warned ISIS terrorists could be turning their attention away from holiday
resorts and back towards targeting mainland cities like London.

He told Daily Star Online nowhere is safe from the threat of ISIS terrorists.

Mr Geddes said: "None of us are safe anywhere unless you are on a remote island.

"For groups like ISIS they want a maximum media impact with any horrific attack
that has people begging to return to their home nations.

"But those resorts are emptying out. It won't have the gravitas on an empty
resort.

"We may or may not see those threats moving more inland to major cities as one
would expect from any terrorist group.

"These risks may be moving more into central locations."

The window of opportunity for a Sousse-style attack is running out, according to
Mr Geddes, and said lone wolf-style attacks, similar to the one carried out by
Rezgui, are the worst case scenario in a major city.

"The problem is we have all got to accept these days that the threat could be
anywhere", Mr Geddes added.

"I am just as likely to be attacked going in to central London as I am on the
beach in Benidorm.

GETTY

FESTIVE: Terrorists could be heading to cities this Christmas  Terror expert
Will Geddes

"Lone wolf attacks are much more harder to detect.

"When you look at a terrorist group you ask 'what is their key objective?'. In
ISIS it will be to cause human death or casualty.

"They are very media savvy and will look for optimum carnage that will be
relayed around the world.

"If around London there is going to be more publicity in Parliament Square than
the backstreets of Wandsworth.

"Terrorists, as do criminals, look for the softest targets."

British and western tourists were under an extreme threat of attack at holiday
resorts across the Spanish coast and north Africa during the popular summer
holiday season.

The once-sun soaked beaches are emptying as the winter months draw near and
terrorists could be setting their sights on causing carnage in cities.

In June as 30 Brits were killed as they sunbathed by a lone gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui in the Tunisian holiday resort of Sousse.

IG

KILLER: Tunisia gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

The ISIS-inspired killer casually sailed to a seaside hotel and opened fire with
his Kalashnikov rifle.

The attack sent shockwaves around the world and made the threat against tourists
abroad a very reality.

Just days later Brit holidaymakers were warned ISIS were targeting popular
resorts across the Spanish coast.

Calum Jeffray, a national security expert with the Royal United Services
Institute, said the terror threat remains the same now as it was in the summer.

He told Daily Star Online: "It's not necessarily any worse as it has been over
the past few months.

"British holidaymakers are not specifically targeted by ISIS as they are more
focused on political objectives in Iraq and Syria.

"The attacks we have seen are lone wolf which are much more difficult for
authorities to identify and counter.

"I don't think tree's any need to be concerned. The threat in places like France
and Belgium remains high has there are a number of people from there that have
gone to fight for ISIS."

GETTY

RISK: Shoppers at Christmas are a "soft target"

Thailand is another popular destination for western winter sun seekers.

The capital Bangkok was the location of a devastating explosion in August.

The blast killed 20 people - including one Brit - at the Erawan Shrine.

But Tourism Thailand told Daily Star Online tourists have not been deterred by
the threat.

A spokesman said: "It was an isolated incident and not a regular occurrence.

"Tour operators have had very few cancellations.

"The general feeling is they still want to travel and believe it's safe.

"The advice to tourists is don't do anything to get yourself in trouble."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles ISIS hostage had fingernails
ripped out before being raped by Islamic State's sick leader Scouse aid to the
rescue: Liverpool gig to help fleeing Syrians Islamic State claims to be holding
two new hostages Find the Calais terrorist before he blows up UK: Police hunt
Isis terrorist in Calais camp

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 11, 2015 Friday

MASKED AND LETHAL, THE FIREARMS TEAM PRIMED TO STOP TERROR ATTACK AT NO 10

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 318 words


ARMED to the teeth with sophisticated weaponry, these were the firearms officers
guarding Downing Street yesterday.

They are members of the Metropolitan Police's elite SCO19 unit, stationed
outside Number 10 as Prime Minister David Cameron hosted Israeli counterpart
Benjamin Netanyahu for top-level talks.

The specialist officers were deployed amid fears a lone wolf' extremist could
attempt to murder the hardline Israeli leader. The day before, Hezbollah flags
had waved as pro-Palestinian campaigners protested outside Downing Street
denouncing Mr Netanyahu as a war criminal.

During yesterday's talks at least three officers sat in a fully armoured
four-wheel drive silver Land Rover, while a team of their colleagues were
stationed in another car nearby.

Officers usually carry weapons including Heckler and Koch G36C semi-automatic
rifles and Glock 17 9mm pistols. Each one is kitted out with body armour,
military-style ballistic helmets and modern communications devices.

Just yards from the fearsome security presence, delighted visitors from around
the world watch Changing the Guard in Horse Guards Parade.

A police expert said: They have clearly pulled out all the stops. That Land
Rover is as close as we are going to get to a US military Humvee on our streets.
They are fully armed and ready to act if there is an attack.'

Discussions between Mr Cameron and Mr Netanyahu focused on Syria and Iran,
particularly the nuclear deal bitterly opposed by Mr Netanyahu.

Ed do consequisi bla facinit atueros nit augait nissequat nim dunt et lummole
niatem dolore eumsandiam non erostin eum iure molore tate magna aliqui bla
feuisisl utetuerilit in ex enis ad do dolore vullan ut ip ent iusto diam ex
ercipis nos dolutpat, susci tie dolobore dit, consequam et eratum dunt lortiniat
at. Nonse cor adionulla feum vel utat. Duip et utat, si.

Lortinci erat ver iusciliquat aut am velisim quis nulla feugue

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           September 11, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I HAD TO SAVE MY BABY;
Dad tells of terror after savage dog attack

BYLINE: Mike Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 45 words


A DAD has spoken of the horrifying moment he stepped in the path of a charging
dog to protect his young son.

The heroic 27-year-old suffered more than 50 bite wounds when he was attacked by
a Japanese Akita which ran at his family on a busy Teesside road.

Full story: Pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 2:06 PM GMT

9/11 anniversary: Rare pictures reveal White House tension immediately after
attacks;
The US National Archives released photographs from inside the White House during
the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Alice Harrold

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 305 words


Rare images cast light on the tension among President George Bush and his senior
staff in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks.

The staff, including the former Secretary of State Colin Powell, National
Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice, and vice-President Dick Cheney, are shown in
the secure basement.

The Emergency Operations Centre is a bunker under the east wing of the White
House which was built to withstand a nuclear attack.

Vice-President Cheney was in command when the four hijacked passenger planes
crashed in New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, killing 2,996 people.

President Bush was visiting a school in Florida at the time at the time of the
attacks before being flown back to the White House.

Read more:US overreacted to 9/11 says terror expert Louise RichardsonTime lapse
shows 11-year construction of One WTC9/11 firefighter wins $5 million lottery
jackpot

Frontline filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna requested that the photos, taken by
vice-President Cheney's photographer, be released by the National Archives under
the Freedom of Information Act.

To see the full set, visit the National Archives' Flickr page.

Vice-President Cheney was in command when the four hijacked passenger planes
crashed in New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, killing 2,996 people.

President Bush was visiting a school in Florida at the time at the time of the
attacks before being flown back to the White House.

Read more:US overreacted to 9/11 says terror expert Louise RichardsonTime lapse
shows 11-year construction of One WTC9/11 firefighter wins $5 million lottery
jackpot

Frontline filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna requested that the photos, taken by
vice-President Mr Cheney's photographer, be released in July by the National
Archives under the Freedom of Information Act.

To see the full set, visit the National Archives' Flickr page.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 2:01 PM GMT

9/11 anniversary: Unseen emails reveal White House shock as terrorist attacks
unfolded;
The building was evacuated, with the Vice President and key advisors being moved
to the nuclear bunker beneath the building

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 727 words


"Turn on CNN," That was the three-word email sent by a White House aide to his
colleagues minutes after the first plane hit New York's World Trade Center on 11
September 2001.

The stunned messages sent and received by Presidential assistants on the day
have been released to the New York Times for the first time, showing the shock
and fear as news came through of the four hijacked planes crashing one by one.

It was business as usual at the start of the day, with staff reading morning
news reports, arranging meetings and interviews.

But after the first plane hit the World Trade Center's North Tower at 8.46am
local time, the tone quickly changed.

"Turn on CNN," wrote Tucker Eskew, the director of the White House media affairs
office, in an email to his three colleagues as images of the burning skyscraper
started being broadcast 10 minutes later.

Brief emails started announcing the cancellation of scheduled meetings and calls
as staff, with the President and defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld engaged,
attempted to form a response.

Read more: Man charged over 9/11 memorial bomb plotRainbow over World Trade
Center on eve of anniversaryPhotos show George Bush in White House on 9/11

"Precedent for Coordinated National Emergency Response," confirmed Jay
Lefkowitz, a White House lawyer, at 9.51am.

Planes had already hit both towers of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon,
and the order had been given to evacuate the White House and US Capitol five
minutes before.

Some of the assistants returned to the building, while others were relocated to
a makeshift headquarters in Washington or the White House bunker, which was the
heart of operations.

As news spread that government buildings were being targeted after the Pentagon,
messages flooded in from concerned friends and family.

The sister of Clay Johnson, the President's friend and aide, wrote at 12.13pm:
"Are you safe? Hard to fathom what's going on today. Hope you and [sic] safe and
sound."

He later replied saying he had been in the bunker all afternoon, describing the
experience as "unbelievable".

At 6pm, as Mr Bush was finally returning to the White House and writers were
preparing the speech that launched America's "war against terror", staff tried
to comfort each other.

Stuart Bowen, the deputy White House staff secretary, sent an email entitled
"verses" containing psalms, proverbs and verses from the New Testament.

Two hours later, the President addressed the nation.

"America and our friends and allies join with all those who want peace and
security in the world, and we stand together to win the war against terrorism,"
he said.

Out of the 362 emails processed by the George W. Bush Presidential Library and
Museum, only a handful were released in full, with the bulk being redacted or
withheld because of legal exceptions, including privacy and national security.

The library's documents, released under the US Freedom of Information Act,
listed "emails and fact sheets regarding the President's scheduled events for
September 11, 2001, emails expressing reactions to the 9/11 terrorist attacks,
schedules and speech drafts for upcoming events for the President and Mrs Bush,
press releases, news articles and emails related to administrative or routine
office functions" among the records.

The institution had previously released President Bush's planned itinerary for
9/11, which was due to be a busy but normal day for the leader.

His day had started at 7.50am with an intelligence briefing, followed by a
national security meeting that went to plan, before Mr Bush set off to visit a
school in Sarasota, Florida. In pictures: 9/11 Memorial Museum

But minutes after he arrived at Emma E. Brooker Elementary School, he was
intercepted by chief adviser Karl Rove, who relayed the news from New York.
When the second plane crashed, he was reading a book to children.

The rest of the fateful day had been set to include a meeting with Catholics and
leaders of the Muslim community at the White House, as well as a Congressional
barbecue, but the schedule was scrapped as the President was flown in circles on
Air Force One and government buildings were evacuated.

Fourteen years later, 9/11 is being commemorated across America today, with
memorials focusing on the crash sites in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

Almost 3,000 people died, including more than 2,700 in the World Trade Center.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 10:48 PM GMT

United Airlines flight in Germany is ordered to land shortly after take-off
after a bomb threat is made on the 14th anniversary of 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and BELINDA ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 615 words



     ·    The jet returned safely to Frankfurt Airport on Friday police said
     ·    Nobody was detained in the incident but an investigation is ongoing
     ·    Police took the threat seriously as it is the 14th anniversary of the
          9/11
     ·    No passengers or crew were hurt after the the bomb threat in Frankfurt


A United Airlines flight from Frankfurt to San Francisco was ordered back
shortly after takeoff because of a bomb threat, according to German authorities.

The federal police said that the jet returned safely to Frankfurt Airport on
Friday and all luggage and people on board were searched but nothing was found.

Nobody was detained in the incident.

Scroll down for video

Federal police spokesman Christian Altenhofen said that the airline took every
precaution because the threat specifically named Flight 902. The threat was
allegedly sent by email, ABC reports.

And, because of the date - the 14th anniversary of the September 11 terror
attacks - the threat was taken seriously.

He added: 'Police received a threat notice warning of a bomb attack. We ordered
the plane back to Frankfurt, where it landed safely.'

'It was a very specific threat and you have to keep in mind the date,' he said,
referring to the 14th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks. It made us
take the threat seriously.'

A United Spokesman told Daily Mail online: 'United flight 902 returned to
Frankfurt shortly after take-off today at the direction of the German
authorities.

'The plane landed safely at 3:39 p.m. local time.

'The safety and security of our customers and employees is paramount. The flight
was subsequently canceled as the crew exceeded their legally permitted duty
hours.

'Our customer service team at Frankfurt is providing assistance to customers and
is making arrangements for them to complete their journeys.

Rob Tobias, a passenger aboard Flight 902, said the captain announced about 15
minutes into the flight that it was turning around because of security concerns,
ABC reports.

In a message via Twitter he tweeted: 'Everyone calm and Frankfurt police and
fire professional.'

On the ground, 'all passengers and their luggage screened and swabbed for
explosives. Also frisked. Passports also closely checked.'

Passenger, Yazan Malkosh, @malkosh tweeted he was stunned to see 'so many
emergency vehicles.'

He then tweeted: 'Never seen something like this manual manifest and digital
passport control.'

According to the airline, the aircraft was a Boeing 747-400. There were 333
passengers on board and 18 crew members.

Firefighters stood guard outside the plane and lined up next to it as frightened
passengers disembarked from the aircraft and walked towards a waiting bus.

They were then transported to a 'secure area' away from the plane, inside the
terminal.

The flight was canceled by the airline and has been rescheduled for Saturday.

United Airlines reported on their website that the plane was cancelled due to
'security disruptions.'

The bomb threat came on the 14th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks.

Hundreds of survivors, first responders and victims' family members gathered at
the the World Trade Center memorial in New York.

They came for an annual ceremony to read the names of those who perished at
Ground Zero.

Mayors of New York, Rudy Giuliani, Michael Bloomberg and Mayor Bill de Blasio
also attended the ceremony at the World Trade Center site.

The city observed a moment of silence at 8:46 am - the moment the first plane
struck the north tower on that sunny September day 14 years ago.

Meanwhile, in Washington, President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama
paused on the South Lawn of the White House as they observed a moment of silence
to mark the 14th anniversary of the terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 5:16 PM GMT

Stunning rainbow emerges from the World Trade Center on the eve of the 14th
anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: REGINA F. GRAHAM FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words



     ·    Photos show a rainbow appearing to originate from the World Trade
          Center on Thursday - one day before the anniversary of the 9/11 terror
          attacks
     ·    Ben Sturner spotted the rainbow from his apartment in Long Island
          City, Queens Thursday morning and shared images to social media
     ·    From certain vantage points, the rainbow appeared to cover Manhattan
          in its entirety


On the eve of the 14th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks, stunning
photos show a rainbow appearing to originate from the World Trade Center in New
York City on Thursday.

Ben Sturner, the CEO of sports marketing company Leverage Agency, has an
unobstructed view of the Manhattan skyline including the World Trade Center,
from across the East River.

On Thursday morning, Sturner stepped outside of his apartment in Long Island
City, Queens and onto the terrace to check the weather as part of his daily
routine.

The sight that he saw while standing outside just after 7:00am was nothing short
of magical and stunning.

Scroll down for video

'I see this rainbow, and it's coming from the World Trade Center and it's the
most gorgeous rainbow I've ever seen,' Sturner told WNBC.

'I took out my phone and started snapping photos.'

Sturner decided to share the captivating images to social media immediately and
has since received dozens of responses from people noting the timing of the
rainbow.

From certain vantage points, the rainbow appeared to cover Manhattan in its
entirety.

In addition, a double rainbow was also seen by some people across the city.

Friday marks 14 years since the 9/11 terror attacks that left 2,977 people dead
at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., the World Trade Center in New York and
Shanksville, Pennsylvania where the United Airlines Flight 93 crashed after
passengers aboard seized control of the plane from the hijackers.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 2:51 PM GMT

'Today is Pearl Harbor': Never-before-seen 9/11 emails capture White House staff
reaction to the horror of the terror attacks

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words



     ·    The emails were obtain through an open-records request by The New York
          Times
     ·    One received by Mary Matalin, the counselor to Vice President Dick
          Cheney, said: 'Today is Pearl Harbor'
     ·    Joshua B. Bolten, a deputy chief of staff, received an email from a
          colleague that read: 'Strength to You'
     ·    T he George W. Bush Presidential Library refused to release many of
          the emails under law, The Times reported
     ·    In July photos from inside the White House on 9/11 were released by
          the National Archives following a FOIA request
     ·    One showed Dick Cheney with his feet on his desk watching footage of
          the planes going into the Twin Towers


A cache of never-before-seen emails sent and received from within the White
House on September 11, 2001, has shed new light on how the country's leaders and
their staff first reacted to the horror of the terror attacks.

On the eve of the 14th anniversary of 9/11, the emails were released by the
George W. Bush Presidential Library to The New York Times  through an
open-records request.

The release of the emails comes just weeks after never-before-seen images of
then-Vice President Dick Cheney's reaction to the attacks were also made public
following a Freedom of Information request.

With then-President Bush away on an education trip in Florida at the time of the
attacks, the email exchanges between White House staff were typical that
morning, discussing meetings and the news of the day.

However, at 8:56 a.m., just after a plane crashed into one of the Twin Towers at
the World Trade Center at 8.46 a.m., the first change in tone came from Tucker
Eskew, director of the White House media affairs office, who emailed three
colleagues saying: 'Turn on CNN.'

Suddenly two meetings were cancelled.

At 9.20 a.m., Mary Matalin, the counselor to Vice President Dick Cheney, was
sent an email from political writer David Horowitz saying: 'Today is Pearl
Harbor.'

Scroll down for video

Minutes later, Joshua B. Bolten, a deputy chief of staff, receives an email from
a colleague that read: 'Strength to You.'

At 9.51 a.m., Bolten received an email from Jay Lefkowitz, a White House lawyer,
that said: 'Precedent for Coordinated National Emergency Response.'

In the hours that followed, staff were inundated with messages of concern from
friends.

During 9/11, Bush spent most of the day flying to different bases on AIr Force
One, out of fear for his security.

He then landed in Washington D.C. and addressed the nation from the Oval Office.

At 6.23 p.m., before the speech, Karen Hughes, the president's counselor,
received an email titled 'Verses' from Stuart Bowen, the deputy White House
staff secretary, who includes psalms, proverbs and verses from Isaiah, Job and
Matthew.

At 7:59 p.m., following the speech, Hughes receives another email from Bowen
that said: 'the speech was extraordinarily good. Even more impressive is that
you wrote it under unprecedented constraints, given the time and nightmarish
circumstances involved.'

In publishing the small collection of emails - not all of which appear here -
The Times noted that they did not receive all of correspondence from that day,
with the George W. Bush Presidential Library withholding many, 'citing
exceptions under the law, like national security'.

The images of Cheney and other officials' reactions to 9/11 - released in July -
were captured by Cheny's staff photographer, according to PBS .

In one photo, rests his feet on his desk as he watches a live TV news report of
the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

In another, he sits beside his wife after they were both frog-marched by Secret
Service agents to a secure basement in the White House.

And in a later shot, he takes his glasses off and clasps his hands together
before he and his spouse are flown to an undisclosed location.

They also show the horror felt by other senior government officials, including
then-President George Bush and his wife Laura, National Security Adviser
Condoleezza Rice, CIA Director George Tenet, Cheney's top lawyer, David
Addington, and Chief of Staff Andrew Card.

In the photos, Bush looks tense and even bites his lip as he confers with
officials in the President's Emergency Operations Center (PEOC), a highly-secure
underground bunker below the White House's East Wing that can withstand nuclear
hits and other devastating attacks.

The then-President would shortly address the nation about the day's atrocities,
which were aired live on TV screens across the world.

The same evening, Cheney and his wife, Lynne, were flown via Marine Two to a
secret destination, revealed in the photos to be Camp David. They were later
moved to other undisclosed sites as thousands of rescue workers descended on the
wreckage of the WTC towers.

On the day of the attacks, Cheney, now 74, was in charge at the White House,
with Bush visiting a school in Sarasota, Florida, at the time.

Cheney has since defended the harsh interrogation techniques used by the CIA in
the wake of the plane attacks, which included the waterboarding of 9/11
mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed a total of 183 times, declaring that he 'would
do it again in a minute'.

The photos were released by the National Archives following a FOIA request by
FRONTLINE filmmaker Colette Neirouz Hanna.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 4:07 PM GMT

President Obama and victims' families lead sombre memorial services to mark
anniversary of 9/11 terror attacks;
Families gathered at Ground Zero in New York, the Pentagon and the Flight 93
National Memorial in Pennsylvania for mark the 14th anniversary of the attacks

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


President Obama and the families of people killed in the September 11 terror
attacks led sombre memorial services to mark the 14th anniversary of the
tragedy.

Hundreds of relatives gathered at Ground Zero in New York for a moment of
silence and a reading of the names of the victims.

The service was the centrepiece of events across the US to remember those who
died when hijacked planes crashed into the World Trade Centre's twin towers, the
Pentagon and a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama stepped out of the White House at
8.46am - when the first plane hit the north tower - to observe a moment of
silence.

The president said on his official Twitter account: "14 years after the
terrorist attacks of 9/11, we honor those we lost. We salute all who serve to
keep us safe. We stand as strong as ever."

Friends and relatives gather to remember 9/11 victims at Ground Zero memorial
site

Relatives of the 40 passengers and crew members who died aboard United Airlines
Flight 93 gathered at the newly dedicated Flight 93 National Memorial in
Shanksville.

The memorial was marking the anniversary along with the completion of its
visitor centre, which opened to the public yesterday.

At the Pentagon, defence secretary Ash Carter and other officials joined
remembrances for victims' relatives and Pentagon employees.

Tom Acquaviva, 81, who lost his son Paul, a systems analyst who died in the
World Trade Centre's north tower said he would always mark the anniversary at
Ground Zero.

He said: "We come every year. The crowds get smaller, but we want to be here. As
long as I'm breathing, I'll be here."

Nereida Valle, who lost her daughter, Nereida De Jesus, "It's the same as if it
was yesterday. I feel her every day."

The first plane slammed into the North tower at 8:46 a.m, followed by a second
plane hitting the South tower at 9:03 a.m.

Within two hours, both towers had collapsed, engulfing lower Manhattan in acrid
dust and smoke and debris that burned for days.

A total of 2,977 victims were killed in the four incidents - along with 19
hijackers.

9/11 Memorial

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 9:26 AM GMT

Man charged with planning 9/11 pressure-cooker bomb attack on anniversary of
terror attacks;
Joshua Ryne Goldberg, 20, allegedly told an informant online to fill the device
with nails, metal and other items dipped in rat poison

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words


A man has been arrested and accused of plotting a bomb attack at a 9/11 memorial
service.

Joshua Ryne Goldberg allegedly planned to detonate the pressure-cooker device at
a memorial in Kansas City, Missouri.

The 20-year-old was arrested on charges of distributing information relating to
explosives, destructive devices and weapons of mass destruction, police said.

His arrest came a day before the 14th anniversary of the attacks.

If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison, the
department said.

The criminal complaint said Goldberg distributed information to an informant on
how to manufacture a bomb and instructed the informant to make a pressure-cooker
bomb and fill it with nails, metal and other items dipped in rat poison.

When the informant claimed to live near Kansas City, Goldberg instructed the
informant to place the bomb at an upcoming memorial in Kansas City that was
commemorating 9/11, the complaint said.

The complaint details numerous conversations from the Twitter account of someone
using the names AusWitness and AusSecret, who presented himself as a Muslim
living in Australia who supported the Islamic State militant group.

Leaked NYPD helicopter video shows full horror of 9/11 attacks

However, the complaint also says that Goldberg, who was using his mother's
computer in Orange Park near Jacksonville, was responsible for Internet hoaxes
and had taken over the identities of other people online.

A witness from Australia had identified Goldberg as an "online troll," who had
used numerous identities, the complaint said.

FBI investigators said a computer owned by Goldberg's mother had the IP address
of the computer associated with the email and Twitter accounts through which the
conversations with the informant took place.

In one conversation recounted in the complaint, the FBI informant, referring to
the possibility of a Jihadi attack, said: "We could probably figure something
out," adding that he had "learned a lot" from a Syrian.

The AusWitness account replied: "That sounds good. What do you have in mind? Do
you have any bombs already?"

Later, the AusSecret Twitter account sent guidelines on how to make bombs and
suggested that the informant bomb Kansas City since he was near there.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 11, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

I.S. 'AT CHUNNEL';
Fears terrorist in Calais camp plans to attack UK

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 147 words


AN IS killer who wants to carry out terror attacks in Britain is hiding among
migrants in Calais, it was claimed yesterday.

Reports in France say the unnamed man travelled there from Syria last month.

They say he is likely to be "to among the 4,000 migrants in The Jungle, the
sprawling illegal settlement near the entrance to the Channel Tunnel.

Few in the camp - a base for hundreds who have attempted to storm the tunnel
this summer - have identity papers as they prepare to get into Britain.

The Voix du Nord newspaper said the man is on the French terror watch list,
Index S. It added: "His intention is to reach Britain to commit terrorist
attacks."

French MP Yves Nicolin last week said everything should be done to prevent
"disguised terrorists" from travelling freely.

Detectives are known to have infiltrated migrant communities in France in a bid
to monitor suspected radicals.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terrorist . . and Calais camp

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 4:15 PM GMT

New app could alert travellers about terror attacks;
Technology used to warn travellers about approaching tsunami could be used to
keep them safe from terrorists

BYLINE: By Chris Leadbeater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


A security system has been launched that aims to keep companies closely
connected to employees who are abroad on business - and give them up-to-date
information if a deteriorating situation places them in harm's way.

The G4S TravelAware is a smartphone application that can be downloaded onto a
traveller's handset, allowing for two-way communication between the user and
their base office - with managers at home able to keep watch for potentially
dangerous developments in the relevant location, and deliver a quick warning if
the staff member needs to seek immediate sanctuary. G4S says that it can provide
instant information, based on ground intelligence, from security teams in over
100 countries across the globe.

While it is unclear whether the app would enhance a traveller's safety in a
destination where a discernible risk has already been identified by the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office and suitable caution advised, G4S claims that its alerts
can make a real difference in a quickly changing scenario.

· Mapped: Terror threat around the world

The app has been created in partnership with Swedish firm Global Warning System
- whose technology demonstrated its effectiveness in March 2011, when
subscribers to an earlier app received warnings of the tsunami which was about
to strike Japan, 47 minutes before the wave arrived on the east coast of the
country.

For now, the TravelAware will only be of concern to companies with operations
that take their employees into warzones or unstable states - but it could have
future ramifications for more mainstream trips, with insurance firms sure to be
interested in the app's efficacy.

· Top 10: unusual holiday destinations where the terror risk is low

"This product will completely change the way companies approach the safety of
their travelling employees," says Anne Tiedemann of G4S Risk Consulting.

"The unique technology brings location-specific incident alerts to travellers in
real time, so employees are safeguarded wherever they are - and, should the
worst happen, employers have the information to get their employees to safety."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 2:38 PM GMT

9/11 terror attacks were not plotted in Afghanistan by al-Qaeda, claims Karzai;

On anniversary of New York terror attacks, former Afghan president says he has
not seen "any report that would indicate that Al-Qaeda is operating in
Afghanistan"

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


Hamid Karzai, the former Afghan president, has called al-Qaeda a "myth" and
described any link between Afghanistan and the 9/11 terror attacks a western
conspiracy.

His comments came on the 14th anniversary of the a wave of plane hijackings
which killed almost 3000 people across America.

"I have not seen them and I've not had any report about them, any report that
would indicate that Al-Qaeda is operating in Afghanistan," said the former
president in an interview with Al Jazeera English. Mr Karzai left office last
year after more than a decade in power.

"It is for me a myth... For us, they don't exist."

Al-Qaeda have repeatedly claimed responsibility for the 9/11 attacks, which were
mostly thought to have been planned from Afghanistan, where the extremist group
had relocated from Sudan during the 1990s.

Relatives of those who died are due to hold commemorations in New York,
Pennsylvania and outside Washington today.

The assault on these cities - the deadliest attack on American soil in the
country's modern history - prompted the US-led war with Afghanistan. More than
16,000 civilians were killed in that conflict.

Mr Karzai said on Thursday that: "Afghanistan was as much a victim of terrorism
as was America, as were the people who were killed in the September 11th
terrorist attacks."

Asked whether he believed the attacks had been planned from the country he would
go on to rule, he said: "That is what I have heard from our Western friends.
That's what the Western media says. There is no doubt that an operation, a
terrorist operation was conducted in New York and in Washington."

Bin Laden's time in Afghanistan is well documented. The former Al-Qaeda leader
arrived there in 1996, living first in Jalalabad and then settling in Kandahar,
the spiritual and administrative headquarters of the Taliban.

Mr Karzai was Washington's favoured presidential candidate when the Taliban fell
in 2001, but the relationship quickly soured. By his final year in office, the
former leader was said to keep a list of complex bombings across the country
that he suspects were planned by Americans, although the officials also admit
they have no firm evidence of a US role.

Relations with neighbouring Pakistan were also strained, and Mr Karzai used
Thursday's interview to claim Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)
fighters in Afghanistan are "definitely" members of "Pakistani militias".

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2015 Friday 1:34 PM GMT

Leona Lewis interview: 'My favourite city? Berlin - I love the nightlife';
Travelling Life: Leona Lewis, the singer, recalls partying in Berlin's most
exclusive nightclub and escaping Nigeria following a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Interview by Roz Lewis

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 846 words


How often do you travel?

I'm on a plane around four times a month. I'm based in Los Angeles at the
moment, so I travel between London and the US regularly. I've also been
travelling a great deal around the States. I've been to Ohio, Minneapolis, New
York, and San Francisco, as well as Palm Springs, California .

What do you need for a perfect holiday?

The sun, a beach and time to relax.

Your earliest memory of travelling abroad?

Karachi in Pakistan from the age of about seven to my early teens. My mum and
dad sourced fabrics from there for their business, so we would go there for
about a week to 10 days every couple of months. They also took us to New York
when they started buying fabrics, there, so I was a well-travelled child. My mum
is from Wales and we used to spend weekends with her family in Barry Island,
too. She always wanted us to see as many places outside of London as possible.

The most remote place you've been?

A turtle sanctuary on the coast of Mexico I visited about three years ago. I
remember driving for hours along dirt roads, through small villages before we
arrived at the place. I was there for just over a week, helping out at the
sanctuary, and we also went horse riding and saw a few other animals in the
area, including zebra, antelope and crocodiles.

Have you ever been on safari?

No, but I'd love to do a safari break in South Africa . Animals are a huge
passion of mine and I have my own animal sanctuary in Brentwood, Essex. I would
love to work at an elephant sanctuary in Thailand or Bali. I have been to a
horse sanctuary called Cleveland Amory Black Beauty Ranch in Texas a few years
ago, which was very interesting.

· 10 of the best luxury African safaris

Your most relaxing destination?

Langkawi, off the coast of Malaysia. I stayed in a beach hut on a stunning
island there.

Best holiday ever?

Turks and Caicos. I stayed at an amazing resort called Amanyara for 10 days. The
people were so friendly and the beaches were amazing. I also went diving and saw
some incredible marine life.

Favourite hotel?

Amanyara. It has a minimalist style and a homely feel. It was very comfortable,
with really fresh food.

Favourite city?

Berlin . My boyfriend is German, so I've been there many times. It is a very
arty city with a lot of interesting cafés that cater to vegetarians like me. I
love the nightlife, too - the club Berghain has one of the best sound systems in
the world. We tend to stay with friends when we're in Berlin, or the Das Stue
hotel, which is a short walk from Berlin Zoo.

· The best places for nightlife in Berlin

Best city for music lovers?

Nashville. I visited the city for a few weeks about three years ago. I just
wanted to spend some time there, being around amazing writers. The scene is
quite country music-based, but it had a really good vibe and I wrote a couple of
songs there that are on my third album.

Most memorable place you've performed?

Sardinia on a stage set against the backdrop of the ocean. It was so beautiful.
I also got to perform in a huge classical concert in Malta.

Favourite restaurant?

Sabai, a Thai restaurant in Brighton. It is a family-run place - their coconut
rice is the best thing I've ever tasted.

Favourite placefor a drink?

The Spare Room at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel in Los Angeles. It has a little
bowling alley and is a fun place to meet friends.

Best city for nightlife?

Apart from Berlin, New York. In Los Angeles, all the venues close so early, but
in New York it is the opposite.

Worst travel experience?

I was booked to perform for Goodluck Jonathan [former president of Nigeria] on
the anniversary of Nigeria's independence in 2010, but it was cancelled because
of a terrorist attack. It was really difficult to get out of the country because
the airport was full of people wanting to get away.

Favourite airline?

British Airways. Its new aircraft seem quieter and it is trying to cut down on
carbon emissions. I usually fly business class.

Best beauty tip for travelling?

Keep hydrated. I don't eat much on long-haul flights. I think your body copes
better.

Where next?

In the next few weeks I'll be travelling to New York, London, and then Florence,
where I've never been. And I hope to visit South Africa soon, where I want to
try shark cage diving.

Leona Lewis's new album, I Am, is out now.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    September 12, 2015 Saturday 9:20 AM GMT

Relatives' tribute to victims of 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: By AP Reporter

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 117 words


Victims' relatives have been marking the 14th anniversary of the September 11
attacks in a subdued gathering at Ground Zero in New York with a moment of
silence and sombre reading of names.

Hundreds of relatives gathered, carrying photos emblazoned with the names of
their loved ones as they remembered the day when hijacked planes hit the World
Trade Center's twin towers, the Pentagon and a field near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania.

Meanwhile, a Florida man has been charged with trying to help plan an attack on
an upcoming 9/11 memorial in the US.

Joshua Ryne Goldberg (20) was arrested and charged with distributing information
relating to explosives, destructive devices and weapons of mass destruction.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 12, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

9/11 RAINBOW OF REMEMBRANCE;
US marks 14yrs since terrorist attack

BYLINE: ANNA DUBUIS ; PAT FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 381 words


A BEAUTIFUL rainbow appeared over New York on the eve of the 9/11 anniversary,
with the spectacle appearing to originate from the site of the World Trade
Center.

Images of the phenomenon were shared online as people remembered the lives that
were lost 14 years ago yesterday.

Long Island resident Ben Sturner took a series of photos of the rainbow and
posted them on Twitter.

He told NBC 4: "I see this rainbow and it's coming from the World Trade Center
and it's the most gorgeous rainbow I've ever seen.

"You never know when you see something that could be moving. It gives me the
chills."

One woman tweeted: "Best birthday present in 14 years. This picture of hope and
renewal I feel coursing through me and out my fingertips. Thank you."

Another woman wrote: "Let this rainbow be a sign of peace, strength and
forgiveness.

"They are all angels, resting in peace."

One woman posted: "I'm on the bus and nearly cried when I saw this. Full body
goosebumps."

An anniversary ceremony took place yesterday at Ground Zero where the names of
the nearly 3,000 people killed in 9/11 were read out.

A 20-year-old in Kansas City, Missouri, was yesterday arrested accused of
plotting a bomb attack at a 9/11 memorial service.

Meanwhile, an investment bank which tragically lost 66 employees in the terror
attack has since paid for the college education of 54 children of the victims.

There were 83 employees in the offices of Sandler O'Neill & Partners on the
104th floor of the South Tower when terrorists crashed a plane into it. The
bank's victims left 76 children behind - many of whom were young at the time and
barely knew their mums and dads.

After the tragedy, the firm set up the Sandler O'Neill Foundation to pay for the
college education of all the youngsters.

One of the founders Andy Armstrong, said: "We wanted the families of the lost to
know we would always remember and would never sweep this under the rug.

"People donated many millions of dollars to set up the foundation."

He said "you wouldn't believe" the letters that some of the children wrote to
the foundation in appreciation.

Mr Armstrong added: "I think they particularly appreciate us remembering their
mum or dad this way."

news@irishmirror.ie

Let it be a sign of peace strength and forgiveness. They are all angels TWITTER
POST yesterday

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEARTFELT Barack and Michelle Obama outside the White HouseSAD MEMORIES
Survivor Adrian Pierce comfortedLOSS One of the victim's children wears a
poignant jumper

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 12, 2015 Saturday 6:09 PM GMT

9/11 Survivor Tree seeds to inspire resilience in areas visited by tragedy;
Seedlings grown from the tree that survived the World Trade Center terrorist
attacks will be shipped to Sandy Hook, Joplin and Spain

BYLINE: Joanna Walters

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 613 words


Seedlings grown from a tree that survived being crushed in the terrorist attacks
at the World Trade Center will be sent to the people of Sandy Hook, Connecticut,
and Joplin, Missouri, to mark recent catastrophes in those places and - in the
first international donation of offspring from the tree - to the people of
Spain, it was announced on Saturday.

The resilient tree was dubbed the Survivor Tree after it was pulled severely
damaged from the wreckage Ground Zero in New York when it was destroyed by
hijacked jets flown into the buildings on September 11, 2001, killing almost
3,000 people.

The day after the 14th anniversary of the tragedy was marked in Lower Manhattan
on Friday, leaders of the National September 11th Memorial and Museum that now
occupies the site announced the recipients of the 2015 seedlings from the tree.

This year one tree will be presented to Sandy Hook, Connecticut, where a mass
shooting at the elementary school in December 2012 claimed the lives of 20
children and six adults.

Another will also make its way to Joplin, Missouri, where 158 people were killed
and more than 1,000 injured in 2011 by the most devastating tornado to hit the
region for decades.

And a third sapling is being given to the people of Spain's capital Madrid to
mark the deadly series of coordinated terrorist bombings of the city's commuter
train system in 2004 that killed 190 and wounded 1,800.

The practice began in 2013 to pick communities each year that have endured
tragedy in recent times and dispatch seedlings nurtured from the commemorative
tree to be planted and cared for there.

This is the first time that seedlings from the tree have been donated as an
international gift - and the offering to Spain will actually be planted outside
the Spanish embassy in Washington, DC.

The extraordinary tree is an ordinary example of an ornamental callery pear
tree, which bursts out into white blossom every spring and is a common sight in
New York and many cities, known for its tall, straight growth and hardiness.

"The Survivor Tree reminds us of our shared strength in the face of unimaginable
tragedy. We hope these trees will serve as an inspiration to these communities
and others who have suffered hardships and are working to recover," said Joe
Daniels, president of the 9/11 memorial.

There were numerous such pear trees around the World Trade Center site in 2001.
But the tree in question was very close to the twin towers and was buried in the
rubble when the towers collapsed.

Rescue workers and contractors clearing mountains of toxic debris known as "the
pile" came across leaves protruding from the wreckage and pulled out the tree,
which had suffered severe damage to its roots, branches and trunk.

It was thought to have almost no chance of survival, but was extracted and taken
to a plant nursery in the Bronx, where it gradually sprouted fresh growth and
was able to return to Lower Manhattan.

The tree now stands close to the 9/11 museum, the twin reflecting pools created
as a memorial on the footprints of where the twin towers stood, and beneath One
World Trade Center that is the flagship new skyscraper at the site.

Seedlings are cultivated from seeds produced by the tree by high-schoolers in
Queens, overseen by experts. Trees have previously been donated to communities
including the Far Rockaways in Queens to mark the destruction wreaked by
Superstorm Sandy; Prescott, Arizona, to commemorate the 19 firefighters of the
Granite Mountain Hotshots killed in a wildfire; and Boston, in honor of those
killed and injured when the marathon was bombed in 2013.

And on September 10, the tree's seedlings were donated to 28 fire houses spread
across Long Island.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

Drone attack 'was defending Iraq';
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Graeme Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 114 words


The British Ambassador to the UN has said that an RAF drone attack which killed
two British Isis fighters in Syria was lawful as part of a "self-defence of
Iraq".

The letter to the UN Security Council added to David Cameron's assertion that
the attack in Raqqa was protecting the UK against terrorist plots. Matthew
Rycroft's letter, dated 7 September, backed the Prime Minister's justification,
but added: "ISIL is engaged in an ongoing armed attack against Iraq, and
therefore action against ISIL in Syria is lawful in the collective self-defence
of Iraq".

The drone strike on 21 August killed Cardiff-born Reyaad Khan, 21, Ruhul Amin,
26, from Aberdeen and a third unnamed Isis fighter.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    September 12, 2015 Saturday 5:29 AM GMT

9/11 terror attack victims remembered as Tribute in Light beams into New York
sky;
Families gathered at Ground Zero in New York to mark the 14th anniversary of the
attacks

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Beaming bright and proud over New York, two blue lights mark where the Twin
Towers once stood.

Every year since the US terror attacks which claimed 2,977 lives in total,
'Tribute in Light' has brightly beamed into the sky every.

The blue beams reach four miles into the sky making their striking mark on the
Manhattan skyline.

Hundreds of relatives gathered at Ground Zero in New York for a moment of
silence and a reading of the names of the victims.

The service was the centrepiece of events across the US to remember those who
died when hijacked planes crashed into the World Trade Centre's twin towers, the
Pentagon and a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama stepped out of the White House at
8.46am - when the first plane hit the north tower - to observe a moment of
silence.

The president said on his official Twitter account: "14 years after the
terrorist attacks of 9/11, we honor those we lost. We salute all who serve to
keep us safe. We stand as strong as ever."

Friends and relatives gather to remember 9/11 victims at Ground Zero memorial
site

Relatives of the 40 passengers and crew members who died aboard United Airlines
Flight 93 gathered at the newly dedicated Flight 93 National Memorial in
Shanksville.

The memorial was marking the anniversary along with the completion of its
visitor centre, which opened to the public yesterday.

At the Pentagon, defence secretary Ash Carter and other officials joined
remembrances for victims' relatives and Pentagon employees.

Tom Acquaviva, 81, who lost his son Paul, a systems analyst who died in the
World Trade Centre's north tower said he would always mark the anniversary at
Ground Zero.

He said: "We come every year. The crowds get smaller, but we want to be here. As
long as I'm breathing, I'll be here."

Nereida Valle, who lost her daughter, Nereida De Jesus, "It's the same as if it
was yesterday. I feel her every day."

The first plane slammed into the North tower at 8:46 a.m, followed by a second
plane hitting the South tower at 9:03 a.m.

Within two hours, both towers had collapsed, engulfing lower Manhattan in acrid
dust and smoke and debris that burned for days.

A total of 2,977 victims were killed in the four incidents - along with 19
hijackers.

9/11 Memorial

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 14, 2015 Monday 10:26 PM GMT

Islamic State jihadis 'may be posing as Syrian refugees';
Lebanese government minister claims as many as 2 per cent - one in 50 - of
refugees could be "radicals" entering Europe hoping to carry out terror attacks

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant could be sending jihadis out of Syria
posing as refugees, a Lebanese government minister has warned.

Education minister Elias Bou Saab suggested that as many as 2 per cent - one in
50 - of the refugees could be "radicals", which he said would be "more than
enough" to cause problems.

Mr Saab spoke to journalists travelling with David Cameron on a visit to Lebanon
and Jordan, during which the Prime Minister highlighted Britain's contribution
of more than £1 billion to support refugee camps for displaced Syrians to stay
in the region.

The minister conceded that he had no firm information on terrorist infiltration
of refugees, but said his "gut feeling" told him it was happening.

Asked if Isil could be sending militants under cover of being refugees, Mr Saab
said: "Yes, they bring some people, the smugglers. They organise groups and send
them out."

Groups were arriving which looked very different from the usual refugees, he
said. "They are all dressed with something unified, uniform, vests," he said.

"I don't have any information. My gut feeling is yes they are facilitating such
an operation. For what reason, I don't know."

Mr Saab said he thought militants could be going to Europe via Turkey and
Greece.

"You may have, let's say, 2 per cent that are radicals," he said. "That is more
than enough.

"We have had that also with our camps here. You find 2 per cent - 3 per cent of
them.

"When the Lebanese army were kidnapped in Lebanon, the people who kidnapped them
came out of the camps. We had them in camps in Lebanon and we were taking care
(of them) and all of a sudden they came out of the camps, they went against the
army, they kidnapped the soldiers and they took them to the mountains."

Mr Saab's comments follow repeated warnings from Ukip leader Nigel Farage that
Isil fighters could enter Europe to carry out attacks, hidden among the mass of
migrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    September 15, 2015 Tuesday 10:05 AM GMT

ITV presenter under investigation for making 'highly insensitive' jokes about
9/11 live on air;
Emma Lee, who hosts Jackpot 24/7, caused outrage among viewers after giggling at
her gags over the terror attack on Flight 93, in which 40 people died on 9/11

BYLINE: By Nicola Agius

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words


An ITV presenter is under investigation for "highly insensitive" jokes about a
9/11 terrorist attack live on air.

Emma Lee's remarks came as she presented Jackpot 24/7 straight after a screening
of film United 93, the story of how 40 people died in an al-Qaeda plane
hijacking.

Seconds into the casino-based show on Saturday night, Emma giggled "Thank you
for coming in for an emergency landing."

Visibly finding the gag amusing, she then added: "Brace yourselves, it's going
to be good.

"We hope you enjoyed the movie there on ITV. Now it's time for you to sit
tight."

Following dozens of complaints from viewers, Jackpot 24/7 has now issued a
public apology and launched an internal investigation.

The statement reads: "Jackpot247 would like to apologise unreservedly for the
comment made during our live broadcast on Saturday evening.

"The presenter hadn't realised the content of the preceding film and apologised
on air as soon as she was made aware. She has asked us to repeat her sincere
regret.

"Jackpot247 takes incidents of this nature very seriously and has instigated new
measures and guidelines to its team to avoid anything similar in the future."

Emma's husband, fellow TV presenter Tim Dixon, later tweeted she was asked to
"back reference" an airplane film and was not aware which one.

He wrote in reply to a viewer on Twitter: "My wife has been instructed not to
comment whilst internal investigations are underway.

"She was told to 'back ref' an aeroplane movie. She had absolutely no idea what
the movie was - and meant no offence. She is absolutely mortified. Warm Regards,
Tim."

In the 2001 terror attack, 33 passengers, five flight attendants and two pilots
were killed when Flight 93 was hijacked by al-Qaeda terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 15, 2015 Tuesday 3:40 AM GMT

Security officials foil terror attack against the POPE amid Islamic State fears

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 505 words


SECURITY officials have foiled a potential terror plot targeting Pope Francis
amid fears Islamic State militants could attack him.

GETTY

Pope Francis could be hit by an Islamic State attack in the US

American authorities have already stopped one "threat" ahead of the Pope's visit
to the US later this month, according to congressman Michael McCaul.

Mr McCaul, head of the House Homeland Security Committee, yesterday warned with
his visit "comes a large security risk".

He said: "We are monitoring very closely threats against the Pope as he comes in
to the United States. We have disrupted one case in particular.

"But as that date approaches, I think we're all very... vigilant to protect him
as he comes into the United States."

Related articles  ISIS assassination plot against Pope Francis - Pontif begs
'please...  Pope Francis warns 'incredibly cruel' ISIS could infiltrate
Europe...

Earlier this year the head of the Vatican police revealed ISIS terrorists - who
have also targeted the Queen - pose a threat to the Pope.

He said: "There are not only the threats of ISIS, but also the risk of action by
individuals, which is more dangerous because it is unpredictable."

Officials from more than 50 agencies met in New York yesterday to discuss
security measures for the visit.

Police commissioner Bill Bratton said it was the "largest security event the
department's had to deal with".

During a training exercise they responded to a series of worst-case scenarios,
including gunmen at train stations and a bomb explosion in Times Square.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio praised the "seamless teamwork between a variety
of security agencies at all levels of government and all the other authorities
involved".

ANALODU·GETTY

He will meet President Barack Obama at the White House

GETTY

His predecessor Pope Benedict with George W. Bush in 2008

The Pope is set to visit the US between 22 September and 27 September, when he
will become the third reigning pontiff to visit the White House.

Pope John Paul II met President Jimmy Carter in October 1979 while Benedict XVI
was welcomed by President George W. Bush in 2008.

Earlier this year President Obama revealed he was "very much looking forward to
welcoming Pope Francis to the United States".

He is also due to address world leaders at the United Nations and celebrate Mass
at Madison Square Garden.

Yesterday the pontiff warned that "incredibly cruel" ISIS militants could be
sneaking into Europe by disguising themselves as refugees.

He admitted Rome was at risk of an attack by the notorious terror group, which
declared itself a caliphate last year.

He warned: "The truth is that just 400 kilometres [250 miles] from Sicily there
is an incredibly cruel terrorist group. So there is a danger of infiltration,
this is true."

Related articles Islamic State wants to kill the Pope, warns Iraq's Vatican
ambassador 'Their only words were - Jesus, help me' Pope speaks out over Islamic
State mass beheading ISIS hiding 20,000 jihadis among refugees, official warns -
and they're heading for Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 15, 2015 Tuesday 12:04 PM GMT

Islamic State jihadis 'may be posing as Syrian refugees';
Lebanese government minister claims as many as 2 per cent - one in 50 - of
refugees could be "radicals" entering Europe hoping to carry out terror attacks

BYLINE: By Press Association

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 290 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant could be sending jihadis out of Syria
posing as refugees, a Lebanese government minister has warned.

Education minister Elias Bou Saab suggested that as many as 2 per cent - one in
50 - of the refugees could be "radicals", which he said would be "more than
enough" to cause problems.

Mr Saab spoke to journalists travelling with David Cameron on a visit to Lebanon
and Jordan, during which the Prime Minister highlighted Britain's contribution
of more than £1 billion to support refugee camps for displaced Syrians to stay
in the region.

The minister conceded that he had no firm information on terrorist infiltration
of refugees, but said his "gut feeling" told him it was happening.

Asked if Isil could be sending militants under cover of being refugees, Mr Saab
said: "Yes, they bring some people, the smugglers. They organise groups and send
them out."

Groups were arriving which looked very different from the usual refugees, he
said. "They are all dressed with something unified, uniform, vests," he said.

"I don't have any information. My gut feeling is yes they are facilitating such
an operation. For what reason, I don't know."

Mr Saab said he thought militants could be going to Europe via Turkey and
Greece.

"You may have, let's say, 2 per cent that are radicals," he said. "That is more
than enough.

"We have had that also with our camps here. You find 2 per cent - 3 per cent of
them.

"When the Lebanese army were kidnapped in Lebanon, the people who kidnapped them
came out of the camps. We had them in camps in Lebanon and we were taking care
(of them) and all of a sudden they came out of the camps, they went against the
army, they kidnapped the soldiers and they took them to the mountains."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

Tanzanian police arrest 26 suspects over assassination, terror attacks

LENGTH: 356 words


Text of report entitled "Police arrest 26 suspects over assassination, terror
attacks, theft of firearms" published by Tanzanian newspaper The Guardian
website on 16 September

Police in Dar es Salaam have reported having arrested 26 people over
assassination of police officers, planned terror attacks and stealing firearms
from various police posts this year.

Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commissioner Suleiman Kova told reporters in
Dar es Salaam on Monday [14 September] that on different occasions they attacked
Kimanzichana and Ikwiriri police posts killing policemen and civilians. The
suspects also managed to escape with firearms, property of the police force, he
said.

"Sub-machine gun TZPL 26686 which was stolen at Kimanzichama on 21 June last
year and TZPL 26076 stolen from Ikwiriri Police Station on 21 January this year
with 23 rounds of ammunition and two magazines were found in Mamdimkongo
village, Mkuranga District, Coast Region," he said.

Commissioner Kova explained that a special task force on an operation also
recovered 27 firearms and arrested 64 suspects, urging the public to collaborate
with the police.

Kova named Ally Uluture, as the master-mind of the theft and the second
in-charge in police attacks. However, he was injured after jumping from a third
floor structure when he tried to escape police interrogation, said Kova.

In another incident, he said the police also arrested 14 suspects of planned
armed robbery.

He said on 28 August this year, the police arrested Yassin Nanda, Elisha Simon
and Emmanuel Dennis with a revolver numbered 58498.

In another operation the police also arrested Elineema Paulo over illegal
possession of a Chinese Gun, Bereta, with seven rounds of ammunition.

Others were Issa Mohamed, Khalid Muhidin, Thabit Khalfan, Seleman Abdallah,
Michael Anthony and Thabit Muhidin. All were arrested in Kawe after breaking
into Andy Appleton's home. They had two guns and 16 rounds of ammunition.

Kova said police operation in Mbagala and Mkuranga arrested Hamis Ramadhani and
Abubakari Amiri over illegal possession of a gun.

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 16 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 7:48 PM GMT

German police kill known Islamic terrorist in western Berlin after he attacked
and seriously injured female officer with a knife

BYLINE: IMOGEN CALDERWOOD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 321 words



     ·    Security officials named attacker as Iraqi national Rafik Mohamad
          Yousef
     ·    Female officer was seriously wounded in attack, remains in intensive
          care
     ·    Officers were called to Spandau, in Berlin, as he wielded knife in the
          street
     ·    Yousef convicted of belonging to al-Qaeda-linked group seven years ago


German police have shot and killed a known Islamic extremist, after he went on a
rampage with a knife on the streets of Berlin.

The attacker, named by security officials as Rafik Mohamad Yousef, threatened
passers-by and seriously injured a female officer with the weapon.

Police officers were called to Spandau, in western Berlin, in response to
reports that a man was wielding a knife in the street.

The 41-year-old man attacked the female officer with the weapon before another
officer shot and killed him.

Yousef, an Iraqi national, was convicted of belonging to an al-Qaeda-linked
terror group seven years ago, according to officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they weren't authorised to release the man's name.

Frank Henkel, the interior minister for the state of Berlin, said the reasons
for the attack were still unclear.

'There are indications that this wasn't a planned act,' said Henkel in a
statement.

But he added that due to the man's history, 'a religious motive can't be
excluded'.

Yousef was arrested in December 2004 after German officials suspected him and
two others of being part of a plot by the Ansar al-Islam group to attack former
Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi during a visit to Berlin.

German authorities wanted to deport him to Iraq after his release in 2013 but
were unable to do so because he could have faced the death penalty in connection
with the attempted assassination, Henkel said.

Yousef was ordered to wear an electronic tag, which he removed on Thursday
morning.

Police spokesman Stefan Redlich said the injured officer was in a stable
condition, but remained in intensive care.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 4:09 AM GMT

King's Cross train crash: Passengers feared terrorist attack after train crashed
into buffers;
Passengers heard a 'huge bang' andwere 'thrown around' the train carriage

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: TRANSPORT

LENGTH: 488 words


Passengers feared a terrorist attack at King's Cross station today when their
train crashed into a buffer and sent them "flying" in the carriages.

Four people were taken to hospital after the incident which caused a "huge bang"
at one of London's busiest stations, with a fifth patient treated at the scene.

The train from Cambridge failed to slow down as it pulled into the station just
before 12.30pm and ploughed into the buffer.

Matthew Blakemore, who was in the front carriage, said people were thrown
backwards by a large impact, as most were already standing up and preparing to
get off.

"We were all panicking, we didn't know if it was a terrorist attack," h

e told the Standard.

In a #train#crash today at #kingscross at 12.20 was in the front carriage. Huge
bang and everyone thrown around. pic.twitter.com/qart8SgKxa

- Matthew Blakemore (@TweetBlakemore) September 17, 2015

"The first thing you think is you're in London and it could be an attack of some
kind."

Hesaid one woman looked to be badly injured after being knocked to the floor
right in front of him andwas left crying in pain after hurting her shoulder.

"It was a big impact, the train was still going reasonably fast and it just
didn't stop," he added.

"It was a big shudder, it literally threw everyone backwards and knocked one
woman on to the floor in front of me. It was very scary."

Mr Blakemore, 27, runs a tech startup and was visiting central London from his
home in Hatfield for a meeting. He fell onto a chair and was not injured.

He said the driver was still sitting "with his head in his hands" when he got
off the train and went to photograph the damage.

King's Cross station

The London Ambulance Service treated five patients and all but one were taken to
nearby University College Hospital. None of thier injuries were believed to be
serious.

A spokeswoman for the British Transport Police said the train was travelling
into the station at a "slow speed" when it hit the buffers.

She said police were working with Network Rail to establish the circumstances
and had informed the Rail Accident Investigation Branch.

She said: "Our officers were called to King's Cross station following a report
that a train had hit the buffers at platform 11.

A train has just crashed into the platform at Kings cross. Loads of police, Hope
everyone is OK #kingscross

- BlackSheepRevolution (@BSRMarcus) September 17, 2015

"The incident was reported to BTP at 12.18pm and involved the 10.55am Cambridge
to King's Cross service, which was travelling into the station at a slow speed.

"London Ambulance Service Medics also attended and four passengers have been
taken to hospital where they will be treated for minor injuries."

Network Rail said the cause was under investigation and officials are at the
scene to examine the train, a Govia Thameslink service.

Platform 11 remains closed and commuters are being advised to check with
National Rail Enquiries for service information.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 8:18 PM GMT

Barack Obama hosts France train attack heroes at White House;
Three Americans who helped foil a terrorist attack on a train between Paris and
Amsterdam last month

BYLINE: By David Lawler Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


President Barack Obama hosted the three American heroes who helped foil a
terrorist attack last month on board a train from Amsterdam to Paris at the
White House on Thursday.

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes on both
sides of the Atlantic after they tackled and disarmed a gunman intent on
carrying out what could have been a horrific attack.

Mr Obama met with the three men in the Oval Office on Thursday, and said they
represented "the very best of America".

"It's these kind of young people who make me extraordinarily optimistic about
our future," he said.

The childhood friends were reuniting for a European holiday, but reacted quickly
after Ayoub El-Khazzani, the 26-year-old gunman, burst into a train carriage
firing a Kalashnikov rifle.

Mr Stone, 23, a member of the US Air Force, charged El-Khazzani and was able to
wrest the firearm from him despite sustaining knife wounds.

Alek Skarlatos, 22 a US Army reservist who had recently returned from
Afghanistan, then wrestled El-Khazzani to the ground with the help of Mr Sadler,
22, a university student.

Chris Norman, 62, a British IT consultant helped the three Americans tie
El-Khazzani up.

Mr Stone was decorated by the Air Force for his heroism this week, receiving a
Purple Heart and the Airman's Medal.

Francois Hollande, the French president, awarded them them the Legion d'Honneur
medal, France's highest civilian honour, alongside a British businessman who
helped them subdue the gunman.

In Thursday's meeting, Mr Obama expressed his appreciation that the men
prevented "a real calamity", and said they had bright futures ahead of them.

"Whatever they do, they're going to do it well," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 6:54 PM GMT

Islamic terrorist shot dead after Berlin attack on policewoman;
Man identified as Rafik Y, who had been convicted in 2008 plot to murder Iraqi
PM, stabbed a policewoman in western Berlin before being shot dead

BYLINE: By Justin Huggler Berlin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


A known Islamic extremist has been shot dead by police in Berlin after he
stabbed and seriously wounded a woman officer in an apparent terror attack.

The assailant has been identified as Rafik Y., a 41-year-old Iraqi citizen who
had already served a prison sentence in Germany for his part in a 2004 terror
plot.

Police were called to Berlin's Spandau district on Thursday morning after
concerned members of the public reported a "madman with a knife" in the area.

Rafik Y. attacked a woman police officer as she got out of her patrol car,
stabbing her in the neck just above the top of her protective vest.

The woman officer's partner immediately drew his gun and shot Rafik Y. four
times.

The woman police officer, who has not been named, was rushed to emergency
surgery and was said to be out of danger on Thursday evening.

As well as the wound to her neck, she was also hit in the kidney by a stray
bullet.

Four more patrol cars quickly arrived on the scene and at least one other police
officer is believed to have opened fire.

Paramedics attempted to resucitate Rafik Y. at the scene but he died in an
ambulance on his way to hospital.

He was one of three men found guilty of a plot to assassinate the former Iraqi
prime minister Iyad Allawi during a visit to Berlin in 2004.

The three were also convicted of membership of Ansar al-Islam, a jihadist group
established in Iraqi Kurdistan with links to Al-Qaeda.

Rafik Y. was sentenced to eight years for his part in the plot at the 2008
trial. He was released early in 2013 but electronically tagged and allowed to
remain in Germany.

Bild newspaper claimed the electronic tag had only been removed from his leg
hours before the attack on Thursday morning.

For several hours after the incident, police were treating it as a random act of
violence by a mentally disturbed man.

It was only after Rafik Y. was identified in the late afternoon that it became
clear that it was a terror attack

"The person killed is an Iraqi citizen known to us who was convicted in 2008 of
membership in a foreign terrorist organisation and sentenced to eight years
imprisonment," Dirk Feuerberg, Berlin's chief prosecutor, said in a statement.

Rafik Y. reportedly threatened police officers and a judge at a hearing after
his release in 2013.

Until now, Berlin has not seen major Islamic terror attacks such as the 7/7 Tube
bombings in London or the Charlie-Hebdo shootings in Paris.

The incident is likely to add to tensions over the influx of tens of thousands
of Syrian refugees into Germany.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 2:39 PM GMT

MI5 chief Andrew Parker: Social media companies must reveal details of terror
threats;
Andrew Parker urges firms to disclose intelligence as he reveals six terror
attacks foiled in year and level of plotting against UK at three-decade high

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead and Danny Boyle Video source, BBC/ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 780 words


The head of MI5 has launched an unprecedented attack on social media companies,
saying they have a "responsibility" to pass on intelligence of potential
terrorism.

Andrew Parker, Director General of the Security Service, questioned why internet
companies would not come forward if they had suspicions of a terror risk.

He also warned Britain was facing its gravest threat from fanatics and his
agency had foiled six major plots to attack this country in the last year - the
highest he has ever known.

'It is in nobody's interests that terrorists should be able to plot and
communicate out of the reach of any authorities with proper legal power...'-
Andrew Parker

Mr Parker became the first British spy chief to give a live broadcast interview
on Thursday as the Government prepares for its latest battle over forthcoming
surveillance legislation dubbed the "snooper's charter" .

Internet and social media companies, including Facebook, Google and Twitter,
have come under fire amid accusations they are not doing enough to prevent
terrorists using their platforms to plot attacks.

Encryption services on many sites are now so sophisticated that intelligence
agencies fear suspect will increasing "go dark" and they will lose track of
them.

Mr Parker told the BBC Today programme: "It is in nobody's interests that
terrorists should be able to plot and communicate out of the reach of any
authorities with proper legal power."

Even where the security services knew the identity of a suspect and had a
warrant to obtain their communications signed by the Home Secretary, Mr Parker
said there was still a question of "can we obtain those communications from that
company?".

Facebook faced heavy criticism last year over its failure to disclose a key
conversation involving one of Fusilier Lee Rigby's killers .

He also played down fears about extremists entering Europe among the stream of
refugees from Syria, saying that was not a main focus efforts to protect the UK.

The Communications Data Bill would oblige UK internet service providers to keep
data on their customers, and make the information available to the authorities.

<!-- ver 0.5-->

"We have been pretty successful at that over recent years, but it is becoming
more difficult to do it as technology changes faster and faster."

He said people could be reassured that MI5 was not interested in their "private
lives".

"The important thing to say is that we focus on the people who mean us harm. We
are not about browsing through the private lives of citizens of this country,"
Mr Parker said.

"We do not have population-scale monitoring or anything like that."

<!-- ver 0.5-->  tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 620, height: 349, size:
'620x349', vidSize: '620x415' }; if (typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined'
&& tmgAds.page.platform === "mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 300, height:
169, size: '300x169', vidSize: '300x235' }; tmgAds.embedPlayer = { 'targetId':
'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform': tmgAds.page.platform, 'width':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height': tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay': 'false', 'vidEmbed':
'5rcmxsdTpYje8LLGb6VfTS7qHQZAYAC3', 'adTag': tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize, "pfadx", ";vidsrc=itn;vt=embed;dcmt=text/xml", 3) };
tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform=itn' +
tmgAds.page.platform + '&width=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.width + '&height=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.height + '&size=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.size + '&vidEmbed=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed + '&adTag=' +
encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPlayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer
= ''; document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);

Mr Parker insisted he did not "have a view" on specific measures such as whether
or not ministers or judges should authorise interception of communication,
insisting it was "not for me to say what should or should not be in that Bill".

But he said it was important the law was updated so it was "modern and
transparent" and "describes as straightforwardly as it can what MI5 does these
days".

In February, Facebook vowed to start helping the security services identify
potential terrorists when it told the Government it will "rapidly improve" the
identification of imminent threats made by people on its network.

It emerged in June that Twitter and other communication firms will tip off
suspected terrorists or criminals that they are being monitored by spies or
police unless ordered not to do so.

The online giant has a policy to "notify" users of requests to access their data
unless "prohibited from doing so", a landmark report into snooping powers
revealed.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 12:00 PM GMT

MI5 chief Andrew Parker: Social media companies must reveal details of terror
threats;
Andrew Parker urges firms to disclose intelligence as he reveals six terror
attacks foiled in year and level of plotting against UK at three-decade high

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead and Danny Boyle Video source, BBC / ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 684 words


The head of MI5 has launched an unprecedented attack on social media companies,
saying they have a "responsibility" to pass on intelligence of potential
terrorism.

Andrew Parker, Director General of the Security Service, questioned why internet
companies would not come forward if they had suspicions of a terror risk.

He also warned Britain was facing its gravest threat from fanatics and his
agency had foiled six major plots to attack this country in the last year - the
highest he has ever known.

'It is in nobody's interests that terrorists should be able to plot and
communicate out of the reach of any authorities with proper legal power...'-
Andrew Parker

Mr Parker became the first British spy chief to give a live broadcast interview
on Thursday as the Government prepares for its latest battle over forthcoming
surveillance legislation dubbed the "snooper's charter" .

Internet and social media companies, including Facebook, Google and Twitter,
have come under fire amid accusations they are not doing enough to prevent
terrorists using their platforms to plot attacks.

Encryption services on many sites are now so sophisticated that intelligence
agencies fear suspect will increasing "go dark" and they will lose track of
them.

Mr Parker told the BBC Today programme: "It is in nobody's interests that
terrorists should be able to plot and communicate out of the reach of any
authorities with proper legal power."

Even where the security services knew the identity of a suspect and had a
warrant to obtain their communications signed by the Home Secretary, Mr Parker
said there was still a question of "can we obtain those communications from that
company?".

Facebook faced heavy criticism last year over its failure to disclose a key
conversation involving one of Fusilier Lee Rigby's killers .

He also played down fears about extremists entering Europe among the stream of
refugees from Syria, saying that was not a main focus efforts to protect the UK.

The Communications Data Bill would oblige UK internet service providers to keep
data on their customers, and make the information available to the authorities.

<!-- ver 0.5-->

"We have been pretty successful at that over recent years, but it is becoming
more difficult to do it as technology changes faster and faster."

He said people could be reassured that MI5 was not interested in their "private
lives".

"The important thing to say is that we focus on the people who mean us harm. We
are not about browsing through the private lives of citizens of this country,"
Mr Parker said.

"We do not have population-scale monitoring or anything like that."

<!-- ver 0.5-->  tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 620, height: 349, size:
'620x349', vidSize: '620x415' }; if (typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined'
&& tmgAds.page.platform === "mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 300, height:
169, size: '300x169', vidSize: '300x235' }; tmgAds.embedPlayer = { 'targetId':
'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform': tmgAds.page.platform, 'width':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height': tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay': 'false', 'vidEmbed':
'5rcmxsdTpYje8LLGb6VfTS7qHQZAYAC3', 'adTag': tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize, "pfadx", ";vidsrc=itn;vt=embed;dcmt=text/xml", 3) };
tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform=itn' +
tmgAds.page.platform + '&width=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.width + '&height=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.height + '&size=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.size + '&vidEmbed=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed + '&adTag=' +
encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPlayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer
= ''; document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);

Mr Parker insisted he did not "have a view" on specific measures such as whether
or not ministers or judges should authorise interception of communication,
insisting it was "not for me to say what should or should not be in that Bill".

But he said it was important the law was updated so it was "modern and
transparent" and "describes as straightforwardly as it can what MI5 does these
days".

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 10:48 AM GMT

MI5 chief Andrew Parker: Social media companies must reveal details of terror
threats;
Andrew Parker urges firms to disclose intelligence as he reveals six terror
attacks foiled in year and level of plotting against UK at three-decade high

BYLINE: By Danny Boyle Video source, BBC / ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 740 words


The head of MI5 has launched an unprecedented attack on social media companies,
saying they have a "responsibility" to pass on intelligence of potential
terrorism.

Andrew Parker revealed Britain's security services have foiled six terrorist
attacks over the past 12 months as he warned the level of plotting against the
UK is at its greatest level in more than three decades.

Giving the first live broadcast interview by any head of the security services,
he urged internet companies - such as Facebook and Twitter - to come forward
with details of potential threats.

'It is in nobody's interests that terrorists should be able to plot and
communicate out of the reach of any authorities with proper legal power...'-
Andrew Parker

Even where the security services knew the identity of a suspect and had a
warrant to obtain their communications signed by the Home Secretary, Mr Parker
said there was still a question of "can we obtain those communications from that
company?".

"It is in nobody's interests that terrorists should be able to plot and
communicate out of the reach of any authorities with proper legal power," he
said

Mr Parker also suggested there needed to be "international agreement and
arrangements whereby companies have a confident basis on which to co-operate
with agencies like mine and with the police in order to protect society and
their customers".

He said the threat was "continuing to grow" amid the ongoing situation in Syria
as he backed new powers to monitor communications - and disclosed the police and
security services had needed to intervene to foil six plots in the last year.

"That is the highest number I can recall in my 32-year career, certainly the
highest number since 9/11," said Mr Parker. "It represents a threat which is
continuing to grow, largely because of the situation in Syria and how that
affects our security."

The current MI5 threat level from international terrorism for the UK is severe,
meaning a terrorist attack is highly likely.

He also played down fears about extremists entering Europe among the stream of
refugees from Syria, saying that was not a main focus efforts to protect the UK.

Mr Parker set out the challenges facing the security services as the Government
prepares for a battle over legislation dubbed the "snooper's charter" .

The Communications Data Bill would oblige UK internet service providers to keep
data on their customers, and make the information available to the authorities.

<!-- ver 0.5-->

"We have been pretty successful at that over recent years, but it is becoming
more difficult to do it as technology changes faster and faster."

He said people could be reassured that MI5 was not interested in their "private
lives".

"The important thing to say is that we focus on the people who mean us harm. We
are not about browsing through the private lives of citizens of this country,"
Mr Parker said.

"We do not have population-scale monitoring or anything like that."

<!-- ver 0.5-->  tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 620, height: 349, size:
'620x349', vidSize: '620x415' }; if (typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined'
&& tmgAds.page.platform === "mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer = { width: 300, height:
169, size: '300x169', vidSize: '300x235' }; tmgAds.embedPlayer = { 'targetId':
'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform': tmgAds.page.platform, 'width':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height': tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size':
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay': 'false', 'vidEmbed':
'5rcmxsdTpYje8LLGb6VfTS7qHQZAYAC3', 'adTag': tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize, "pfadx", ";vidsrc=itn;vt=embed;dcmt=text/xml", 3) };
tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform=itn' +
tmgAds.page.platform + '&width=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.width + '&height=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.height + '&size=' + tmgAds.embedPlayer.size + '&vidEmbed=' +
tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed + '&adTag=' +
encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPlayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer
= ''; document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);

Mr Parker insisted he did not "have a view" on specific measures such as whether
or not ministers or judges should authorise interception of communication,
insisting it was "not for me to say what should or should not be in that Bill".

But he said it was important the law was updated so it was "modern and
transparent" and "describes as straightforwardly as it can what MI5 does these
days".

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2015 Friday

Police foil terror attack bid at Pakistan's Punjab airbase - paper

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 17 September

Karachi: Police on Thursday claimed to have arrested from Karachi an
Afghanistan-trained militant who was planning to carry out a terror act at the
Kamra airbase in Punjab.

Counter-Terrorism Department SSP Junaid Ahmed Shaikh said police arrested Umer
Hayat alias Darvesh from MPR Colony, Orangi, on a tip off. He said the suspect
was associated with Tehreek-i-Imarat Islamia, Afghanistan.

Speaking at press conference at his office, the SSP said the held suspect is
also a suicide bomber who had allegedly trained two suicide bombers identified
as Raz Mohammed and Taj Mohammed.

"The purported suicide bombers had been sent to Punjab to carry out a terror act
at the Kamra airbase," said the official.

"But they failed due to extensive security arrangements there and returned back
to Karachi."

The suspect was also planning to carry out terror attacks on Eidgahs in Karachi
during Eidul Azha, in addition to planning attacks on military installations in
the metropolis.

"He is an expert in preparing suicide jackets and brainwashing suicide bombers,"
said the CTD officer.

The held suspect received training from Afghanistan and also fought there, said
the officer, adding that he was also allegedly involved in deadly terror acts
against law enforcers in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

"He basically hailed from KP and came to Karachi after the devastating
earthquake in 2005."

The SSP said the suspect's team consisted of 50 members.

"He has given names of seven hardcore militants and forces are carrying out
operations to arrest them to foil their nefarious designs," said the police
officer.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 17 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2015 Friday

Trucks barred from use of main road in Somali capital following terror attack

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report by London-based Somali-language Universal TV

Large trucks have been banned from using Mogadishu's Maka Al-Mukarama Road, the
busiest in the capital, according to a Universal TV report.

Large trucks transporting goods from Mogadishu port to Bakaaraha market, the
biggest market in the capital have now been barred from using one of the busiest
roads in the capital. Muhamamd Yusuf Osman, a Spokesman for the Minister of
National Security, has held a news conference in which he said the decree issued
by the traffic head will be implemented by the Police and National Security
officers in the capital. The spokesman gave out a list of alternative roads
which he said vehicles ferrying goods from the port could use and said those
failing to heed the order will face stiff penalties.

Somali government's decision to ban lorries from using Maka Al-Mukarama Road
follows the attack on Jazeera Hotel in Mogadishu on the 26th of July in which a
truck loaded with explosives was used to carry out the suicide attack.

Source: Universal TV, London, in Somali 1600gmt 11 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     September 18, 2015 Friday 8:59 PM GMT

More than 3,000 ISIS jihadists are in Britain NOW ready to launch attacks, warn
security sources;
Terror suspects being monitored by security services are based across London,
West Midlands and Manchester, a source claims

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words


More than 3,000 British ISIS militants are currently in the UK and prepared to
launch deadly attacks, it has been claimed.

Security sources say thousands of terror suspects are based across Britain being
monitored by MI5 and anti-terror cops.

The vast majority live in London but many are also based in Manchester and the
West Midlands.

Speaking to The Times, security sources say the number of homegrown jihadists
willing to launch attacks in Britain has grown massively in the last two years
because of the rise of ISIS.

Andrew Parker, director-general of MI5, told BBC Radio 4 yesterday that Britain
was facing its most serious terrorism threat since the September 11, 2001,
attacks on the United States and had foiled six attempted attacks in the last
year.

He said: "Most of the people who try to become involved in terrorism in this
country are people who were born and brought up here, have come through our
education system, and have nonetheless concluded that the country - their home
country and the country of their birth - is their enemy."

'We are back in America': Islamic State's chilling words in latest video

Read more: Inches from death: Deadly rocket narrowly misses ISIS terrorist in
astonishing footage

The analysis of jihadist activity seen by the Times states that the number of
violent suspects being monitored by security services has jumped by half since
2007, when 2,000 people were classified as Al-Qaeda supporters.

In August last year, Britain raised its terrorism threat level to "severe", the
second highest category which means a militant attack is considered highly
likely.

It was largely due to the danger the authorities say is posed by Islamic State
(IS) fighters and the hundreds of Britons who have joined them.

It was claimed today by a top Army officer that ISIS is crumbling thanks to air
strikes and the heroic efforts of Brit-trained Kurd fighters,

However, the murderous terror group's sickening ideology is still a threat to
the UK because there are an estimated 3,000 home-grown extremists willing to
carry out atrocities on our streets.

In Syria and Iraq, an estimated 8,000 of Islamic State's roughly 18,000 fighters
have been wiped out by a pounding airstrike campaign by the US-led coalition and
Kurdish militias.

The RAF alone is believed to have killed 330 Islamic State militants since the
campaign began and British special forces are training the Kurds.

A source in the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa in Syria told the Mirror: "Things are
changing.

"Here people are starting to rebel. Little things in the streets. They talk back
to the religious police, even alcohol is being made in private.

"It wasn't like this one month ago. I think they (ISIS) are starting to
struggle, particularly here.

"The airstrikes are causing them problems, they struggle to operate in the open,
the executions are less regular."

Now British Brigadier James Learmont says the group's "aura of invincibility" is
falling away.

He told the Sun: "The tide of the battle is turning against IS. People recognise
that they can be defeated and I think people now know that they will ultimately
be defeated."

ISIS tells people not to go to Europe as it's safer to fight in Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 18, 2015 Friday 1:58 PM GMT

ISIS likely to target CHRISTMAS SHOPPERS in next terror attack on Britain

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 627 words


BRITISH cities are at risk of a major terror attack at Christmas, as Islamic
State extremists plot their next horror assault.

GETTY

ISIS terrorists are likely to target British shops this Christmas, says an
expert

A terror expert has warned the festive period makes the iconic landmarks in the
UK a "soft target", with tourists, shoppers and revellers a likely target.

MI5 has warned Britain is facing the highest threat of a terror attack than it
has ever experienced, with six foiled in Britain and nine dsisrupted overseas in
this year alone.

Will Geddes, head of global security firm International Corporate Protection,
believes extremists will be planning for a lone wolf to carry out attacks on the
streets of London similar to the atrocity at the Tunisian holiday resort of
Sousse.

Mr Geddes said: "None of us are safe anywhere unless you are on a remote island.

"For groups like ISIS they want a maximum media impact with any horrific attack
that has people begging to return to their home nations.

Related articles  ISIS baffled why refugees are fleeing Middle East and BEGS
them to...  Britain faces biggest terrorist threat in decades as MI5 stop six...

"But those resorts are emptying out. It won't have the gravitas on an empty
resort.

"We may or may not see those threats moving more inland to major cities as one
would expect from any terrorist group.

"These risks may be moving more into central locations."

Security sources have revealed terror police are monitoring more than 3,000
Islamist extremists in Britain.

Mr Geddes believes a successful attack on a city such as London, Birmingham or
Manchester, would be seen as a major propaganda coup for ISIS.

And busy landmarks such as outside Buckingham Palace or the shopping district at
Oxford Street could be likely targets.

Mr Geddes said: "Lone wolf attacks are much more harder to detect.

GETTY

Landmarks such as the London Eye are also at threat

GETTY

Other cities such as Manchester and Birmingham should also be on alert

"When you look at a terrorist group you ask 'what is their key objective?'. In
ISIS it will be to cause human death or casualty.

"They are very media savvy and will look for optimum carnage that will be
relayed around the world.

"If around London there is going to be more publicity in Parliament Square than
the backstreets of Wandsworth.

"Terrorists, as do criminals, look for the softest targets."

The new threat shifts the focus away from Brits abroad.

British and western tourists were under an extreme threat of attack at holiday
resorts across the Spanish coast and north Africa during the popular summer
holiday season.

In June, 30 Brits were killed by lone gunman Seifeddine Rezgui as they sunbathed
in Sousse.

The ISIS-inspired killer casually sailed to a seaside hotel and opened fire with
his Kalashnikov rifle.

Related articles  Hunt for ISIS jihadi 'hiding as refugee in Calais camp as he
plots...   'Highest number' of terror plots against UK in 30 YEARS, warns...

The attack sent shockwaves around the world.

Just days later Brit holidaymakers were warned ISIS were targeting popular
resorts across the Spanish coast.

The once sun-soaked beaches are emptying as the winter months draw near and
terrorists could be setting their sights on causing carnage in cities.

However, Calum Jeffray, a national security expert with the Royal United
Services Institute, believes the threat abroad continues with lone wolf
operations the most likely.

He said: "The terror threat is not necessarily any worse than it has been over
the past few months.

"British holidaymakers are not specifically targeted by ISIS as extremists are
more focused on political objectives in Iraq and Syria.

"The attacks we have seen are lone wolf which are much more difficult for
authorities to identify and counter."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 18, 2015 Friday 9:42 AM GMT

MI5 and police are watching more than 3,000 homegrown terror suspects willing to
attack on British soil

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 892 words



     ·    Head of MI5 warns of unprecedented threat from homegrown jihadis
     ·    3,000 men and women, mainly in their teens, are being watched in UK
     ·    Andrew Parker said six terror plots alone foiled at home in the past
          year
     ·    NHS playing role in identifying people at risk of being radicalised


More than 3,000 British Islamist extremists are being monitored by police and
the security services, it was revealed today.

The group of men and women, mainly in their teens, have been radicalised and are
willing to launch a terror attack in the UK, sources have said.

Hundreds may also have trained in Syria as ISIS fighters before returning to
Britain.

It came as the head of MI5 warned that the UK is facing an unprecedented terror
threat with home-grown fanatics are 'being radicalised to the point of violence
within weeks'.

Andrew Parker said the six plots foiled at home in the past year 'is the highest
number I can recall in my 32-year career, certainly the highest number since
9/11'.

His agency has also helped to foil a further nine plots overseas while the
Government is said to have a 'kill list' of British jihadis in Syria they want
to assassinate.

On the home-grown threat, Mr Parker warned: 'Most of the people who try to
become involved in terrorism in this country are people who are born and brought
up here, have come through our education system and have nonetheless concluded
that their home country, the country of their birth, is their enemy.'

Security sources have said that more than 3,000 people are being watched because
they are considered a threat to the UK.

The NHS is helping root out extremists because experts believe a 'significant'
number are suffering from mental health problems, The Times said today.

These people are so vulnerable to grooming by other extremists that the NHS has
staff who help identify 'extremist behaviour', according to the newspaper.

Yesterday Mr Parker said greater powers were needed to monitor social media, the
internet and phone apps which Islamic State and others are using to 'broadcast
their message and incite and direct terrorism' in the UK.

Mr Parker also warned the internet giants that they have an 'ethical
responsibility' to alert the security agencies to potential threats.

A Parliamentary inquiry into the 2013 murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby found one of
the fanatics, Michael Adebowale, had discussed killing a soldier on Facebook
with another extremist but neither MI5 or the police was alerted.

Mr Parker told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'There is a real question here
about responsibility for those who carry this information.

'Some of the social media companies operate arrangements for their own purposes
under their codes of practice, which cause them to close accounts sometimes
because of what is carried.

'There is then a question about why not come forward? If there is something that
concerns terrorism, or child sex exploitation, or concerns some other appalling
area of crime, why would the company not come forward?'

Mr Parker made his remarks in the first ever live interview by a serving head of
either MI5, MI6 or GCHQ.

It comes ahead of the publication of two pieces of Government legislation - on
combating extremism, and giving security officials greater powers to monitor
communications data - that are likely to prove hugely controversial. Critics
claimed it was the first salvo in the battle to revive the so-called snoopers'
charter.

But Mr Parker said it was a fact that new technologies were posing ever-greater
challenges to his agency and the law had not kept pace.

He insisted MI5 was not interested in 'browsing through the private lives' of
the general public and should work within a 'transparent' legal framework.

The problems faced by the security agencies have been compounded by the US
fugitive Edward Snowden - who stole and leaked details of secret
intelligence-gathering techniques used by Britain and the US. His revelations,
published in the Guardian, have led to fanatics changing the way they
communicate.

Last month a British fanatic was killed in an unprecedented RAF drone attack
because he was plotting an atrocity at an event attended by the Queen.

David Cameron stunned MPs by revealing the UK had used military force in Syria
without parliamentary authority and against a Briton, claiming it was an act of
self defence.

'There was a terrorist directing murder on our streets and no other means to
stop him,' said the Prime Minister.

A second Islamic State fanatic from Britain, Ruhul Amin, died with the main
target, Reyaad Khan, in the secret operation on August 21.

A third, Junaid Hussain, was killed three days later by a US drone in a joint
operation with the UK.

British Islamic State executioner Mohammed Emwazi is terrified of being killed
in a drone attack and shields himself behind civilians to avoid being targeted,
it has been claimed.

The killer, nicknamed Jihadi John, fled onto a football pitch to mingle with the
players in a desperate attempt to dodge a drone strike, according to witnesses.

Two non-Syrian visitors to IS territory in Mosul, northern Iraq, last year said
Emwazi and his fellow jihadis were so paranoid that they stayed indoors when
they heard drones overhead.

On one nine-hour car journey, Emwazi insisted that another militant spend much
of the time scanning the sky for drones and could speak of little else when
several were spotted.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                     September 18, 2015 Friday 9:30 AM EST

Electronic Access Control Systems Market: Protection against Crime and Terror
Attacks to Drive Market to US$31.2 bn by 2019 : Transparency Market Research

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, New York, September 18, 2015


The global electronic access control systems market is expected to develop at a
CAGR of 12.6% from 2014 to 2019. Consistency in this growth rate will allow the
market to reach US$31.188 billion in 2019. The global access control systems
market was worth US$15.406 billion in 2013, according to a research released by
Transparency Market Research. The report titled "Electronic Access Control
Systems Market Global Forecast, Market Share, Size, Growth and Industry
Analysis, 2014 - 2019" explores the global access control systems market in
detail to provide accurate forecasts regarding the market's growth prospects.

Full Research Report on Electronic Access Control Systems Market with detailed
figures and segmentation at:

http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/electronic-access-control.html

The key driver of the global electronic access control systems market is the
growing rate of criminal activities and terror attacks on especially public and
government locations. Private facilities and homes are targeted as well, making
the global electronic access control systems needed in an even greater level
today.The global electronic access control systems market is a part of the
global security market, and therefore has to compete with other security
features and services to grow in terms of revenue. Key attributes that will
attract consumers to the global electronic access control systems market,
according to the report, are its high accuracy and efficiency in time, cost, and
convenience.

Government bodies that are seeking superior security systems to negate
fraudulent entries, criminal activities, and even illegal immigration, can find
the tools and services for them through the global electronic access control
systems market.

Get Sample Report Copy OR For further inquiries, click
here:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/sample/sample.php?flag=s&rep_id=1
827

The largest segment in the global electronic access control systems market for
2013 was authentication systems, which exhibited a CAGR of 12.6% between 2009
and 2013. By the end of 2013, this segment had generated a revenue of US$11.7
billion.

The report's geographical segmentation of the global electronic access control
systems market reveals the Asia Pacific to have the highest CAGR of 16.7% within
the report's forecast period. The Asia Pacific electronic access control systems
market is expected to be worth US$9.6 billion by 2019.

The largest end user in the global electronic access control systems market in
2013 was the commercial sector. This segment was previously developing at a CAGR
of 13.9% from 2009 to 2013 to be worth US$4.6 billion by 2013.

Browse the Press Release of this report, here:

http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/pressrelease/electronic-access-control
.htm

The major players in the global electronic access control systems market are the
ones that provide all services available in the market. This list of companies
includes Cisco Systems, Inc., Godrej Industries Limited, Tyco International
Ltd., and United Technologies Corporation.

Companies that operate in the global electronic access control systems market
while providing services and products in only two of the three market categories
are Honeywell International Inc., Panasonic Corporation, 3M Cogent, Inc., and
Safran SA. Other market players are Everspring Industry Co., Ltd.,
DigitalPersona, Inc., Magal Security Systems Ltd., Hitachi Ltd., and Siemens AG.

Browse the Article of this report, here:

http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/article/electronic-access-control.htm

Key segments of the Global EAC Systems Market

EAC system Market, by Process Segment

    Authentication system

       Biometric system

o    Fingerprint recognition

o    Face recognition

o    Iris recognition

o    Palm recognition

o    Voice recognition

o    Signature recognition

o    Vein recognition

o    Automated Fingerprint Identification System /Live Scan

       Card based authentication system

o    Proximity card

o    Smart card

·    Intruder alarm system

   Perimeter security system

·    Free standing perimeter security

·    Buried perimeter security

EAC system Market, by Region

·    North America

·    Europe

·    Asia Pacific

·    Rest of the World (ROW)

Other Research Reports by Transparency Market Research:

·    Electronic Recycling
Market:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/electronics-recycling-market.ht
ml

·    Consumer Electronics
Market:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/consumer-electronics-market.htm
l

·    Industrial Controls System
Market:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/industrial-controls-market.html

Browse All Semiconductor & Electronics Market Research
Reports:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/semiconductor-market-reports-5
.html

About Us

Transparency Market Research (TMR) is a global market intelligence company
providing business information reports and services. The company's exclusive
blend of quantitative forecasting and trend analysis provides forward-looking
insight for thousands of decision makers. TMR's experienced team of analysts,
researchers, and consultants use proprietary data sources and various tools and
techniques to gather and analyze information.

TMR's data repository is continuously updated and revised by a team of research
experts so that it always reflects the latest trends and information. With
extensive research and analysis capabilities, Transparency Market Research
employs rigorous primary and secondary research techniques to develop
distinctive data sets and research material for business reports.

Contact

Mr. Atil Chaudhari

90 State Street, Suite 700

Albany, NY 12207

Tel: +1-518-618-1030

USA - Canada Toll Free: 866-552-3453

Email:sales@transparencymarketresearch.com

Website:http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com

Blog:http://www.europlat.org



LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2015 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 18, 2015 Friday 3:37 AM GMT

3,000 terror suspects plotting to attack UK

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Chief Reporter

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 790 words


MI5 and anti-terrorism police are monitoring more than 3,000 homegrown Islamist
extremists willing to carry out attacks in Britain, security sources have told
The Times.

British men and women, many in their teens, are being radicalised to the point
of violence within weeks.

Investigators have also detected a significant overlap between Islamist suspects
and those suffering mental health problems, leaving them vulnerable to grooming.
The NHS now has full-time staff attached to the anti-extremism Prevent programme
who try to identify signs of extremist behaviour.

Although more than half of Islamists on terrorist watch lists live in London,
especially in the capital's east and west, there are other hotspots in the
southeast, West Midlands and Manchester.

The scale of the domestic threat was revealed after Andrew Parker became the
first MI5 director-general in the agency's 106-year history to give a live
broadcast interview. Intelligence officials had foiled six plots in the past
year, he said yesterday, calling on internet giants to help in the fight.

Mr Parker told BBC Radio 4: "Most of the people who try to become involved in
terrorism in this country are people who were born and brought up here, have
come through our education system, and have nonetheless concluded that the
country - their home country and the country of their birth - is their enemy."

The new analysis of jihadist activity suggests that the number of violent
suspects being monitored has risen by more than 50 per cent since 2007, when the
security agencies had a list of 2,000 people seen as active supporters of
al-Qaeda. The number has surged in the past two years with the rise of Islamic
State in Syria. Most of those under suspicion have never been to Syria but have
fallen under the influence of the organisation's online propaganda.

About 1,000 Britons are thought to have joined jihadist groups in Syria, 300
have returned and 70 have been killed fighting in Syria and Iraq since 2011.

Mr Parker's radio appearance has come weeks before the government is due to
bring a new investigatory powers bill before parliament, outlining how
intelligence agencies are allowed to operate and proposing a more open and
rigorous scrutiny of their work. The bill will follow a series of reviews and
reports in recent months - including the comprehensive paper produced by David
Anderson, QC, the reviewer of anti-terrorism laws - which have laid the
foundations for legislation.

Mr Parker said that MI5 would welcome the new approach: "It's important that
from time to time legislation is updated so that we're operating modern,
straightforward law that describes transparently and as fully as it can what
sort of thing MI5 does these days."

However, he suggested that new laws would not be enough to win the battle
against an enemy that used "secure apps [on the] smartphones in our pockets" to
incite and direct terrorism. The challenge of tackling terrorists was, MI5 said
in a statement, increasingly difficult in the online world. Although it could
identify suspects, "getting access to what they are planning is far more
difficult than in the past".

Mr Parker cautioned that "there cannot be a guarantee that we can find and stop
everything". He said: "It is in nobody's interests that terrorists should be
able to plot and communicate out of the reach of any authorities... I think
there is a real question about whether companies holding information of that
sort should... come forward to the authorities and share and report it."

In his annual report on anti-terrorism laws, Mr Anderson also warned of the
digital reach of jihadists based overseas. He said: "UK-based extremists are
able to talk directly to [Islamic State] fighters and their wives in web forums
and on social media. The key risk is that this propaganda is able to inspire
individuals to undertake attacks without ever travelling to Syria or Iraq."

Mr Anderson also warned that restrictions on freedom of speech in the
forthcoming counterextremism bill risked "provoking a backlash in affected
communities, hardening perceptions of an illiberal or Islamophobic approach,
alienating those whose integration into British society is already fragile and
playing into the hands of those who, by peddling a grievance agenda, seek to
drive people further towards extremism and terrorism".

Shami Chakrabarti, of Liberty, said that the security services must not be given
a blank cheque. She added: "There are all sorts of reasons for privacy. It is
not just criminals and terrorists who have a value in protecting their
communications and their data."

The Internet Services Providers' Association said last night that the case for
extending online surveillance powers had not been made.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 19, 2015 Saturday

Terror attacks meant to dent Pakistan-Afghanistan ties - analyst

LENGTH: 629 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 19 September

Lahore: The terrorist attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan are being carried out
to damage the relations between the two countries, Najam Sethi said on Friday
[18 September] during Geo News programme 'Aapas ki Baat.

Talking about the Badaber attack, he said there were visible similarities in the
Afghan and Pakistan Taliban attacks on military installations, like using the
forces' uniforms. In such attacks, the terrorists reached the target in two to
three groups, bombed the entrances and divided into groups after entering the
premises, he added.

According to Sethi, the terror strikes in Pakistan are linked to Afghanistan
with many of those in Afghanistan originating in Pakistan. The Taliban based on
either side of the border send suicide missions to the other country.

Had Pakistan acted against the terrorists groups 10 years ago or not allowed
their formation, the situation would not have reached this point. We would have
been describing the terrorists as misguided Muslims even today, if Gen Raheel
had not decided to act against them.

Sethi said there had been marked decrease in terror activities in the country
due to Operation Zarb-e-Azb, adding that the resolve of civil and military
against terrorism was appreciable.

He criticised Defence Minister Khawaja Asif for his statement in which he said
Pakistan had expelled the Afghan intruders but Afghanistan was not
reciprocating. Describing the assertion as undiplomatic, Sethi said it would
strengthen the enemies of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, adding that the ISPR
[Inter-Services Public Relations] chief in contrast had issued a very cautious
and balanced statement.

According to Sethi, how Khawaja Asif can claimed that the Haqqani network has
been expelled from the country when the entire world and even Pakistan accept
that it is not an easy job. Tagging the Afghan government with terrorism in
Pakistan and not keep focusing on Mullah Fazlullah is a huge change.

Tension between the two countries will sustain, if there is any proof that
Afghanistan is controlling Mullah Fazlullah. Afghanistan too has been levelling
similar allegations that the Haqqani network is controlled by Pakistan. Kabul is
also perhaps thinking about presenting proof in the UN that terrorists coming
from Pakistan are responsible for the attacks in Afghanistan.

Sethi said the terror strikes on either side of the border were aimed at
damaging Pak-Afghan relations. He said Pakistan had assured Ghani of initiating
talks between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban by April last and ensuring end to
their attacks, but there had been no success so far.

According to Sethi, Afghanistan is wrong in assuming that the Taliban would stop
carrying out attacks on Pakistan's call, as they are not being controlled by
Pakistan. They did not listen to Pakistan even when they were in power.

The Indian role in Afghanistan is a proven fact. The Modi government is not
serious in pace and India would not back out from Afghanistan after getting the
power to use against Pakistan for the first time. Pakistan had jihadists for
using against India but the formation of Taliban made New Delhi think that they
too now have non-state actors to hurt Pakistan.

Sethi said the US could not succeed in Afghanistan because terrorists had taken
refuge in Pakistan. The US kept on saying 'do more' but Pakistan didn't pay any
attention, he remarked. "Same is the case now."

"We will have to make a strategic decision that none of the Taliban could be an
asset for Pakistan or Afghanistan," Sethi said. Only after that, Pakistan,
Afghanistan and the US could be on the same page and the Indian conspiracies
foiled, he added.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 19 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 20, 2015 Sunday 2:27 PM GMT

MI5 pay British Muslims up to £2,000 a time to spy on mosques in bid to avert
new terror attacks

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words



     ·    Intelligence agency allegedly recruiting individuals for short
          assignments
     ·    Counter-terrorism programme believed to be focused on specific targets
     ·    Use of payments criticised by one senior figure in the Muslim
          community
     ·    Comes two days after head of MI5 warned UK faces unprecedented threat


MI5 is paying British Muslims up to £2,000 to spy on mosques in a bid to avert
terror attacks, it has been claimed.

The intelligence agency is allegedly recruiting individuals to work on temporary
assignments in cities including London and Manchester, sources from within the
Muslim community said.

The counter-terrorism initiative is believed to be targeting specific
individuals, with informants gathering information over a series of weeks.

A source with knowledge of the payments, but who is not from Whitehall, told the
Observer : 'It's being driven by the [intelligence] agencies, it's a network of
human resources across the country engaged to effectively spy on specific
targets.'

The use of payments to gather information has been criticised by one senior
figure in the community, who asserted people may be tempted to make information
up.

Salman Farsi, a spokesman for the East London Mosque, which has not been
confirmed as one of the places frequented by informants, referred to a previous
anti-terrorism initiative called Prevent as he questioned the new strategy.

He said: 'We want our national security protected but, as with everything, there
needs to be due scrutiny.

'When they started dishing out money [under the last initiative], everyone was
willing for a bit of money to dish the dirt, make up stuff.'

The claims were made just two days after sources revealed more than 3,000
British Islamist extremists are being monitored by police and the security
services.

The group, mainly men and women in their teens, are willing to launch terror
attacks in the UK, it was said.

Andrew Parker, head of MI5, added his own warning, stating that the UK is facing
an unprecedented terror threat with home-grown fanatics 'being radicalised to
the point of violence within weeks'.

He said the six plots foiled in the past year 'is the highest number I can
recall in my 32-year career [and] certainly the highest number since 9/11'.

In an interview with the BBC's Radio 4, he added that social media companies
have an 'ethical duty' to expose and report terrorists to the security services.



Plans for a 'Snoopers' Charter', proposed by Home Secretary Theresa May, would
bolster the capabilities of spies and police by allowing them access to the
online communications of would-be terrorists.

But the legislation faces a battle from privacy and human rights campaigners who
say such measures represent an assault on freedoms.

The Home Office said it does not comment on security matters.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 20, 2015 Sunday 2:00 AM GMT

'9/11 was the sure thing': Psychiatrist 'isn't shocked' that comedian Steve
Rannazzisi lied about surviving terrorist attack - says patients did it all the
time

BYLINE: KIRI BLAKELEY FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 716 words



     ·    'No other event has inspired so many false claims among my patients'
          says psychiatrist Jean Kim of the days following 9/11
     ·    Kim says that a tale of surviving 9/11 brings instant sympathy and a
          sense of connectness to ' sad, lonely, empty' people
     ·    Comedian Steve Rannazzisi has been lying about surviving the attacks
          for years and used the story in several interviews
     ·    He was forced to admit he made the whole thing up
     ·    'It does seem to have helped jump-start his career' says Kim of the
          fabricating comedian


A psychiatrist says that lying about 9/11 is so common she wasn't at all
surprised by comedian Steve Rannazzisi's colorfully false tale of escaping the
South Tower.

'I can recall at least 10 similar instances of people saying they had a sibling,
a son, a cousin or parents who had died in the attack,' psychiatrist Jean Kim
told the Washington Post.

They were lying.

Rannazzisi, star of The League, came under fire last week when he was forced to
admit to the New York Times that his dramatic and detailed story of escaping the
South Tower just before it collapsed wasn't at all true - in fact, he'd been
working in midtown that day.

'I was not shocked to hear comedian and actor Steve Rannazzisi reveal he lied
about having escaped the twin towers that day,' Kim told the outlet.

'We can't know Rannazzisi's exact motive for lying (indeed, he claims to not
know either), but his lie does seem to have helped jump-start his career, if
only by setting him apart... perhaps the pull of fame was too much for a young
guy looking for his big break. 9/11 was the sure thing.'

Rannazzisi posted to Twitter, 'I was not in the World Center that day. I don't
know why I said this. This was inexcusable. I am truly, truly sorry.'

The comedian told the story of being in the South Tower, working for Merrill
Lynch on the 54th floor, when the first plane hit the North Tower.

In reality, Merrill Lynch had no offices in the building, nor does the company
have any record of Rannazzisi being employed there.

For years, Rannazzisi gave a harrowingly detailed account of running out of the
tower, trying to hail a cab who wanted to charge him $400, walking across the
Brooklyn Bridge, and even being scared for his wife, whom he claims was also in
the tower.

He said the trauma of the day inspired him to quit his job and move to Los
Angeles to pursue a career in comedy.

When the truth came out last week, the comedian was taken to task by another
comedian with a 9/11 connection, Saturday Night Live's Pete Davidson, whose
fireman father did die in the towers.

Buffalo Wild Wings, which had just signed Rannazzisi, also announced it was
dropping him from their commercials, according to the New York Daily News.

Kim says in the days following 9/11 when she worked in Manhattan (she now
practices in the Washington D.C. area), she heard many tall tales about people
either being in the buildings or having a relative in the buildings - and the
stories didn't add up.

'One had a tale about a grown child recovering in a burn unit, but the hospital
he was at kept changing each time she told it,' she said. 'When I called the
most recent hospital she'd mentioned, they had no record of her son.'

'Another patient claimed to have had parents on one of the planes that crashed,
but later admitted it wasn't true.'

Kim attributes people lying about being victims of the terror attacks to a
spectrum ranging from wanting attention and sympathy, to wanting to gain health
insurance or money.

'9/11 was a game-changer for the American psyche and as such, might have become
a lightning rod for the particular 'sympathy' lies it garnered.'

'No other event has inspired so many false claims among my patients. And people
of all stripes and socioeconomic classes seemed to sense the power lurking
behind that type of attention, that kind of historic relevancy. It's the power
of infamy,' she said.

She says we 'shouldn't necessarily feel enraged' by people who lie about 9/11
because they are 'usually ultimately sad, lonely, empty people who capitalize on
this unprecedented capacity for charity.'

As for Rannazzisi, she credits him with coming clean 'at great cost to his
reputation' and says he sounds genuinely remorseful in his statements.

She says people who usually malinger with such tall tales rarely have 'much
insight or regret.'

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists plan attacks with mini drones

BYLINE: Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 412 words


DEFENCE and security officials fear that terrorists could fly drones carrying
bombs into landmark UK buildings.

They have become increasingly alarmed at the proliferation of small drones,
available from high street retailers or on the internet for less than £1,000,
and the possibility that they could be used to launch terrorist attacks.

The more sophisticated four and six-rotor drones can be manoeuvred using GPS
technology, meaning they could be flown over security barriers and onto the
roof, or through doors or windows, of sensitive buildings.

The warnings follow the discovery in April of a small drone reportedly
containing traces of radiation on the roof of the Japanese prime minister's
office in Tokyo.

In January a wayward drone flown by an off-duty intelligence employee crashed in
the grounds of the White House.

An expert cross-government team is to consider how to detect and bring down
small drones that could carry out assassinations or deliver explosives or dirty
bombs.

"It's not a case of just flying down Oxford Street," said a defence source.
"Where else might someone want to fly, what building might they want to fly it
into to deliver whatever the payloads might happen to be?" In May the
government's Defence Science and Technology Laboratory invited private companies
devising counterdrone technology to test their equipment over six days at an RAF
range on the southwest coast of Scotland.

In June another unit of the Ministry of Defence held a drone trial for the
Metropolitan police near Canary Wharf in east London.

The main reason for the test was to see whether the drones were sophisticated
enough to be used in police operations but it was also to understand how rogue
ones could be stopped.

The UK-based defence group Selex ES last week unveiled details of a shield that
identifies and then takes over control of drones being used to launch terror
attacks.

Rather than jamming the navigation system of a suspect drone, causing it to fall
out of the sky, the Falcon Shield system can direct it away from its target and
force it to land away from crowds.

"An IED [improvised explosive device] borne by a UAV [unmanned aerial vehicle] -
that is a very real threat at the moment," said Stephen Williams, capability
manager at Selex ES. "It is probably just a matter of time before something
adverse is done using a drone."

The Met said: "We recognise the increasing use of drones represents a potential
security, safety and privacy challenge."

@markhookham

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drones can be manoeuvred using GPS technology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     September 21, 2015 Monday 8:43 AM GMT

SAS hero kills six ISIS fighters by himself despite being 'out-gunned and
outnumbered' during terror ambush in Syria;
The British soldiers were smuggling a secret agent into Iraq when 30 Islamic
terrorists sprung a botched attack

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 195 words


An SAS hero managed to single-handedly kill six Islamic State terrorists in
Syria after being ambushed in a fierce fire fight.

The unnamed solider was operating in Syria while trying to smuggle a secret
agent out of Syria, which is being ruled in large parts by ISIS monsters.

They were trying to get the agent across the border from Syria to Iraq.

However the British troops feared the worst when they were ambushed by 30
militants.

But during an intense fire fight, one of the SAS troops managed to kill six ISIS
fighters himself using an automatic shotgun.

A source told the Daily Star on Sunday: "It was a classic SAS encounter. They
had lost the initiative when the ambush was sprung.

"They were out-gunned and out-numbered but the team remained calm and focused.

"The last thing the jihadis expected was to be attacked, given that the SAS team
consisted of eight men and there were at least 30 enemy fighters.

"The SAS quickly regained the initiative by using courage, aggression and
firepower."

The secret British troops then managed to successfully flee to their
headquarters located in Iraq, sources claim.

ISIS tells people not to go to Europe as it's safer to fight in Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                           September 21, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Passengers' 'gun' terror as bus is attacked

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 236 words


SHOCKED passengers feared they were being shot at when a bus window smashed
during a journey.

Travellers heard a 'loud bang' and shattering glass on the Stagecoach 540
service as it travelled through Westhoughton in Bolton.

Police were called to the scene on Bolton Road after a hole was found in the
pane, which travellers thought could have been caused by a gun, air pistol or
other weapon.

Officers found no evidence of a shooting outside the bus and it's understood the
incident is not being treated as firearms-related.

One traveller, who asked not to be named, said: "There was a loud bang then the
window was shattered into small pieces. It wasn't an every day bang you'd hear
if a brick or stone was thrown. The sounds even caused earache and headache to a
lot of the passengers. One man on the bus heard the bang over his music playing
through his headphones."

The witness said they believed the window damage was caused by 'a gun shot or
pellet gun shot.' .

A GMP spokesman confirmed that officers were called to Bolton Road in
Westhoughton at 9.10pm and are now investigating how the damage was caused.

A spokeswoman for Stagecoach said: "Safety is our absolute priority. One of our
vehicles was involved in an incident on Monday night in which one of the windows
was broken.

"We understand that one passenger was treated for a minor injury as a result.

"We are assisting police with their inquiries into the incident."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The shattered window.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 21, 2015 Monday 9:10 AM GMT

Anonymous to sell ISIS-branded thongs and G-strings in continued attack on
terror group;
Anonymous tweeted out a picture of the skimpy underwear emblazoned with the
jihadists distinctive black flag as an apparent show of disrespect

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 313 words


A controversial group of hackers have revealed plans to start selling
ISIS-branded thongs and G-strings in an attempt to enrage the terror group.

Anonymous tweeted out a picture of the skimpy underwear emblazoned with the
jihadists' distinctive black flag as an apparent show of disrespect.

The message underneath reads: "#Anonymous might start selling
#IslamicState-branded thongs/g-strings. Interested? #TrollingISIS #OpISIS."

The 'hacktivist' group has targeted ISIS with a series of cyber-attacks on
websites and social media accounts used by terrorists to recruit new members and
spread propaganda.

ISIS pants

The militant Islamist organisation has a huge social media presence, with
accounts on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Instagram.

Through Operation ISIS - #OpISIS - the decentralised hacking group has been
strategically targeting this online presence.

"ISIS, we will hunt you, take down your sites, accounts, emails and expose you,"
says the 'hacktivist' group in a statement.

"You will be treated like a virus, and we are the cure. We own the internet."

In the Anonymous digital armoury are distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attacks, which hammer ISIS websites with traffic until they go offline, and
repeatedly reporting social media accounts so they get suspended.

The shadowy organisation also points out that it's made up of "Muslims,
Christians and Jews", adding "we come from all races, countries, religions and
ethnicity".

"Remember - the terrorists that are calling themselves Islamic State (ISIS) are
not Muslims!"

The 'ISIS flag' is actually an ancient Muslim tradition adopted by the terror
group in an attempt to legitimise their savage philosophy.

The white banner at the top of the militants' flag reads: "There is no god but
Allah. Mohammad is the messenger of Allah."

Underneath is a white circle with black writing reading "Mohammed is the
messenger of God".

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday

Extremist guilty of plotting terror attack 'for the Aryan people'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


An extremist who fantasised about shooting Prince Charles so Harry could be king
has been found guilty of plotting a terror attack "for the Aryan people".

Mark Colborne, 37, likened himself to Norwegian far-right terrorist Anders
Breivik and made notes in his diary of his plan to assassinate the royal heir
with a high powered sniper rifle.

He bought the ingredients for deadly poison cyanide over the internet, and
stockpiled dust masks, metal filter funnels, plastic syringes and latex gloves,
jurors were told.

Colborne was caught after his half brother uncovered chemicals and papers
detailing his racial hatred stashed in his bedroom at the family home in
Southampton.

Following a retrial at the Old Bailey, he was found guilty by a majority of
preparing terrorist acts before his arrest on June 3 last year.

The jury convicted him on the basis that Colborne possessed handwritten notes
copied from internet sources such as The Terrorist Handbook, The Complete
Improvised Kitchen and The Jolly Roger Cookbook about the production of viable
explosives.

They also agreed that he had books with titles including Assorted Nasties,
Silent Death and The Poor Man's James Bond, which contained recipes for the
production and delivery systems of lethal poisons such as cyanide.

However, the jury rejected aspects of the allegations that he intended to use
the chemicals and paraphernalia as part of the terror plot.

As Judge John Bevan QC adjourned sentencing to Tuesday November 3, he commented
that it was a "very strange" case involving a "very strange person".

The court heard Colborne felt alienated and marginalised for being a white,
ginger-haired, man and also suffering from agoraphobia and depression.

In his notebook, he wrote: "I don't want to be a serial killer. I'm more of an
Anders Breivik. I have left potential targets open.

"I was waiting for an opportunity to kill one of them. Let it be Prince Charles
which would be good."

He went on to state that he wanted a "silent rifle", adding: "Take up a good
position and put a bullet in Charles's head.

"He is protected but not too protected. I would sacrifice my life for that one
shot. Kill Charles and William and Harry become king. Kill the tyrants."

Prosecutor Annabel Darlow QC said Colborne's notes expressed hatred for
"non-Aryans" who he referred to as "blacks and Caucasian idiots".

Comparing himself to other right-wing extremists, he wrote: "I'm looking for
major retribution, a mass terrorist attack which will bring to the attention our
pain not just mine but my brothers around the world."

On June 3 last year, Colborne's half brother Kevin was preparing to do some
decorating at the family home in Butts Road when he came across some receipts
for chemicals.

He became concerned to learn that they included chemicals that could be used for
fireworks and told their mother Patricia what he had found.

Together, they went into Colborne's "extremely cluttered" bedroom and uncovered
an assortment of chemicals, the books and other equipment and called the police.

In his defence, Colborne admitted buying the chemicals and writing the diary but
dismissed entries as "angry rants" made when he was off medication for
depression.

He said: "Fantasies about killing people as a hitman - that was my number one
fantasy. Terrorism fantasies were sort of subsidiary but my main interest in
being a professional hitman had taken over."

Colborne had faced a retrial after a jury failed to agree a verdict in May.

ends

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 22, 2015 Tuesday 2:35 PM GMT

'Ginger extremist' found guilty of plotting terror attack

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 386 words


A GINGER-HAIRED extremist who fantasised about killing Prince Charles has been
found guilty of planning a terror attack.

GETTY

GUILTY: Mark Colborne fantasised killing Prince Charles

Neo-Nazi Mark Colborne, who felt alienated and marginalised for being white and
ginger-haired, planned to carry out a terror attack before he was arrested in
June last year.

His trial heard how the 37-year-old loner kept a diary where he wrote about his
desire to kill the heir to the throne using a sniper rifle.

Colborne - who compared himself to terrorist Anders Breivik - made notes in his
diary about assassinating the royal heir.

He also acquired manuals entitled Assorted Nasties, Silent Death and The Poor
Man's James Bond, jurors were told.

Colborne was caught after his half brother found papers detailing racial hatred
stashed in his bedroom at the family home in Southampton.

GETTY

TRIAL: Mark Colborne was found guilty after a trial at the Old Bailey  Mark
Colborne

Colborne was found guilty of plotting a terror attack by the jury at the Old
Bailey after 14 hours of deliberation.

A jury failed to reach a verdict after a trial earlier this year.

The jury in this trail rejected allegations he possessed chemicals to make
cyanide and dimethyl sulphoxide, and stockpiled paraphernalia including
syringes, screw top spray and face masks.

Judge John Bevan QC adjourned sentencing to November 3.

Colborne made no reaction in the dock as the verdict was delivered.

In a notebook, he wrote: "I don't want to be a serial killer. I'm more of an
Anders Breivik. I have left potential targets open.

"I was waiting for an opportunity to kill one of them. Let it be Prince Charles
which would be good."

He went on to state that he wanted a "silent rifle", adding: "Take up a good
position and put a bullet in Charles's head.

"He is protected but not too protected. I would sacrifice my life for that one
shot. Kill Charles and William and Harry become king. Kill the tyrants."

Related articles Briton's cyanide murder Brit 'neo-Nazi' accused of plotting to
kill ethnic minorities in cyanide attack Tianjin explosion: Death toll rises to
114 as experts fear 'cyanide rain'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2015 Tuesday 8:26 PM GMT

'Harder by the day to protect Britain from terror attacks' says Defence
Secretary

BYLINE: John Ingham

LENGTH: 511 words


PROTECTING Britons from terror attacks is "becoming harder by the day", Defence
Secretary Michael Fallon warned yesterday.

GETTY

The Defence Secretary said it is becoming harder to protect Britain

Intelligence experts have also warned that the Islamic terror threat is yet to
peak.

Mr Fallon told a London think-tank the slaughter of 38 tourists, including 30
Britons, on a beach in Tunisia in June shows how difficult it is to defend "our
people".

And he warned that terrorists and other states are "catching up" with Britain,
whose technological edge on the battlefield is being eroded.

Mr Fallon told the Royal United Services Institute the upsurge in terrorist
activity is making it tougher for the Government to carry out its first duty -
protecting the public.

Related articles  Hiding in plain sight: ISIS jihadists to use migrant crisis
to...  MI5 pay British Muslims £2,000 to spy on terror suspects in mosques

He said: "The first thing to say is that our number one priority will always
remain the protection of our people.

"Yet, as the savage murders on a Tunisian beach demonstrate, that task is
becoming harder by the day."

He said that with every homegrown jihadist "battle-hardened in Syria" returning
to Britain, the risks increase.

GETTY

Our security forces face an 'unprecedented threat'

Mr Fallon said: "Last week the head of MI5, Andrew Parker, said Britain is
facing an 'unprecedented and growing terror threat' with 15 attacks foiled
worldwide and six in this country this year alone... with the number of terror
plots the highest since 9/11.

"That's why we have already ringfenced counter-terrorism spending."

Yesterday senior security source said of the terror threat: "We do not believe
we have reached the high-tide mark yet. We think there's still more to come."

Latest official figures show a record 299 arrests for terrorism-related offences
in the year to March 31, a 31 per cent increase on the previous year and the
highest since records began after the 9/11 attacks.

More than 700 Britons have flocked to Iraq and Syria to become jihadists, mainly
with Islamic State.

About 70 have been killed in the Middle East while around 350 have returned home
and could pose a threat.

But security sources say there is a also a threat from jihadists in Syria using
the internet to incite attacks here by Britons.

Mr Fallon repeated his pledge that there would be no more cuts to manpower in
the defence review.

Under the 2010 study, the regular Army alone is already being cut to its
smallest size in 200 years - 82,000 personnel - and have to rely on greater
support from reservists. Mr Fallon added: "We have made it clear there are not
going to be more cuts to the numbers of regulars in the Army, Royal Navy and
RAF."

Related articles How safe is your holiday destination? Map of tourist hotspots
with terror threat levels Record numbers of Britons probed for TERROR offences
as poisonous ISIS ideology spreads 'Highest number' of terror plots against UK
in 30 YEARS, warns MI5 boss ISIS likely to target CHRISTMAS SHOPPERS in next
terror attack on Britain

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2015 Tuesday 5:42 PM GMT

'Ginger extremist' found guilty of plotting terror attack on Royal Family

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 228 words


A 'GINGER extremist' neo-Nazi who was bullied because of the colour of his hair
has been found guilty of plotting a terror attack on the Royal Family.

GETTY

Princes Harry, Charles and William

Mark Colborne, 37 was intent on becoming a world-famous 'lone wolf' terrorist
like the Norwegian far-right extremist Anders Breivik.

He fantasised about assassinating Prince Charles and Prince William so
red-headed Prince Harry would become king, the Old Bailey heard.

The Aryan supremacist, who lived with his mother in her Southampton house and
worked in a funeral parlour, ranted in his diary about attacking people with
dark hair including Jeremy Clarkson and Harriet Harman for insulting ginger
people.

Colborne was accused of planning a poison attack using homemade cyanide sprayed
from a perfume bottle he bought on Amazon.

Related articles  'Ginger extremist tried to grow cyanide on Shredded Wheat to
carry...  Mass murderer Anders Breivik says being lonely in prison is...

The terrorist gathered together the recipes, equipment and ingredients to make
enough of the poison to kill 2,500 people.

But his plot was uncovered last summer when his half-brother came across the
deadly stash.

Colborne denied charges of preparing terrorist acts on or before 2 July 2014 but
was found guilty at a trial in London today.

He was remanded in custody and will be sentenced on November 3.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2015 Tuesday 3:43 PM GMT

Tunisia sees a million less tourists after terror attacks;
The number of foreign visitors to Tunisia has dropped by 20 per cent following
the terror attacks this summer

BYLINE: By Soo Kim and Reuters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words


Tunisia's foreign visitor numbers have been reduced to four million from the
start of this year to September 10, compared to the five million who visited
Tunisia in the same period last year, Salma Loumi, the country's tourism
minister, said yesterday.

The North African country, where tourism accounts for around seven per cent of
its gross domestic product (GDP), has been under a state of emergency since the
shootings, when 38 people, including 30 Britons, were killed by a gunman at a
hotel in Sousse in June, just three months after 21 tourists were attacked by
gunmen at the Bardo National Museum in the capital city of Tunis.

Security has been heightened around tourist sites and other popular locations in
the city since the two Islamic State militant group attacks, which were declared
to be the worst in the country's history.

The Foreign Office has advised against all but essential travel to Tunisia amid
fears it is "highly likely" Britons will be targeted in a fresh terror attack.

Earlier this summer, it was predicted that the FO warning could be lifted within
"weeks, certainly months" if the government of Habid Essid, the Tunisian prime
minister, could impose tighter security around hotels, Philip Hammond, the
Foreign Secretary, said.

The tour operators TUI and Thomas Cook have cancelled their Tunisia programmes
from Britain until next year, while tour operators across Europe have shifted
some of their routes to destinations including Spain.

Some hotels have closed while foreign tour groups have cancelled some routes,
cruises and packages. The Spanish hotel group RIU, which is a part of TUI, said
it was reviewing its presence in Tunisia.

"Three of the hotels we manage will be closed over the winter months and we need
to talk to the owners of the other hotels we manage there to see what we can
do," said a spokeswoman for RIU, which runs 10 hotels in Tunisia.

Tunisia has reduced its economic growth forecast to 0.5 per cent for this year,
down from its initially anticipated three per cent.

Mr Loumi hopes Tunisia can take advantage of the country's current difficult
period to work on reform, including diversifying the country's tourism options.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorist plotted royal attack after seeing red;
NEWS BULLETIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 97 words


The family of a ginger-haired terrorist who plotted to attack the Royal Family
and put Prince Harry on the throne has been praised for alerting the police.

Neo-Nazi Mark Colborne, 37, from Southampton, wanted to "put a bullet in the
head" of Prince Charles and Prince William so that ginger-haired Prince Harry
would become king.

The fanatic was also accused of planning a "mass terrorist attack" using cyanide
so that the world would know the "pain" of all his red-haired brothers.

At the Old Bailey, Colborne was convicted of plotting a terror attack. He will
be sentenced in November.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

VENDETTA OF A WIFE BETRAYED;
Woman convicted of road rage crime against ex-pal she believes had affair with
her husband She was let off on two previous charges after sheriff sympathised
over her anger A LOVE RAT Dean Cavanagh ; PAGE 13 aT www.dailyrecord.co.uk
TROUBLE & STRIFE ; Angry wife who walked free after scissor attack terrorises
victim in road rage shocker

BYLINE: ALAN McEWEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 484 words


A JILTED wife who was let off after "scalping" her former best friend went on to
target her in a road rage attack just months later.

Debbie Cavanagh, 29, pursued teacher Aisha TURN TO PAGE 4 FROM PAGE ONE Johal at
high speed - and even went the wrong way round a roundabout in a bid to cut off
the car she was travelling in.

The mother-of-three's five-year-old son was in the back seat as she gave chase
after the woman she suspected of having had an affair with her husband, a court
heard yesterday.

Cavanagh first hit the headlines last year after a bizarre attack on Aisha
during which she cut off part of her ponytail with scissors, punched her
repeatedly and bit her.

She was given an absolute discharge by a sympathetic sheriff - but within weeks
continued her vendetta against the teacher at her children's primary school.

Aisha told Edinburgh Sheriff Court how she feared Cavanagh was going to ram her
colleague Nicola Coppola's car after she spotted them.

The 36-year-old said they were driving in Duddingston, Edinburgh, when they
passed Cavanagh, who "gave us the middle finger".

Cavanagh did a U-turn and tailgated them, leaving only "about a yard" between
the two cars.

Aisha said: "We couldn't see her number plate, she was so close.

"Debbie was gesturing aggressively and blasting the horn in long spurts.

"As we started round the roundabout, she went the wrong way to try to cut us
off."

Aisha told the court she was "very panicked" and thought: "Is she going to crash
into us?" Pupil support assistant Nicola, 40, hit the brakes to avoid a
collision and drove to nearby Craigmillar police station.

In evidence, beauty therapist Cavanagh, who also had her new boyfriend in the
car, claimed Aisha had approached her vehicle and swore at her.

But Sheriff Pamela Bowman said she had "no doubt" Aisha and Nicola were telling
the truth.

She found Cavanagh guilty of causing Aisha fear and alarm during the chase on
May 23 last year and deferred sentencing until next month.

Cavanagh launched her first attack on Aisha after becoming convinced that she
had been sleeping with her husband Dean.

She invited her best friend to her home on December 11, 2013, and assaulted her.

Police had to be posted at Duddingston Primary when Cavanagh sent threatening
messages to teachers and parents.

But in February last year, a sheriff took pity on her after hearing how her
marriage broke down and she lost her closest friends after discovering that Dean
had cheated on her.

In March, we told how Cavanagh was convicted of scrawling insults, including
"home-wrecker", "tart" and "slut", on the walls of the home of another woman she
believed had a fling with her husband.

She was also admonished for that offence, committed on December 10, 2013.

A court previously heard Cavanagh's husband "confessed" to liaisons with a woman
he allegedly got pregnant, Aisha and another friend of his wife.

Aisha has always denied any affair.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM Aisha Johal was twice targeted by CavanaghUNHINGED Mum-of-three
Debbie Cavanagh terrorised Aisha by driving within feet of her car in road rage
attackUNHAPPY ENDING Dean and Debbie Cavanagh. Far left, Cavanagh at court.
Inset, story in March

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Harder by the day to protect Britain from terror attacks'

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words


PROTECTING Britons from terror attacks is "becoming harder by the day", Defence
Secretary Michael Fallon warned yesterday.

Intelligence experts have also warned that the Islamic terror threat has yet to
peak.

Mr Fallon told a London think-tank the slaughter of 38 tourists, including 30
Britons, on a beach in Tunisia in June shows how difficult it is to defend "our
people".

And he warned that terrorists and other states are "catching up" with Britain,
whose technological edge on the battlefield is being eroded.

Mr Fallon told the Royal United Services Institute the upsurge in terrorist
activity is making it tougher for the Government to carry out its first duty -
protecting the public.

He said: "The first thing to say is that our number one priority will always
remain the protection of our people.

"Yet, as the savage murders on a Tunisian beach demonstrate, that task is
becoming harder by the day."

He said that with every homegrown jihadist "battle-hardened in Syria" returning
to Britain, the risks increase.

Mr Fallon said: "Last week the head of MI5, Andrew Parker, said Britain is
facing an 'unprecedented and growing terror threat' with 15 attacks foiled
worldwide and six in this country this year alone... with the number of terror
plots the highest since 9/11.

"That's why we have already ringfenced counter-terrorism spending." Yesterday, a
senior security source said of the terror threat: "We do not believe we have
reached the high-tide mark yet. We think there is still more to come."

Latest official figures show a record 299 arrests for terrorism-related offences
in the year to March 31, a 31 per cent increase on the previous year and the
highest since records began after the 9/11 attacks.

More than 700 Britons have flocked to Iraq and Syria to become jihadists, mainly
with Islamic State.

About 70 have been killed in the Middle East while around 350 have returned home
and could pose a threat.

Security sources say there is also a threat from jihadists in Syria using the
internet to incite attacks here by Britons. Mr Fallon repeated his pledge that
there would be no more cuts to manpower in the defence review. Under the 2010
study, the regular Army alone is already being cut to its smallest size in 200
years - 82,000 personnel - and has to rely on greater support from reservists.

Mr Fallon added: "We have made it clear there are not going to be more cuts to
the numbers of regulars in the Army, Royal Navy and RAF."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defence Secretary Michael Fallon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 23, 2015 Wednesday 4:02 PM GMT

Revealed: One million fewer tourists visiting Tunisia following Islamic attacks
with Britons still warned of 'high terror threat'

BYLINE: BECKY PEMBERTON FOR MAILONLINE and REUTERS

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 547 words



     ·    The tourism minister announced this week the plummet in visitor
          numbers
     ·    Four million have so far visited in 2015, a million down on this time
          in 2014
     ·    Thirty-eight people were killed by a gunman at a hotel in Sousse in
          June


The number of foreign tourists visiting Tunisia dropped by about a million in
the first eight months of the year to four million after two Islamist militant
attacks, the tourism minister said on Monday.

Thirty-eight people were killed by a gunman at a hotel in Sousse on the
Mediterranean coast in June, three months after 21 tourists were killed by
gunmen attacking the Bardo National Museum in the capital Tunis.

The Islamic State militant group claimed the two worst attacks in the North
African country's history.

Scroll down for video

Tunisia, which relied on tourism for about seven per cent of its gross domestic
product, is under a state of emergency after the attacks with security
heightened around tourist sites and high-profile locations in the capital.

'The number of tourists dropped to about four million since the beginning of the
year through to September 10 compared with five million who visited Tunisia in
the same period last year,' Tourism Minister Salma Loumi said.

Some hotels have closed while foreign tour groups have cancelled some routes,
cruises and packages.

While acknowledging the difficult situation, Loumi said the industry should take
advantage of this time to start reforms, including improving the quality of
services and diversifying tourism options.

Tunisia has cut its economic growth forecast to 0.5 percent for this year, down
from an initially expected three per cent.

Britain is advising tourists against travel to the country after 30 of its
citizens were killed in the Sousse attack when a gunman opened fire on
holidaymakers while they lounged at the beach and poolside.

Tour operators TUI and Thomas Cook have halted their Tunisia programmes from
Britain until next year, while tour operators across Europe have shifted some
capacity to destinations such as Spain.

GOVERNMENT WARNS AGAINST VISITING TUNISIA DUE TO TERROR THREAT

Advice from the Foreign Office :

There is a high threat from terrorism, including kidnapping.

If you choose to travel to or remain in Tunisia then you should check that your
insurance policy provides adequate cover.

You should be especially vigilant and follow the advice of the Tunisian security
authorities.

There are no direct flights between the UK and Monastir or Enfidah airports.

There are daily Tunis Air flights from Tunis Carthage airport direct to London,
and indirect daily departures with European carriers.

Contact your airline or travel company directly if you have an enquiry about
your travel plans.

The Tunisian authorities have announced that Tunis Carthage airport will be
closed to all air traffic, for runway maintenance, from 5pm on 14 October until
8pm on 16 October.

Tunisair flights to London during this period will depart from Monastir airport.

If you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative
abroad, contact the consular assistance team on 020 7008 1500 (24 hours).

If you're abroad and need emergency help, please contact the nearest British
embassy, consulate or high commission.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Ginger' extremist plotted royal family terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 241 words


A "GINGER" extremist who fantasised about shooting Prince Charles so Harry could
be king has been found guilty of plotting a terror attack "for the Aryan
people".

Mark Colborne, 37, likened himself to Norwegian far-right terrorist Anders
Breivik and made notes in his diary of his plan to assassinate the royal heir
with a high powered sniper rifle.

He bought the ingredients for deadly poison cyanide over the internet, and
stockpiled dust masks, metal filter funnels, plastic syringes and latex gloves,
jurors were told.

Colborne was caught after his half brother uncovered chemicals and papers
detailing his racial hatred stashed in his bedroom at the family home in
Southampton.

Following a retrial at the Old Bailey, he was found guilty by a majority of
preparing terrorist acts before his arrest on June 3 last year.

The jury convicted him on the basis that Colborne possessed handwritten notes
copied from internet sources such as The Terrorist Handbook, The Complete
Improvised Kitchen and The Jolly Roger Cookbook about the production of viable
explosives.

They also agreed that he had books with titles including Assorted Nasties,
Silent Death and The Poor Man's James Bond, which contained recipes for the
production and delivery systems of lethal poisons such as cyanide.

However, the jury rejected aspects of the allegations that he intended to use
the chemicals and paraphernalia as part of the terror plot.

As Judge John Bevan QC adjourned

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 24, 2015 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT

Thursday's best TV: Who Do You Think You Are?, Cradle to Grave, Charlie Hebdo:
Three Days That Shook Paris;
BBC security correspondent Frank Gardner explores his past and turns up a
wronged Tudor knight, Danny Baker has to choose between sport and romance in his
autobiographical 1970s sitcom, and a documentary recalls the attacks by Islamist
terrorists that shook the city at the start of the year. Plus: Celebrity Big
Brother: Live Final and First Dates

BYLINE: Ali Catterall, Graeme Virtue, Hannah Verdier, David Stubbs, Julia
Raeside, Andrew Mueller, Jack Seale, Paul Howlett

SECTION: TELEVISION & RADIO

LENGTH: 807 words

Who Do You Think You Are? 9pm, BBC1

"This story has taken a really dark turn and I'm not happy about it at all." So
says the BBC's security correspondent Frank Gardner, whose own life once turned
pretty dark after he was shot and left for dead in Riyadh in 2004. In this
instance, he is referring to his 10-times great-grandfather, a Tudor knight who
was sentenced to death in the Tower of London, wrongly accused of treason. ("An
absolute travesty!") Elsewhere, he discovers more rakish relatives - and
personal letters from Charles Darwin. Ali Catterall

Cradle to Grave 9pm, BBC2

Danny Baker's autobiographical 1970s sitcom continues, and things are looking
up: he's captain of the school football team during a cup run and Miss Blondel,
the alluring French teacher who runs the photography club, seems to be receptive
to his clumsy advances. But when forced to choose between his sporting and
romantic ambitions, Danny's decision doesn't go down well with PE teacher Mr
Glover (guest star John Henshaw). Elsewhere, dad Spud struggles to raise the tin
required for Sharon's wedding. Graeme Virtue

Celebrity Big Brother: Live Final 9pm, Channel 5

Another bonkers series of Celebrity Big Brother draws to a close after four
weeks of meltdowns, fake evictions and screeching. There's been no shortage of
drama, with one of the highlights being Bobby Davro taking down Teen Mom
venom-pot Farrah Abraham. Emma Willis will be bounding around for the Live
Final, picking off the last ones standing like leeches on the muddy leg of the
celebrity world. Get 'em out! Hannah Verdier

The Secret Rules of Modern Living: Algorithms 9pm, BBC4

Oxford professor Marcus du Sautoy puts his reassuring bedside presentational
manner to good use as he seeks to demystify the world of algorithms, those
sinister numerical forces that, we are told, are now running the world. He
explains how algorithms actually date back to the era of ancient Greek
mathematics, how Google's shrewd use of them means that no one talks about
AltaVista any more, and how they affect every aspect of our lives, from credit
card security to online dating. David Stubbs

First Dates 10pm, Channel 4

Third in the glorious eavesdropping series where willing singles come for dinner
with a stranger in a camera-rigged restaurant, as the alcohol flows and the
waiting staff hover discreetly, egging the action along where necessary.
Tonight, Paul meets Samantha and the two slip straight into the kind of comic
banter that suggests an instant connection. They are unable to stop jousting,
even for a moment. Annoying that this is a finite series. Surely they could just
run the restaurant as a going concern and keep the cameras rolling? Julia
Raeside

Charlie Hebdo: Three Days That Shook Paris 10pm, More4

Documentary recalling January's attacks by Islamist terrorists on Paris
gendarmes, a Jewish supermarket in the same city and the offices of satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo. A total of 17 people were murdered; three perpetrators
were later killed by police. This film hears from survivors of the attacks and
those bereaved by them. The fact that people still insist on equivocating about
the machine-gunning of cartoonists for doing drawings makes retellings such as
this all the more important. Andrew Mueller

Wicked Tuna: North v South 9pm, National Geographic

More competitive bluefin fishing, and there's an exciting start to this second
round. To reach a nearby tuna school, a couple of the crews have to navigate the
narrow gap between two bridge supports, in swirling water that could capsize
their boat. They might easily drown, they tell us in interviews recorded
afterwards. Once that excitement's ebbed, we settle into a rhythm of rods
bending, fish struggling and people in waterproofs whooping. Then it's back
ashore, where the heaviest, fattiest fish earn the big bucks. Jack Seale

Film choice

                     Dreamgirls (Bill Condon, 2007) 9pm, 5*

Adapted from a 70s Broadway show, Condon's dynamic musical follows a Motown
group through the heyday of soul and disco. The energised cast includes Beyoncé
Knowles as a Diana Ross-type diva, the Oscar-winning Jennifer Hudson, vying to
be leader of their gang, Jamie Foxx a motor-mouthed (well, it is Detroit)
manager and, best of all, Eddie Murphy as raunchy soul man James "Thunder"
Early. Paul Howlett

Today's best live sport

                     Golf: The European Open Coverage of the opening day from
Golf Resort Bad Griesbach in Germany. 10am, Sky Sports 4

Rugby World Cup: New Zealand v Namibia All the action from the Pool C encounter
at the Olympic Stadium in London, where Namibia are the final team of the 20
involved to play a game in this year's tournament. 7.30pm, ITV

American Football: New York Giants v Washington Redskin s NFL action from the
MetLife Stadium. 1am, Sky Sports 1

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 24, 2015 Thursday 9:46 AM GMT

Thomas Cook summer sales meet expectations as travel firm looks to move on from
Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: MARK SHAPLAND FOR THIS IS MONEY

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 462 words


Travel operator Thomas Cook said trading over the summer had been strong and
that it is on course to meet its scaled-down full-year expectations.

In July the company warned that profits for the year would be £25million lower
than expected following the terrorist attack in Tunisia in June at Port El
Kantaoui which saw 30 British tourists gunned down on the beach.

The company said today in a update that 91 per cent of its summer holidays had
been sold, and that it has been encouraged by 'strong pricing' and booking
trends for its winter holidays, with 39 per cent of the season sold.

Peter Frankhauser, chief executive, said: 'Our trading performance for the
Summer season has progressed well, despite the impact of external shocks in
certain destination markets, as previously announced.

'With more than a third of the Winter 2015/16 season sold, the bookings profile
for next year is also encouraging.'

In early morning trade, shares are up 5 per cent, or 4.9p, at 120.8p.

Keith Bowman, at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: 'Maintained management expectations
for full year growth provide the key positive. Recent poor weather in
Scandinavia has aided trading for its Northern Europe business, with both its UK
and Airlines Germany businesses further contributing..

'On the downside, events outside of its control such as those in Tunisia and
Greece have impacted, whilst the cross winds of currency movements add further
difficulty to the task of management.'

He added: 'Airlines Germany continues to battle the low cost airlines, whilst
the price of jet fuel generates yet another uncertainty for the board to content
with.

'In all, despite clear challenges, the group is again reporting progress. An
encouraging start to winter trading has been made, while the previously
announced partnership with Chinese company Fosun appears to offer significant
longer term opportunity.

'For now, and with current geopolitical and currency challenges weighed against
an undemanding valuation, analyst consensus opinion currently signifies a strong
hold.'

Thomas Cook's update comes a day after Tui Group, Europe's largest travel
company, said trading remained robust.

Low cost airlines Ryanair and easyJet also reported a increase in summer
bookings as Britons swarmed to sunnier climates in August to avoid the drab
summer weather at home.

Earlier this year Thomas Cook was dealt it second major blow of the year
following an inquest into the deaths of two young children Bobby and Christi
Shepherd, who died from carbon monoxide poisoning while on a Thomas Cook holiday
in Corfu nine years ago.

Thomas Cook came in for heavy criticism for its response to the deaths and
announced at the end of May that it would make a substantial donation to
charities nominated by the children's families.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Staffie terror;
Out-of-control bull terrier threw tiny Pomeranian dog around like a rag doll ;
Terror as tiny dog is attacked by Staffie

BYLINE: Lynn Jolly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 361 words


A tiny Pomeranian dog underwent emergency treatment after a horrific attack by a
Staffordshire bull terrier left it badly injured, a court has heard.

The dog's owner looked on stunned and shocked as his prized pet was grabbed by
the neck and thrown around like a rag doll.

Paisley Sheriff Court was told that the out-of-control Staffie grabbed the
little dog by the neck, was clinging on with its teeth, and "dragging the other
dog around ferociously".

The incident happened in the town's Limecraigs Road on June 18 last year.

Accused William Craig admitted being the owner of the dog which escaped through
a hole in his garden fence and went straight for the other pet, which was being
walked by his owner on an adjoining public footpath.

Proceedings were raised TURN TO PAGE 2 FROM PAGE 1 against him under the
Dangerous Dogs Act of 1991. The court heard how Brian Haxton was walking his
10-year-old Pomeranian called Sonic around 1.45pm when he suddenly heard loud
barking coming from the accused's garden.

The Staffordshire bull terrier named Apollo came charging at his dog from a
space in the fence, and grabbed it and held it firmly in its jaws.

Eventually, with assistance, they managed to force the dog to release its grip
and lead it away.

The badly-injured Pomeranian was taken to a vet for initial treatment but
suffered complications that required additional care.

The total vet's bill was in excess of £1,000 following treatment for bite
injuries and infection which set in.

Defence agent Terry Gallanagh said that his client had expressed remorse and
already paid Mr Haxton £200 towards the first course of treatment.

The gap in the fence had previously been boarded up by placing a door against
the damaged area, but someone else had removed it, allowing the dog to escape,
he said. Craig, 57, who now lives in Craggs Crescent, Paisley, admitted being
the owner of a dog which had been dangerously out of control on the date in
question.

After studying reports which had been prepared following Craig's original
appearance in the dock, Sheriff James Spy ordered him to pay a further £750
towards the veterinary bill by way of a compensation order, and fined him £250.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In court William Craig allowed his Staffordshire Bull terrier, similar
to the one pictured above left, to attack a Pomeranian like the one pictured
above right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Hong Kong paper says 46 dead in coal mine terror attack in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report by Chinese newspaper China Daily website on 21 September

Beijing: Prosecutors handled 110,000 corruption cases, involving 140,000
suspects, from the beginning of 2013 until this August, according to the Supreme
People's Procuratorate (SPP).

"Our country has been taking decisive anti-corruption measures since 2013 and
made notable achievements in handling corruption cases," said SPP Vice President
Sun Qian on Monday at a press conference.

A sweeping campaign against corruption and extravagance was launched after the
18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in late 2012 when
the new leadership headed by Xi Jinping vowed to crack down on corruption.

The campaign is still going strong as discipline inspections routinely uncover
misbehaving officials at various levels and pass their cases to judicial organs.

According to Sun, an increasing number of senior officials are among the
judicial targets. In 2013, eight officials at or above the provincial or
ministerial level were under judicial investigation. Last year, the number rose
to 28, while the first eight months of 2015 have already seen the fall of 26.

Among them were Zhou Yongkang, former Standing Committee member of the Political
Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, who was sentenced to life in prison for
graft in June, and Ling Jihua, a former senior political advisor who is still
under prosecutors' investigation.

Source: Ming Pao website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 25 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 25, 2015 Friday 6:35 AM GMT

Embassies fear terror attack in Kuala Lumpur shopping centre

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 123 words


US and Australian authorities in Malaysia have warned of a potential terrorist
attack in a Kuala Lumpur shopping area famous for its street vendors.

The US embassy issued an advisory saying it had credible threat information and
urged citizens to avoid Alor Street, in a shopping belt in the city centre, and
its immediate surrounding areas.

It says terrorist organisations had in the past planned attacks to coincide with
significant dates, but gave no details.

The Australian embassy issued a similar alert to its citizens.

A police spokesman said a statement would be issued later.

Malaysia has arrested more than 100 supporters of the Islamic State (IS) group
in the past two years, some of whom were allegedly plotting attacks in the
country.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Yemen: Ban condemns terrorist attack on Sana'a mosque

LENGTH: 171 words


United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned today's terrorist
attack at the al-Bolayli mosque in Yemen's capital Sana'a, which happened during
prayers for the Eid al-Adha holiday.



In a statement issued by his spokesperson in New York, Mr. Ban expressed his
deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of the victims and to the
people of Yemen.

"Such attacks against places of worship, or civilians anywhere, cannot be
justified by any cause," the statement noted.

The Secretary-General also called for a full investigation of the bombing and
for the perpetrators to be brought to justice.

Fighting between the Government and rebel Houthi forces in the country has raged
for more than a year, claiming the lives of more than 2,000 civilians.

According to the United Nations, more than 400 children were killed, and more
than 600 injured between 26 March - which saw an escalation in the conflict with
the launch of air strikes by a Saudi-led coalition - and August.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Yemen: Ban condemns terrorist attack on Sana'a mosque

LENGTH: 249 words


United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned today's terrorist
attack at the al-Bolayli mosque in Yemen's capital Sana'a, which happened during
prayers for the Eid al-Adha holiday.



In a statement issued by his spokesperson in New York, Mr. Ban expressed his
deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of the victims and to the
people of Yemen.

"Such attacks against places of worship, or civilians anywhere, cannot be
justified by any cause," the statement noted.

The Secretary-General also called for a full investigation of the bombing and
for the perpetrators to be brought to justice.

Meanwhile, members of the Security Council also condemned in the strongest terms
the "horrific" terrorist attacks, reaffirming that terrorism in all its forms
constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.


The 15-member body also reiterated its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, and reminded States that they must ensure that measures taken to
combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under international law.

Fighting between the Government and rebel Houthi forces in the country has raged
for more than a year, claiming the lives of more than 2,000 civilians.

According to the United Nations, more than 400 children were killed, and more
than 600 injured between 26 March - which saw an escalation in the conflict with
the launch of air strikes by a Saudi-led coalition - and August.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Hereford Times

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Full story: Six years in jail for terror attack on 15-year-old

BYLINE: Court Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 473 words


A "DANGEROUS" young Herefordshire man who watched violent pornography before
ambushing and trying to rape a 15-year-old girl in Leominster has been jailed
for six years.

Christopher Williams, aged 23, continued his attack even when the girl screamed
at him that she was only 15, Worcester Crown Court was told.

Judge Michael Cullum told Williams he "stole" the girl's youth - and said he was
such a danger that, when eventually released from his six-year prison term, he
would serve an extra three years on licence from jail.

Williams, of Ford Street, Wigmore, admitted attempting a serious sexual assault
on the teenager as she walked home from The Grange park in Leominster at 8.20pm
on April 4 last year.

A victim statement said the girl was now so frightened that she no longer left
her mother's side and even slept in her mum's bed.

Phillip Bradley, prosecuting, said Williams walked through a churchyard and
joined the same footpath as the girl, who was listening to music on her mobile
phone.

She sensed that someone was behind her and turned on her heel to find him in
front of her.

He asked her for a light for his cigarette and she gave him a lighter but he
failed to ignite it.

"He then grabbed her in a bear hug and took her to the ground,"

said Mr Bradley.

Mr Bradley added that the victim - who screamed that she was only 15 and "leave
me alone" - tried to fight him and kicked him in the genitals.

She eventually managed to get to her feet but dropped her phone, which he ran
away with.

She rushed towards her home "clearly hysterical" and came across a care worker,
telling her what happened.

After police tracked down Williams, the teenager identified him as her attacker.

A pre-sentence report to the court said Williams had watched pornography before
the attack, said Mr Bradley.

Abigail Nixon, defending, said Williams, who had taken cocaine, had gone out
trying to buy cannabis.

The assault had been an "impulsive act" and not a deliberate attempt to attack a
child, although she accepted he continued even after the girl told him her age.

Miss Nixon added Williams's partner, with whom he has a child, was standing by
him and he was otherwise a "family man, a good father and a working man".

Judge Cullum told Williams: "You are a dangerous young man. That night you were
fuelled by cocaine when you left your partner and family.

"Possibly at some stage you decided to rape a woman.

The fact is you decided to ambush what turned out to be a child."

The judge praised the courage and presence of mind of the girl during the
attack.

He added: "You accept you watched violent rape pornography.

"You have affected the life of your victim and her family for ever.

"You stole her youth - her ability to be carefree as a teenager - by trying to
fulfil a lust for a power-driven attack."

Williams has been placed on the sex offenders register for life.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gangland gun pupils given trauma help;
Kids may have seen school shooting ; TOTS' TERROR AFTER BRAZEN ATTACK

BYLINE: SALLY HIND

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 337 words


CHILDREN traumatised by a gangland shooting yards from their primary school are
being offered support.

The daughter of the target, named locally as underworld enforcer Ross Sherlock,
is one of several youngsters feared to have witnessed the violence.

Sherlock, a friend of murdered thug Kevin "Gerbil" Carroll, was shot after
arriving to pick up his daughter from St Helen's Primary in Bishopbriggs, north
of Glasgow, on Thursday afternoon.

He remained in hospital last night but his life was not in danger.

Children and parents scattered in terror as three shots were fired just after
3pm on the street outside the school.

Armed police raced to the scene in Dornoch Place and officers told residents to
stay in their homes.

Chief Inspector Craig Smith said: "I believe a number of young children
potentially witnessed this incident.

"We are working together with our colleagues at East Dunbartonshire Council to
provide support to those children and the families."

Detective Inspector Stephen Grant added: "The welfare of the victim's daughter
is very important in our minds."

It's understood the attacker used a silver handgun and wore a yellow high-vis
jacket with the hood pulled up.

He is described as about 6ft, in his mid-40s and heavily built.

Police believe he fled in a stolen silver VW Golf with a getaway driver. The
car, FR12 TYB, was found burned out shortly after in a street less than a mile
away and will be examined by forensics experts.

Police say the Golf was stolen in north Glasgow in March. They want to hear from
anyone who has seen it since then.

Mr Grant said the man shot was "known to police before the attack". He added:
"We are confident this was an isolated attack and that the victim was
specifically targeted."

Sherlock, 33, lives in a £400,000 house in north Glasgow. He helped carry
Carroll's coffin at his funeral after the thug was gunned down in an Asda car
park in 2010.

Carroll, notorious for his extreme violence, was murdered at the supermarket in
Robroyston, less than two miles from Bishopbriggs.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET Gangster SherlockINCH BY INCH Search for clues at Dornoch Place
yesterday. Picture: Garry F McHarg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Terrorist attack warnings issued

BYLINE: victoriabrenan

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 73 words


MALAYSIA: US and Australian authorities in Malaysia have warned of a potential
terrorist attack in a Kuala Lumpur shopping area.

The US embassy issued an advisory saying it had credible threat information and
urged citizens to avoid Alor Street, in a shopping belt in the city centre, and
its immediate surrounding areas.

It says terrorist organisations had in the past planned attacks to coincide with
significant dates, but gave no details.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 26, 2015 Saturday 12:36 AM GMT

Tourists desert Tunisia after June terror attack;
Country's fragile economy hit by sharp fall in tourism bookings after beach
hotel attack in which 38 people died

BYLINE: Chris Stephen in Sousse

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1166 words


It's as if the attack never happened. On the beach outside the Imperial Marhaba
hotel in Sousse, sun loungers have been cleaned of blood, floral tributes washed
away by the tide and a commemorative sign has been moved to a more discreet
place.

But at night, the attack comes to life once more, at least in the head of Karim
Sahloul.

Sahloul, 38, a receptionist in the neighbouring Palm Marina hotel, repeatedly
relives the memory of braving gunfire to save the life of a British woman who
survived five gunshot wounds. "There are nightmares. I can't forget this. I
sleep now with sleeping pills."

Related: Tunisian hotel workers recall terror: 'We opened our breasts against
the bullets'

The trauma is doubled by the fact that he has lost his job, as hotels across the
city close with tourists having deserted Tunisia en masse. The government,
scrambling to assure the world it is winning the war with terrorists, has
attacked jihadi bases and arrested 160 Sousse suspects. But the jury is out on
whether the Islamic State threat is vanquished and the beaches safe.

Sahloul's nightmare began just after midday on a sunny Friday in late June.
Through windows of the hotel lobby he saw tourists running off the beach in
panic. "First I thought it must be a tsunami. I didn't hear shots, I didn't
understand."

He ran to the beach and saw the lone black-clad gunman, 23-year-old Seifeddine
Rezgui, waving a machine gun.

"He was walking, very easy, he was smiling," says Sahloul. By then 38 tourists,
30 of them British, were dead. Sahoul joined an impromptu squadron of beach
staff forming a line to block the path of the gunman. When Rezgui ran the other
way, later to be shot dead by police, Sahloul ran along the sand to the Marhaba
to search for survivors.

There he saw a middle-aged couple in swimsuits, lying side to side, riddled with
bullets and apparently dead. "The woman moved her hand. I understood she was
alive."

The woman was 48-year-old Allison Heathcote, described by doctors as the
"miracle patient" after surviving her wounds.

Fighting the fear that the gunman would return, Sahloul picked up a discarded
towel and dabbed it on her wounds. She looked up at him and smiled, and he tried
to keep her conscious. "It is something we are trained in. I knew it was
important to keep her awake."

She asked for water and he found a plastic water bottle, dabbing her lips, then
he asked her questions to keep her talking. "I asked her name. She said:
'Allison.' I said: 'When did you come here?' She said: 'I came yesterday.'"

Then came a question that poleaxed him. "She asked what had happened to her
husband."

Inches away lay the body of her husband, Phillip, 53. Sahloul made a snap
decision not to tell her the truth, worried the shock might kill her. But he
decided not to lie.

"I said: 'Don't think about your husband. You need to survive.'"

He stayed with her for nearly an hour until medics arrived. One gave him a drip
feed to hold while she was moved to a stretcher. He asked about her chances; the
doctor said: "Pray for her."

Heathcote was later flown to Britain, where she remains in hospital.

At the time, Sahloul says, he felt no fear, only the urge to help. The trauma
came later. "I don't sleep afterwards. I went to the doctor - I was given three
weeks off work."

He now he faces a new problem as Tunisia's tourist industry has collapsed. With
Britain and other countries warning against travel to Tunisia, tour agencies
have cancelled bookings and the number of visitors from Britain are predicted to
fall this year by 80-90% from the 420,000 who came in 2014.

It is a hammer blow to an already weak economy and last week Sahloul was laid
off as his hotel closed. Next door, only a handful of tourists sit amid the rows
of sun loungers outside the Marhaba, whose Spanish operator, Riu, said this week
it may close the hotel and eight more. Visiting Sousse's hotels these days is an
eerie experience, with empty pools, deserted bars and buffets laden with uneaten
food.

"Ninety per cent of this town relies on tourism, directly or indirectly, so now
everyone is suffering," says Salah Lahjouhi, who has worked in hotel restaurants
here for 20 years.

He gestures across the empty sand, where two women in bikinis are the only
swimmers: "I can't believe it. I dream one day to open my eyes and find things
as usual."

Driving along the coastal strip, a taxi driver starts counting off the hotels
closing, stopping the cab when he reaches 26. He grips the steering wheel.
"Sousse is dying," he says.

The tourist industry knows the problem: "The top priority for the next years
will be safety, safety, safety," Abdellatif Hamam, director general of the
Tunisian National Tourist Office, told Reuters this week. "We cannot afford any
more incidents."

After the attack, the government declared a state of emergency and passed a
draconian anti-terrorism law. Three jihadi camps have been raided and a wall is
being built along the Libyan border, the main Isis infiltration route.

Related: Tunisia beach attack: local heroes now face unemployment

"The state of emergency has helped us enormously to catch the terrorists," says
Walid Loukini, media officer at Tunisia's interior ministry. "The ones arrested
for the Sousse attack are under investigation. For sure they will go to court
and it will be public."

But the terror threat has yet to be eradicated, with cat-and-mouse battles
raging between militants and security forces in border regions. Meanwhile, Isis
continues to grow in the chaos of neighbouring Libya.

Rezgui, a Tunisian, was trained in the main Isis camp in western Libya at
Sabratha, as were two Tunisian suicide attackers who killed 21 tourists in the
capital's Bardo museum three months before.

"Isis is impossible for the Tunisian authorities to handle because the threat is
mainly based in Libya," says David Thomson, a Paris-based terrorism expert. "We
cannot say that Tunisia does nothing. Tunisia has struck the jihadis, but they
didn't manage to eradicate the threat."

Some fear the tough new laws will be counter-productive, further alienating
unemployed youth in hardscrabble towns such as Gaâfour, 60 miles south-east of
Tunis, where Rezgui was raised, and driving them into the hands of Isis.

"These laws may lead to a rise in repression," says Amna Guellali of Human
Rights Watch. There can be a backlash from the young people who are feeling the
heat from these laws."

One thing that has changed in Sousse is the police presence: It took 40 minutes
for officers to arrive on the day of the attack, but now armed officers in
black-and-white T-shirts are posted in each hotel, despite the fact that there
are fewer and fewer people to guard. More watch over traffic junctions, while a
coastguard cutter and gendarmerie on jet skis with red flashing lights patrol
the shoreline.

Whether this be enough to lure back the tourists, only time will tell. "I will
stay without work for eight months. How I will manage I don't know," says
Sahloul. "Allison is alive, this the important thing."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Nottingham Post

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Teenager who plotted terror attack on school is given life sentence

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 24-25

LENGTH: 355  words


A 19-YEAR-OLD who plotted a massacre at his former college has been jailed for
life with a minimum term of eight years, reports the BBC.

Liam Lyburd was convicted at Newcastle Crown Court of possessing an arsenal of
weapons including pipe bombs and a gun, with intent to endanger life.

The judge said his threats showed he was a significant risk to the public.

In a deleted file recovered from his computer, Lyburd wrote: "People will die,
there's no question about that."

Jurors heard the "cold and detached" teenager held a grudge against his former
college after he was kicked off his course for bad behaviour.

Lyburd, of Hamilton Place, Newcastle, said had not intended to hurt anyone at
Newcastle College.

Police found a cache of weapons, a "kill bag" containing overalls, a mask, boots
and pipe bombs at his home after they were tipped off by a person concerned
about his Facebook postings talking about launching a murderous attack.

The bag also contained a Glock pistol and 94 hollow-tipped expanding bullets.

Officers recovered webcam pictures Lyburd took of himself dressed for combat,
armed with the pistol and brandishing a knife.

In the deleted file he said: "You people ruined my whole life, don't expect me
to show mercy today. No-one disrespects me and gets away with it. I'll teach you
people a little lesson on respect with my 9mm jacketed hollow points."

Det Supt George Duff, who led the investigation, said Lyburd was a "dangerous
man who intended to cause serious harm".

"He at no point has shown any remorse for what he intended to do," he said.

Judge Paul Sloan QC commended the member of the public who alerted police to
Lyburd's behaviour.

He told Lyburd that, if they had not, "it was only a matter of time before you
would have put your plan into action.

"Your emotional coldness and detachment and your lack of empathy to others was
self-evident," he said.

Lyburd was warned the psychiatric evidence suggested it might be a "very long
time indeed" before he is considered safe enough to be released.

He laughed as he was taken away by police, telling officers they had saved lives
and prevented a massacre at the college.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Attack by Tebbit on 'terrorists pal' Jezza

BYLINE: STEVE HAWKES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 122 words


IRA bomb victim Norman Tebbit has slated terrorist "sympathiser" Jeremy Corbyn,
claiming he will crack under the strain of being Labour leader.

The Tory veteran said he was staggered the Opposition had elected someone
"openly sympathetic to every one of Britain's enemies".

He added Mr Corbyn - who wants to bring back nationalisation - "won't be able to
take the pressure of leadership". Lord Tebbit predicted Shadow Chancellor John
McDonnell would replace Mr Corbyn, 66, by the 2020 General Election.

He also dared them to pay their respects to late Tory MP Ian Gow, blown up by
the IRA in 1990.

Mr Corbyn had invited Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams to the Commons after the 1984
Brighton blast which injured Lord Tebbit.

The Sun Says: Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blast ... Lord Tebbit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2015 Sunday

Russian news agency says Syrian aircraft attack terrorist group HQ in Latakia

LENGTH: 136 words


Excerpt from report by RIA Novosti (part of the state-owned International News
Agency Rossiya Segodnya)

Beirut, 27 September: Aircraft of the Syrian Air Force have carried out an air
strike on the headquarters of the terrorist group Junud al-Quqaz [Soldiers of
the Caucasus] in the area of Al-Rawdah in the north of Latakia province.
Thirty-eight foreign mercenaries have been killed, a military source told RIA
Novosti on Sunday [27 September].

"The aircraft carried out missile strikes on the Junud al-Quqaz headquarters in
the area of Al-Rawdah. Thirty-eight terrorists were killed," the source told the
agency.

He said most of the militants were foreign mercenaries fighting against the
Syrian army. [Passage omitted: previously in Syria]

Source: RIA Novosti (MIA Rossiya Segodnya), Moscow, in Russian 1051 gmt 27 Sep
15

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:43:43

