



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1742
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:46:47
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 27, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

NAT'S MOTOR FIREBOMBED;
SICKENED ACTIVIS CTIVIST IN BLAZ LAZE TERROR OR ; Sinister £20k attack after
party bust-up

BYLINE: RUSSELL FINDLAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 323 words


A FORMER SNP activist claims his £20,000 car was firebombed after he fell out
with party officials.

Jim Cassidy's prized Nissan Qashqai was reduced to a blackened shell when it was
targeted outside his home as his family slept.

Cops were called in over the attack, which he says followed a wrangle over who
would fight the Airdrie and Shotts seat for the Nats at the General Election.

Two hooded men then allegedly turned up his house in Plains, Lanarkshire, and
warned him to stop "slandering" an unnamed person after he criticised the SNP.

Mr Cassidy, 45, said: "I raised serious concerns about the Airdrie branch, then
weeks later my car was set on fire. I think it was politically motivated."

The railway signalman resigned from the party after his SUV was burnt out in
January.

And the alleged threat came five months later, following a letter he wrote to a
local newspaper.

He said: "My 11-year-old daughter looked out and said it was men with hoods up.

"One of them walked in. I said he had the wrong house but he said it was a
warning, I'd better stop slandering a certain person.

"He closed the door and ran off.

The police told us to review our security so I got CCTV fitted." Mr Cassidy
backed Tommy Montgomery to contest the seat for the Nats in May's ballot.

But they and SNP councillor Alan Beveridge quit after Neil Gray was selected.

There is no suggestion Mr Gray, who won the seat from Labour's Pamela Nash, was
involved with or knew about the incidents.

Last month Mr Cassidy wrote an open letter to First Minister Nicola Sturgeon
telling of his fears.

He said in the blog: "Every time I publicly criticised goings-on in the SNP in
North Lanarkshire my property has been attacked or I have been threatened.

"My family and I have been living in fear for nine months." Police Scotland
said: "Inquiries were carried out after both incidents but no arrests were
made." No one from the SNP could comment last night.

russell.findlay@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESTROYED Nissan motor is burnt-out shellTHREATENED Jim told of visit
by hooded menWinner ... Neil Gray unseated Labour's Pamela Nash in SNP election
landslide

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 28, 2015 Monday

Article warns South Africa faces "real threat" of "lone wolf" terror attacks

LENGTH: 1413 words


Text of report by influential, privately-owned South African daily Business Day
website on 28 September

[Radicalised individuals acting on their own can easily slip under the
surveillance radar, writes Nick Piper]

The terrorism warning issued by the US embassy in Pretoria on 8 September, which
alluded to a potential attack against US interests on South African soil further
entrenches the idea that international Islamist extremist groups have a presence
or influence in SA [South Africa].

But in media reports and analyst discussions on this, the concept of the
self-radicalised individual has not been given enough coverage. This is
surprising given the exposure to this risk that SA faces.

Evidence of Islamist terrorist groups using SA as a safe haven has been around
for the past decade. Since 2003, there have been cases involving Al-Qa'idah
members using South African passports, and terrorism-related arrests of its
members who had spent time in the country.

Following the Al-Shabaab attack in 2013 at the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, it was
confirmed that Samantha Lewthwaite, widow of one of the 2005 London bombers and
alleged to be involved in the Nairobi attack, had been resident in SA.

In the past few months, State Security Agency secret report leaks suggest there
were foiled plots by Al-Qa'idah and Al-Shabaab to attack Jewish and US interests
in SA from 2007 to 2010.

This information came at about the same time as evidence emerged of South
Africans joining Islamic State in Syria and other parts of the group's
self-proclaimed caliphate.

Despite all of this presumed activity of Islamist extremist groups in SA, there
has yet to be an attack. This points somewhat to the ability of the intelligence
agencies, together with those of other countries such as Israel and the US, to
monitor such activity, and to SA's generally neutral foreign policy standing.

Arguably more importantly, though, the lack of an attack may indicate the
reluctance on the part of these groups to bite the proverbial hand that feeds
them.

Using SA as a safe haven, and as a source of travel documents and funding, is
more valuable than what would be gained from an attack on her soil.

The motivations and incentives change dramatically with self-radicalised
individuals, who are influenced by an extremist organization to act in
accordance with its goals, despite having no tangible connection with it. When a
self-radicalised individual stages a terrorist attack, it is often done on his
or her own in a "lone-wolf attack".

These attacks are not a new occurrence, but there has been an increase in the
number of lone-wolf incidents globally in the past two decades. These types of
attacks account for the majority of successful and foiled terrorist acts in the
US since 11 September 2001 and there has been a discernible uptick in such
attacks elsewhere.

Examples include a shooting at the Jewish Museum in Brussels in May last year; a
hatchet attack on police officers in New York in October last year; two attacks
in France in December last year, one against a police station in Tours and the
other involving a driver targeting pedestrians in Dijon; and, later that month,
the hostage crisis at the Lindt Cafe in Sydney.

Much of the reason for the increase in lone-wolf incidents is the proliferation
of social media and the opportunity it presents to connect extremists with the
impressionable. Islamist extremist groups have also actively advocated lone-wolf
attacks in recent years.

Facing existential threats from state militaries in certain parts of the world,
these groups have increasingly endorsed what has come to be known as global
grassroots jihadism. Al-Qa'idah's Inspire magazine is aimed at advancing this
strategy of terrorism and, in September last year, Islamic State called for
supporters to seek out "the disbelieving" and kill them by any means possible.
It has also advocated attacks by small groups of supporters outside of its
caliphate in the Middle East.

Countries that are belligerent to extremist groups face the greatest risk of a
lone-wolf attack, but the threat is global.

SA is not exempt from attacks for three main reasons: there is evidence of
radicalisation in SA; the lone-wolf attacker does not necessarily follow a
rational motivation and incentive structure; and such an individual is very
difficult to catch.

Radicalisation in SA is not unprecedented. Mustafa Mohamed (also known as
Mustafa Jonker) was arrested in 2008 after a raid on his Muizenberg house in
which police confiscated chemicals that could, they argued, be used to make
bombs; instructions on how to make explosives; and propaganda material from
jihadi websites.

The case against Mohamed fell flat after the state refused to divulge the
information that prompted the raid, but it is cited by Prof Hussein Solomon in
Jihad: A South African Perspective as evidence of radical Islamism in SA.

Solomon's book, which courted a large degree of controversy in the Muslim
community, also used the example of a young boy dressed up as a suicide bomber
at a protest gathering in 2004 outside the Israeli Embassy in Pretoria after the
assassination of Hamas founder, Sheikh Agmed Yassin.

De Wet Potgieter, in his book Black Widow White Widow, also deals with
radicalised individuals in SA.

The concern of Solomon and Potgieter is that there may be South Africans who
have been radicalised by Islamic State or another Islamist extremist group but
who do not have the resources to leave the country to join an extremist
organization.

For these individuals, acting on behalf of the group in SA presents an
opportunity for them to display their support for the ideals of the group.

Islamist radicalisation is by no means an established phenomenon in SA, but it
should equally be remembered that the nature of a lone-wolf attack is such that
it takes just one self-radicalised individual, with enough necessary skills, to
stage an attack.

These individuals often demonstrate some degree of mental illness or have been
brainwashed, which means that an attack might take place without a clear
motivation or incentive.

SA may seem like an unlikely target for a terrorist attack based on our rather
neutral foreign policy and the benevolence of SA's Muslim community, but one
individual may see otherwise and decide to act on his or her extremist
disposition.

Lone-wolf assailants can be motivated by other causes besides Islamist
extremism. One repeatedly cited motivation for lone-wolf attacks is right-wing
nationalism.

Anders Breivik, responsible for the July 2011 attacks that killed dozens in
Norway, is one such example. Like Islamist extremism, right-wing extremism is
not a phenomenon in SA, but certainly exists in isolated cases.

Look no further than the Boeremag treason trial. Institutions such as the
Kommandokorps and the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging harbour extremist views and
propagate these to their followers.

It is worth reiterating that a widespread movement of extremists is not a
pre-requisite for a lone-wolf attack; it takes just one suitably skilled,
self-radicalised individual to carry it out.

The person intent on staging a lone-wolf attack, for whatever reason, is
notoriously difficult to catch.

If disciplined, such a person can plan an attack without communicating to
anybody and does not rely on others to keep their mouths shut.

The intention of the self-radicalised individual often remains unknown for
longer than it does when members of an established terrorist group demonstrate
the same signs of radicalisation.

All of this makes it especially difficult for SA's already-strained intelligence
and security force institutions to prevent an attack before it can occur.

Although not likely to be regular or major, an isolated lone-wolf attack in SA
in the near future should be considered equally as likely as an attack by a
major international extremist group.

In addition to focusing on terrorist organizations and their presence in the
country, security and intelligence forces -and the civil population -need to be
sharpened to self-radicalisation and the potential of a lone-wolf attack.

This is especially the case as the foiling of lone-wolf attacks in the US and
other countries has often come down to the efforts of lower-levels of the
security forces -a police officer who notices suspicious behaviour in someone,
or civilians where someone picks up the signs of self-radicalisation in a
community or on an internet forum.

Source: Business Day website, Johannesburg, in English 28 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 28, 2015 Monday 8:50 AM GMT

Belfast brothers tell of terror at mob attack on cereal cafe in London

BYLINE: By Rebecca Black

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 469 words


The Belfast twins who set up a cereal cafe in London have spoken of the terror
as mobs of "anti-gentrification" demonstrators attacked their shop.

Banners were held aloft, cereal thrown at the windows of the Brick Lane premises
as well as pigs' heads and flaming torches being brandished.

Alan and Gary Keery told the Belfast Telegraph that when they originally opened
the shop, they wanted to take customers back to the comforting days of
childhood.

But instead yesterday children were among customers cowering in terror in the
shop as the door had to be barricaded against the protesters.

Alan Keery angrily hit out at the protesters, saying he and his brother had
started up a business out of nothing.

"There were children there - they were terrified," he told the Evening Standard.

"The staff were absolutely terrified. It was an angry mob throwing paint at the
windows. They had torches and pigs' heads.

"There were people shouting about gentrification and taking back east London.

"They'd brought cereal and they were throwing it at the shop.

"I think it's an absolute joke, a bunch of people attacking us. We're a small
business. There's other big chain places around Shoreditch - me and my brother
started a business out of absolutely nothing and we're trying to grow it.

"We're being targeted as the poster boys of gentrification and that's not our
fault.

"London as a city is growing and Shoreditch is no different. It's just a growing
city - people are going to open businesses and try things and try to better
themselves."

Mr Keery said they had received some abuse on Twitter, but nothing on this
scale, which he described as feeling like a witch-hunt.

"I can't agree with what they're doing, the way they are dealing with
gentrification," he said

"It feels like it's been taken back to the Dark Ages - an angry mob with fire
-it's a bit of a witch-hunt.

"There's paint thrown at the front and they tried to break the windows.

"They were trying to bash the door down - the customers had to barricade the
door.

"We get a bit of hate on Twitter but never anything like this."

The Keery twins spent 15 months working on their unique business venture,
securing funding and premises and sourcing cereals from America, France,
Australia, South Africa and South Korea before opening in December 2014.

They were initially forced to used their own apartment for storage.

The "light bulb" moment for the idea was sparked by a mid-afternoon craving for
cereal and being unable to find any.

"There is so much choice for eating out -pizza, Mexican, Chinese, sushi - and
yet all I wanted that day was a bowl of cereal and I couldn't get it," they told
the Belfast Telegraph.

"The more we thought about it and talked about it, the more we thought it could
work as a business. Once we decided to do it, that was it and we just went for
it."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           September 28, 2015 Monday

Authorities Warn Of Possible Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 99  words



HIGHLIGHT: The US and Australian embassies in Malaysia have warned of a possible
terrorist attack in the country, reports news.com.au.


News: The US and Australian embassies in Malaysia have warned of a possible
terrorist attack in the country, reports news.com.au. The warning has been
issued specifically for the Alor Street hawker area in the capital city of Kuala
Lumpur. The Malaysian police have been on high alert following the arrest of 10
suspected militants in several raids across the country in the past month. The
suspects were believed to be plotting an attack in Malaysia and collecting funds
to assist Islamic State members wanting to travel to Syria, stated Malaysian
Inspector-General of police Khalid Abu Bakar.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           September 28, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Revenge attack terror of burglar death family;
RAID PROBE SCOTS LIVING IN FEAR ; Taylors go into hiding from crook's pals

BYLINE: ADAM ASPINALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 390 words


THE Scottish family being probed over the death of a burglar at their Algarve
home are "living in fear" of revenge attacks.

Trevor and Jill Taylor and their son Scott, 31, have been in hiding since
finding Paulo Brito in their £1.5million house with the keys to their Jaguar.

Trevor, 60, and Scott restrained him in a chokehold after mum Jill, 59, raised
the alarm. Brito, 35, died at the scene early last Sunday.

A source close to the Taylors said: "I spoke to the family the morning after and
they told me in no uncertain terms they were frightened.

"They're not worried about the Portuguese police investigation; they have lived
in the country for years, so trust them.

caReeR cRooK "But they are scared Brito's friends in the criminal underworld
will come looking for revenge. They are living in fear."

The Taylors moved to Portugal after selling their amusement arcade in
Linlithgow. They are members of a showman family who have run fairgrounds for
generations.

They have not been seen at the house in Vilamoura, Portugal, all week.

Brito, from nearby Quarteira, had served eight years for violent robberies. He
was released from prison less than a year ago and was on parole. Portuguese
reports said police had told public prosecutors they suspected Brito was
reoffending.

But his sister Ana Brito said: "He didn't try to kill anyone. He did not have a
weapon."

The Taylors have been quizzed by police but not arrested. Trevor and Scott, a
golf instructor, have been made arguidos, which means they are considered a
suspect but have not been formally accused.

Their movements in and out of Portugal can be restricted during the
investigation.

Toxicology results could take weeks, but reports said a preliminary postmortem
indicated Brito died of asphyxiation.

Paulo Brito Under Portuguese law, people are allowed to use self-defence to
protect their property - but it must be proportional to the danger they face.

Trevor's brother Winstan, 74, from Glasgow, said last week: "I'm shocked to hear
this and I can't believe Trevor or Scott could intentionally hurt someone.

"I'm sure when the facts come out they will be cleared. I hope so.

"These are not the type of people that would get involved in anything untoward.
I have had a laugh before with Scott saying that he is soft. This is terrible
news."

They're scared of Brito's underworld friends A SOURCE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAREER CROOK Paulo BritoSHOCKED Trevor, Scott and Jill disturbed
housebreaker in their Algarve homeBURGLED The Taylors' villa in Vilamoura that
was targeted by Brito last weekend

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     September 28, 2015 Monday 12:03 AM GMT

France launches first airstrikes against Isis in Syria;
Expansion of airstrikes from Iraq defended by French president François Hollande
as self-defence following series of terrorist attacks in France

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 717 words


France has carried out its first airstrikes against Islamic State (Isis) in
Syria after nearly three weeks of surveillance flights.

The French president, François Hollande, said the operation to "fight the
terrorist threat" was coordinated with partners in the region.

"France struck in Syria this morning an Islamic State training camp which
threatened the security of our country," he told reporters at the United
Nations, adding that six French jets had struck the Isis camp and warned of more
strikes in coming weeks.

The targets were identified during surveillance missions conducted by French
jets since 8 September.

The French government has insisted that although it is part of the US-led
coalition, France will decide who and what to attack independently.

The airstrikes mark a turnaround in the French approach to the Syrian civil war.
The president's office said: "We will strike any time our national security is
at stake."

Hollande announced earlier this month that France would carry out surveillance
with a view to eventual airstrikes against Isis, citing self-defence as his
rationale. The decision came as the refugee crisis and the photo of drowned
three-year-old Alan Kurdi sparked shock across the world. But France's decision
was influenced more by last month's foiled attack by a suspected jihadi gunman
who opened fire on a packed Amsterdam-Paris train.

As France faces what the government says is a high-level terrorist threat on
home soil, and is still coming to term with January's terrorist attacks by
gunmen, who left 17 dead after targeting the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
and a Paris kosher supermarket, the president has sought to send an important
message to his electorate that France would be ready to strike back if there was
any terrorist attempt on France.

The surveillance operation in Syria over the past weeks has been described by
the government as targeting those who could be planning terrorist attacks on
France.

The move to airstrikes shows how France's strategy on Syria has evolved. Until
now, France had been launching airstrikes on Isis extremists only in Iraq as
part of the US-led coalition, and had resisted airstrikes in Syria because it
did not want to be seen to be strengthening President Bashar al-Assad's hold on
the country.

France, the former colonial power after the Ottoman Empire broke up, has been
one of the most outspoken western powers on Syria from the start of the crisis.
Two years ago France was pushing for military action against Assad, resolving to
punish Damascus over its use of chemical weapons on the Syrian people, but that
move faltered without an international coalition of support.

This month the French president ruled out sending ground troops to Syria and
said nothing should be done that could strengthen Assad or help him remain in
power. "In the end, Assad must go," Hollande said.

In his statement on Sunday, Hollande said: "Civilian populations must be
protected from all forms of violence, that of IS [Islamic State] and other
terrorist groups but also the murderous bombardments of Bashar Assad."

Polls show that a majority of the French public favours military action in
Syria. But at the French foreign ministry the emphasis is on politics and
diplomacy as the only possible solution to the crisis.

The announcement of operations in Syria came the day before Hollande joins world
leaders for the start of the UN general assembly in New York, where the
four-year Syrian war is expected to be at the centre of debate.

Iran and Russia have given strong backing to Assad, who is regarded by the US
and European countries including France as the instigator of the civil war,
which has left an estimated 125,000 to 330,000 people dead and large parts of
his country in the hands of Isis. Russia, meanwhile, has alarmed the west by
strengthening its military presence in Syria in recent weeks.

On Saturday the US secretary of state, John Kerry, met his Iranian counterpart,
Mohammad Javad Zarif, to discuss Syria. Washington refuses to accept a peace
process that would leave Assad in power and so has backed and armed small
"moderate" rebel groups. But that strategy appeared to be in tatters after the
Pentagon admitted that the latest US-trained fighters to cross into Syria had
given a quarter of their equipment to al-Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 28, 2015 Monday 4:54 PM GMT

Is this the most dangerous holiday in the world? The daring tourists who defy
threat of terror attacks and explore Mogadishu's beaches, markets and landmarks
with heavily-armed guards

BYLINE: CHRIS KITCHING FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 1211 words



     ·    Travel operator Untamed Borders charges £900 (excluding airfare) per
          person for 48-hour trips to Somalia's capital
     ·    Small groups of holidaymakers are accompanied by four heavily-armed
          guards and a translator at all times
     ·    Tourists are given opportunities to interact with locals, but some
          spots are so unsafe they cannot exit the vehicle


Despite the constant threat of terror attacks, kidnapping and murder, the most
daring tourists are queuing to explore bustling markets and idyllic beaches in
one of the most volatile cities in the world.

US tourist Mike Ogden, 22, is one of a handful who have paid £900 to spend 48
hours in Mogadishu, Somalia (excluding airfare), where he was outnumbered by
heavily-armed security guards who were assigned to protect him at all times.

He frequently encountered people who were openly carrying firearms on the
streets, experienced a few nerve-wracking moments after his car broke down, and
flew out of the capital's airport while authorities raced to thwart a bomb plot.

Scroll down for video

Mr Ogden, a custom woodworker from Nashua, New Hampshire, booked the trip with
Untamed Borders, an adventure travel firm which specialises in individual or
small group trips to some of the most dangerous or unusual places on Earth.

Even though the US and other Western countries advise against travel to Somalia,
in the horn of Africa, Mr Ogden decided to visit last March after finding the
itinerary on the internet, and he was confident he would be safe while being
accompanied by a four-man, two-vehicle armed escort.

He told MailOnline Travel: 'I knew I would be going to a more dangerous place
for foreigners, however the precautions taken pre-trip and on-trip were good
enough that I felt all realistic safety precautions were in place.

'Dangerous is a relative term in Somalia. Ordinary mishaps can be dangerous in
Somalia, and by the same token what we consider dangerous is routine, such as
hearing AK47s at night.'

Despite the high threat of terrorism or violence, he didn't encounter any major
problems during the two-day trip, although there were some tense moments when
the guide's car broke down.

Mr Ogden said: 'Our car stalled at one point in the middle of a marketplace
intersection, which is a major security concern because we are sitting ducks.

'Our guards surrounded the car and ordered everyone else to keep moving, and
they pushed the car out of the intersection and got it started again.'

The night before he flew out of Somalia the country's government was tipped off
about an imminent terror attack, with the airport being the most likely target,
he said.

Set on the Indian Ocean, Mogadishu went into lockdown and the military presence
doubled as authorities worked to stop the attack.

Mr Ogden said: 'All the intersections had security checkpoints, there were tanks
patrolling the main roads. We got into the airport after a lot of security and
took off fine, but during my layover I checked the Somali news and learned that
they had caught a car bomb trying to get into the airport, and the thwarted the
attack, luckily.'

Few Western tourists dare to visit Mogadishu, with terror groups making repeated
threats against Westerners and those working for Western organisations.

But Mr Ogden said his visit was more than worth it, as he was able to tour
bustling markets, bullet-scarred buildings, picturesque beaches, and sights such
as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, the national stadium, the crumbling Italian
colonial waterfront, and Mogadishu's iconic lighthouse.

He said: 'I really enjoyed the serenity of Jazeera Beach, a bit south of
Mogadishu. It was a nice chance to interact with the handful of local fishermen
there, something that isn't nearly as possible in Mogadishu itself.

'You cannot stay in one location more than a few minutes, and in some locations
you cannot get out of the vehicle.

'Another great experience I had was when I went out at night to get my haircut
once, which was a great time to hang out with the barber and in a small way
support a local business.'

When it's time to eat, guests are taken to local restaurants, where they dine on
everything from lobster to camel burgers.

It may be the most dangerous organised tour in the world, but those such as Mr
Ogden, who have accepted the risk and become one of the few tourists that locals
will ever meet, say they were left with lasting memories and a new take on the
war-torn capital.

Mr Ogden added: 'Ranking a trip is difficult. I have been to about 40 countries
and people ask me all the time which is my favourite.

'There isn't really a strict answer, but I do have to say that the resilience of
the Somali people and the belief that they will have continuous peace some day
is a stronger passion than I have ever seen before in others.'

Terry Last, a Londoner who visited Mogadishu last January, said he spent some
time in a police cell while his visa was sorted out, but did not have any other
problems.

The 52-year-old retired clerical worker said he did not feel unsafe and
recommended the trip to a friend, who visited a few months later.

Mr Last said he was shocked to encounter so many locals who had previously lived
in the UK.

He said: 'I had no pre-conceived ideas as to what to expect. I saw plenty of
guns, as expected, but what did surprise me was that all the locals spoke
Cockney English and clearly had been in London for extended periods.'

Although the city lacks conventional tourist attractions, Untamed Borders ran
its first trip to Mogadishu in 2012, a year after the African Union liberated
the capital from the Al-Shabaab militant group, which is aligned with Al-Qaeda.

The travel firm has guided six trips this year on a request basis, and may be
the only firm offering organised tours.

Co-founder Kausar Hussain said: 'We have not met any others. There are people
that arrange travel and logistics for journalists and development workers in
Mogadishu but I think we are the only company that advertises commercial trips
for non-business visitors.

'We take a maximum of three people per trip for security reasons. Big groups
create a greater footprint and a greater target.'

Guests are accompanied by a translator and given opportunities to interact with
locals, but less so than on other trips offered by Untamed Borders due to the
heightened state of security.

Mr Hussain said: 'When out and about in the city the security guards mean that
interaction is less than we would like.

'However we ensure that the guests also spend time in places that are secure
where they can mingle.

'There are not all that many foreigners seen in Mogadishu so the guests are a
bit of a novelty. The overwhelming reaction is positive.'

Mr Hussain said guests are able to see positive sides to Mogadishu and leave
with a different perspective.

He added: 'They see that Somalia is not just a failed state. There is a
positivity to modern Somalia, slowly starting to find its feet after decades of
war. They also see some amazing things.

'For example, most people use phone banking for paying all their bills and often
buy goods by transferring their mobile phone balance to the vendor's phone.

'In this country where mobile connections are quite good but the banking system
and finance systems are still bad they are probably the world's first cashless
economy.'

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 28, 2015 Monday 1:54 PM GMT

Is this the most dangerous holiday in the world? The daring tourists who defy
threat of terror attacks and explore Mogadishu's beaches, markets and landmarks
with heavily-armed guards

BYLINE: CHRIS KITCHING FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 1108 words



     ·    Travel operator Untamed Borders charges £900 (excluding airfare) per
          person for 48-hour trips to Somalia's capital
     ·    Small groups of holidaymakers are accompanied by four heavily-armed
          guards and a translator at all times
     ·    Tourists are given opportunities to interact with locals, but some
          spots are so unsafe they cannot exit the vehicle


Despite the constant threat of terror attacks, kidnapping and murder, the most
daring tourists are queuing to explore bustling markets and idyllic beaches in
one of the most volatile cities in the world.

US tourist Mike Ogden, 22, is one of a handful who have paid £900 to spend 48
hours in Mogadishu, Somalia (excluding airfare), where he was outnumbered by
heavily-armed security guards who were assigned to protect him at all times.

He frequently encountered people who were openly carrying firearms on the
streets, experienced a few nerve-wracking moments after his car broke down, and
flew out of the capital's airport while authorities raced to thwart a bomb plot.

Scroll down for video

Mr Ogden, a custom woodworker from Nashua, New Hampshire, booked the trip with
Untamed Borders, an adventure travel firm which specialises in individual or
small group trips to some of the most dangerous or unusual places on Earth.

Even though the US and other Western countries advise against travel to Somalia,
in the horn of Africa, Mr Ogden decided to visit last March after finding the
itinerary on the internet, and he was confident he would be safe while being
accompanied by a four-man, two-vehicle armed escort.

He told MailOnline Travel: 'I knew I would be going to a more dangerous place
for foreigners, however the precautions taken pre-trip and on-trip were good
enough that I felt all realistic safety precautions were in place.

'Dangerous is a relative term in Somalia. Ordinary mishaps can be dangerous in
Somalia, and by the same token what we consider dangerous is routine, such as
hearing AK47s at night.'

Despite the high threat of terrorism or violence, he didn't encounter any major
problems during the two-day trip, although there were some tense moments when
the guide's car broke down.

Mr Ogden said: 'Our car stalled at one point in the middle of a marketplace
intersection, which is a major security concern because we are sitting ducks.

'Our guards surrounded the car and ordered everyone else to keep moving, and
they pushed the car out of the intersection and got it started again.'

The night before he flew out of Somalia the country's government was tipped off
about an imminent terror attack, with the airport being the most likely target,
he said.

Set on the Indian Ocean, Mogadishu went into lockdown and the military presence
doubled as authorities worked to stop the attack.

Mr Ogden said: 'All the intersections had security checkpoints, there were tanks
patrolling the main roads. We got into the airport after a lot of security and
took off fine, but during my layover I checked the Somali news and learned that
they had caught a car bomb trying to get into the airport, and the thwarted the
attack, luckily.'

Few Western tourists dare to visit Mogadishu, with terror groups making repeated
threats against Westerners and those working for Western organisations.

But Mr Ogden said his visit was more than worth it, as he was able to tour
bustling markets, bullet-scarred buildings, picturesque beaches, and sights such
as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, the national stadium, the crumbling Italian
colonial waterfront, and Mogadishu's iconic lighthouse.

He said: 'I really enjoyed the serenity of Jazeera Beach, a bit south of
Mogadishu. It was a nice chance to interact with the handful of local fishermen
there, something that isn't nearly as possible in Mogadishu itself.

'You cannot stay in one location more than a few minutes, and in some locations
you cannot get out of the vehicle.

'Another great experience I had was when I went out at night to get my haircut
once, which was a great time to hang out with the barber and in a small way
support a local business.'

When it's time to eat, guests are taken to local restaurants, where they dine on
everything from lobster to camel burgers.

It may be the most dangerous organised tour in the world, but those such as Mr
Ogden, who have accepted the risk and become one of the few tourists that locals
will ever meet, say they were left with lasting memories and a new take on the
war-torn capital.

Mr Ogden added: 'Ranking a trip is difficult. I have been to about 40 countries
and people ask me all the time which is my favourite.

'There isn't really a strict answer, but I do have to say that the resilience of
the Somali people and the belief that they will have continuous peace some day
is a stronger passion than I have ever seen before in others.'

Although the city lacks conventional tourist attractions, Untamed Borders ran
its first trip to Mogadishu in 2012, a year after the African Union liberated
the capital from the Al-Shabaab militant group, which is aligned with Al-Qaeda.

The travel firm has guided six trips this year on a request basis, and may be
the only firm offering organised tours.

Co-founder Kausar Hussain said: 'We have not met any others. There are people
that arrange travel and logistics for journalists and development workers in
Mogadishu but I think we are the only company that advertises commercial trips
for non-business visitors.

'We take a maximum of three people per trip for security reasons. Big groups
create a greater footprint and a greater target.'

Guests are accompanied by a translator and given opportunities to interact with
locals, but less so than on other trips offered by Untamed Borders due to the
heightened state of security.

Mr Hussain said: 'When out and about in the city the security guards mean that
interaction is less than we would like.

'However we ensure that the guests also spend time in places that are secure
where they can mingle.

'There are not all that many foreigners seen in Mogadishu so the guests are a
bit of a novelty. The overwhelming reaction is positive.'

Mr Hussain said guests are able to see positive sides to Mogadishu and leave
with a different perspective.

He added: 'They see that Somalia is not just a failed state. There is a
positivity to modern Somalia, slowly starting to find its feet after decades of
war. They also see some amazing things.

'For example, most people use phone banking for paying all their bills and often
buy goods by transferring their mobile phone balance to the vendor's phone.

'In this country where mobile connections are quite good but the banking system
and finance systems are still bad they are probably the world's first cashless
economy.'

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 8:10 PM GMT

Scots jihadi bride Aqsa Mahmood has assets frozen and a travel ban slapped on
her;
THE 21-year-old, from Glasgow, is suspected of leading recruitment drives for
so-called Islamic State and plotting terror attacks against the UK.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 510 words


THE FORMER private schoolgirl who fled Scotland to marry a terrorist in Syria is
among four British jihads facing international restrictions after being added to
a danger-list by the UK Government.

Aqsa Mahmood, 21, from Glasgow, is suspected of leading recruitment drives for
so-called Islamic State and plotting terror attacks against the UK and elsewhere
from a strongholds in the Middle-Eastern country.

The ex-Glasgow University student been added to a United Nations list which
subjects her to a global asset freeze and travel ban.

The move is also designed as a deterrent to dissuade would-be fighters.

The other Brits added to the list are Omar Hussain from High Wycombe, Nasser
Muthana from Cardiff, Aqsa and Sally-Anne Jones from Chatham, in Kent.

In pictures: Online postings by student Aqsa Mahmood who went to Craigholme
School

A fifth is still to be approved and added by the UN Committee but the UK
Government has warned more will follow from the 700 thought to have travelled
out to the region to join the Islamist extremists.

Mahmood left her family in Glasgow and fled to Syria to join ISIS in November
2013 and marry one of their fighters.

She's used the internet to promote the terror group and is currently at the
centre of a Metropolitan Police investigation over claims she's tried to recruit
other young British Muslim women online.

She is thought to be a key figure in the al-Khanssaa brigade - a female brigade
in Raqqa which was established by IS to enforce Sharia law.

Video: Aqsa Mahmood press conference with Aamer Anwar

This is the first time since 2006 that the UK has sought to place its own
nationals under the United Nations sanctions regime set up to tackle suspected
al Qaida terrorists and extended to IS.

Detailed dossiers of evidence were submitted to show they were "participating in
the financing, planning, facilitating, preparing, or perpetrating of acts or
activities" related to IS.

Uploading bomb-making instructions to social media was among the activities.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The Prime Minister has been absolutely clear
that we will do all we can to stop British citizens from going to fight for ISIL
and that foreign fighters should face consequences for their actions.

TIMELINE: Rise of ISIS in Syria, Iraq

"As well as the domestic measures we have introduced, such as the power to seize
passports, these sanctions are a powerful tool - freezing an individual's assets
and imposing a global travel ban on them.

"It also sends a clear deterrent message to those thinking of going to fight for
ISIL. We will continue to consider whether more individuals should be subjected
to these sanctions."

Three British nationals were already among the 231 individuals and 72
organisations on the UN list.

Mahmood, from the Pollokshields area of the city, became obsessed with Syria
after witnessing civil war break out in 2013.

Last September her parents Muzaffar, 51, and Khalida, 43, made an emotional plea
for her to return .

They revealed how she'd turned into a "bedroom radical" and accused her of
betraying the family.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 3:14 PM GMT

Now Carly Fiorina says she's pro-torture as she defends WATERBOARDING and says
it helped with 'keeping our nation safe' after the 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4754 words



     ·    Fiorina insists waterboarding was justified 'when there was no other
          way to get information that was necessary' after the 9/11 terror
          attacks
     ·    A comprehensive Senate Intelligence Committee investigation found that
          it was 'brutal' and produced mixed results at best
     ·    Fiorina said she helped rush computer servers to the NSA after 9/11
          when she was at the helm of Hewlett-Packard
     ·    That hardware was used to implement a wide-ranging warrantless
          wiretapping program that turned the agency into a lightning rod


Carly Fiorina has come out in favor of waterboarding, the 9/11-era 'enhanced
interrogation' technique that a Senate committee last year called 'brutal' and a
form of torture.

'I believe that all of the evidence is very clear - that waterboarding was used
in a very small handful of cases [and] was supervised by medical personnel in
every one of those cases,' the Republican presidential candidate said in an
interview with Yahoo News.

'And I also believe that waterboarding was used when there was no other way to
get information that was necessary,' she said.

Waterboarding involves pouring water into a cloth placed over an interrogation
subject's face in order to block his breathing and simulate drowning.

The Senate Intelligence Committee completed a 6,000-page report  on
waterboarding in 2014, but it remains classified.

A 525-page unclassified summary declares that the technique was 'not an
effective means of acquiring intelligence or gaining cooperation from detainees'
in the war on terror.

Fiorina, 61, dismissed the exhaustive examination, calling the report
'disingenuous' and 'a shame.'

It 'undermined the morale of a whole lot of people who dedicated their lives to
keeping the country safe,' she said.

The former CEO of Hewlett-Packard is tied for third place among Republican
primary voters, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released
Sunday morning.

She told Yahoo that while she ran that company, it helped the controversial
National Security Agency with computing power to help it analyze the information
it collected.

'I felt it was my duty to help, and so we did,' she said.

'They were ramping up a whole set of programs and needed a lot of data crunching
capability to try and monitor a whole set of threats.'

That relationship dated from the heady first days after the 9/11 terror attacks
in 2001, when NSA director Michael Hayden phoned her to ask for HP computer
servers.

Although Fiorina was in the dark at the time, the NSA used her company's gear to
put its warrantless wiretapping program into place. Hayden got 'trucks full of
computer servers,' according to Yahoo.

He later became director of the CIA and named Fiorina to cair an external
advisory board made up of former senior intelligence officials, military
generals and business executives.

Her advice included tips on how the agency could function as a full-service
espionage shop at a time when government leaks were rampant and the American
public expected greater openness from its spies.

'One of the things that I advised the NSA and CIA to do is to be as transparent
as possible about as much as possible - because transparency reassures people,'
Fiorina told Yahoo.

'Intelligence agencies that engage in covert activity need to be very creative
about how they can be transparent while not jeopardizing our personnel and
sources and methods.'

As one example, she cited a sprawling NSA data-storage campus under construction
near Salt Lake City, Utah.

'People need to understand why - what is that for?' Fiorina said 'I think many
people will be reassured.'

THE 2016 FIELD: WHO'S IN, WHO'S QUIT AND WHO'S STILL THINKING IT OVER

A whopping 20 people from America's two major political parties are candidates
in the 2016 presidential election.

The field includes two women, an African-American and two Latinos. All but one
in that group - Hillary Clinton - are Republicans.

At 15 candidates, the GOP field is without two early dropouts but still deeper
than ever after one current and one former governor bowed out.

A few Democrats are still assessing their chances at succeeding in a much
smaller group of five that includes a former secretary of state and a current
senator.

REPUBLICANS IN THE RACE

Jeb Bush  Former Florida governor

Age on Election Day: 63

Religion: Catholic

Base: Moderates

Résumé: Former Florida governor and secretary of state. Former co-chair of the
Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy.

Education: B.A. University of Texas at Austin.

Family: Married to Columba Bush (1974), with three adult children. Noelle Bush
has made news with her struggle with drug addiction, and related arrests. George
P. Bush was elected Texas land commissioner in 2014. Jeb's father George H.W.
Bush was the 41st President of the United States, and his brother George W. Bush
was number 43.

Claim to fame: Jeb was an immensely popular governor with strong economic and
jobs credentials. He is also one of just two GOP candidates who is fluent in
Spanish.

Achilles heel: Bush has angered conservatives with his permissive positions on
illegal immigration (saying some border-crossing is 'an act of love) and
common-core education standards. His last name could also be a liability with
voters who fear establishing a family dynasty in the White House.

Chris Christie     New Jersey governor

Age on Election Day: 54

Religion:Catholic

Base: Establishment-minded conservatives

Résumé: Governor of New Jersey. Former U.S. Attorney for the District of New
Jersey. Former Morris County freeholder and lobbyist.

Governor of New Jersey. Former U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey.
Former Morris County freeholder. Former statehouse lobbyist.

Education: B.A. University of Delaware, Newark, J.D. Seton Hall University.

Family: Married to Mary Pat Foster (1986) with four children.

Claim to fame: Pugnacious and unapologetic, Christie once told a heckler to 'sit
down and shut up' and brings a brash style to everything he does. That includes
the post-9/11 criminal prosecutions of terror suspects that made his reputation
as a hard-charger.

Achilles heel: Christie is often accused of embracing an ego-driven and
needlessly abrasive style. His administration continues to operate under a
'Bridgegate' cloud: At least two aides have been indicted in an alleged scheme
to shut down lanes leading to the George Washington Bridge as political
retribution for a mayor who refused to endorse the governor's re-election.

Carly Fiorina  Former tech CEO

Age on Election Day: 62

Religion:      Episcopalian

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: Former CEO of Hewett-Packard. Former group president of Lucent
Technologies. Former U.S. Senate candidate in California.

Education: B.A. Stanford University. UCLA School of Law (did not finish). M.B.A.
University of Maryland. M.Sci. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Family: Married to Frank Fiorina (1985), with one adult step-daughter and
another who is deceased. She has two step-grandchildren. Divorced from Todd
Bartlem (1977-1984).

Claim to fame: Fiorina was the first woman to lead a Fortune 20 company,
something that could provide ammunition against the Democratic Party's drive to
make Hillary Clinton the first female president. She is also the only woman in
the 2016 GOP field, making her the one Republican who can't be accused of
sexism.

Achilles heel: Fiorina's unceremonious firing by HP's board has led to questions
about her management and leadership styles. And her only political experience
has been a failed Senate bid in 2010 against Barbara Boxer.

Lindsey Graham South Carolina senator

Age on Election Day: 61

Religion:        Southern Baptist

Base: Otherwise moderate war hawks

Résumé: U.S. senator. Retired Air Force Reserves colonel. Former congressman.
Former South Carolina state representative.

Education: B.A. University of South Carolina. J.D. University of South Carolina
Law School.

Family: Never married. Raised his sister Darline after their parents died while
he was a college student and she was 13.

Claim to fame: Graham is a hawk's hawk, arguing consistently for greater
intervention in the Middle East, once arguing in favor of pre-emptive military
strikes against Iran. His influence was credited for pushing President George W.
Bush to institute the 2007 military 'surge' in Iraq.

Achilles heel: Some of his critics have taken to call him 'Grahamnesty,' citing
his participating in a 2013 'gang of eight' strategy to approve an Obama-favored
immigration bill. He has also aroused the ire of conservative Republicans by
supporting global warming legislation and voting for some of the president's
judicial nominees.

Bobby Jindal  Louisiana governor

Age on Election Day: 45

Religion: Catholic

Base: Social conservatives

Résumé: Governor of Louisiana. Former congressman. Former Assistant Secretary of
Health and Human Services for Planning and Evaluation. Former Secretary of the
Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals.

Education: B. Sci. Brown University. M.Litt. New College at Oxford University

Family: Married to Supriya Jolly (1997), with three children, each of whom has
an Indian first name and an American middle name. Bobby Jindal's given name is
Piyush.

Claim to fame: Jindal's main source of national attention has been his strident
opposition to federal-level 'Common Core' education standards, which included a
federal lawsuit that a judge dismissed in late March. He is also outspoken on
the religious-freedom issues involved in mainstreaming gay marriage into the
lives of American Christians.

Achilles heel: During his first term as governor, Jindal signed a science
education law that requires schools to present alternatives to the theory of
evolution, including religious creationism. His staunch defense of businesses
that want to steer clear of providing services to same-sex couples at their
weddings will win points among evangelicals but alienate others.

George Pataki Former New York governor

Age on Election Day: 71

Religion: Catholic

Base: Centrists

Résumé: Former governor of New York. Former New York state senator and state
assemblyman. Former mayor of Peekskill, NY.

Education: B.A. Yale University. J.D. Columbia Law School.

Family: Married to Libby Rowland (1973), with four adult children.

Claim to fame: Pataki was just the third Republican governor in New York's
history, winning an improbable victory over three-term incumbent Mario Cuomo in
1994. He was known for being a rare tax-cutter in Albany and was also the
sitting governor when the 9/11 terror attacks rocked New York CIty in 2001.

Achilles heel: While Pataki's liberal-leaning social agenda plays well in the
Empire State, it won't win him any fans among the GOP's conservative base. He
supports abortion rights and gay rights, and has advocated strongly in favor of
government intervention to stop global warming, which right-wingers believe is
overblown as a global threat.

Marco Rubio  Florida senator

Age on Election Day: 45

Religion:          Catholic

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: US senator, former speaker of the Florida House of Representatives,
former city commissioner of West Miami

Education: B.A. University of Florida. J.D. University of Miami School of Law.

Family: Married to Jeanette Dousdebes (1998), with two sons and two daughters.
Jeanette is a former Miami Dolphins cheerleader who posed for the squad's first
swimsuit calendar.

Claim to fame: Rubio's personal story as the son of Cuban emigres is a powerful
narrative, and helped him win his Senate seat in 2010 against a well-funded
governor whom he initially trailed by 20 points.

Achilles heel: Rubio was part of a bipartisan 'gang of eight' senators who
crafted an Obama-approved immigration reform bill in 2013 which never became law
- a move that angered conservative Republicans. And he was criticized in 2011
for publicly telling a version of his parents' flight from Cuba that turned out
to appear embellished.

Donald Trump  Real estate developer

Age on Election Day: 70

Religion: Presbyterian

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: Chairman of The Trump Organization. Fixture on the Forbes 400 list of
the world's richest people. Star of 'Celebrity Apprentice.'

Education: B.Sci. Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Family: Married to Melania Trump (2005). Divorced from Ivana Zelnícková
(1977-92) and Marla Maples(1993-99). Five grown children. Trump's father Fred
Trump amassed a $400 million fortune developing real estate.

Claim to fame: Trump's niche in the 2016 campaign stems from his celebrity as a
reality-show host and his enormous wealth - more than $10 billion, according to
Trump. Because he can self-fund an entire presidential campaign, he is seen as
less beholden to donors than other candidates. He has grabbed the attention of
reporters and commentators by unapologetically staking out controversial
positions and refusing to budge in the face of criticism.

Achilles heel: Trump is a political neophyte who has toyed with running for
president and for governor of New York, but shied away from taking the plunge
until now. His billions also have the potential to alienate large swaths of the
electorate. And his Republican rivals have labeled him an ego-driven celeb and
an electoral sideshow because of his all-over-the-map policy history - much of
which agreed with today's today's democrats - and his past enthusiasm for
anti-Obama 'birtherism.'

Ben Carson  Retired Physician

Age on Election Day: 65

Religion:              Seventh-day Adventist

Base: Evangelicals

Résumé: Famous pediatric neurosurgeon, youngest person to head a major Johns
Hopkins Hospital division. Founder of the Carson Scholars Fund, which awards
scholarships to children of good character.

Education: B.A. Yale University. M.D. University of Michigan Medical School.

Family: Married to Candy Carson (1975), with three adult sons. The Carsons live
in Maryland with Ben's elderly mother Sonya, who was a seminal influence on his
life and development.

Claim to fame: Carson spoke at a National Prayer Breakfast in 2013, railing
against political correctness and condemned Obamacare - with President Obama
sitting just a few feet away.

Achilles heel: Carson is inflexibly conservative, opposing gay marriage and once
saying gay attachments formed in prison provided evidence that sexual
orientation is a choice.

Ted Cruz         Texas senator

Age on Election Day: 45

Religion:         Southern Baptist

Base: Tea partiers

Résumé:U.S. senator. Former Texas solicitor general. Former U.S. Supreme Court
clerk. Former associate deputy attorney general under President George W. Bush.

Education: B.A. Princeton University. J.D. Harvard Law School.

Family: Married to Heidi Nelson Cruz (2001), with two young daughters. His
father is a preacher and he has two half-sisters.

Claim to fame: Cruz spoke on the Senate floor for more than 21 hours in
September 2013 to protest the inclusion of funding for Obamacare in a federal
budget bill. (The bill moved forward as written.) He has called for the complete
repeal of the medical insurance overhaul law, and also for a dismantling of the
Internal Revenue Service. Cruz is also outspoken about border security.

Achilles heel: Cruz's father Rafael, a Texas preacher, is a tea party firebrand
who has said gay marriage is a government conspiracy and called President Barack
Obama a Marxist who should 'go back to Kenya.' Cruz himself also has a
reputation as a take-no-prisoners Christian evangelical, which might play well
in South Carolina but won't win him points in the other early primary states and
could cost him momentum if he should be the GOP's presidential nominee.

Jim Gilmore  Former Virginia governor

Age on Election Day: 67

Religion: United Methodist

    Base: Conservatives

Résumé: Former governor and attorney general of Virginia. Former chairman of the
Republican National Committee. Former U.S. Army intelligence agent. President
and CEO of the Free Congress Foundation. Board member of the National Rifle
Association

Education: B.A. University of Virginia.

Family: Married to Roxane Gatling Gilmore (1977), with two adult children. Mrs.
GIlmore is a survivor of Hodgkin's lymphoma

Claim to fame: Gilmore presided over Virginia when the 9/11 terrorists struck in
1991, guiding the state through a difficult economic downturn after one of the
hijacked airliners crashed into the Pentagon. He is nest known in Virginia for
eliminating most of a much-maligned personal property tax on automobiles,
working with a Democratic-controlled state legislature to get it passed and
enacted.

Achilles heel: Gilmore is the only GOP or Democratic candidate for president who
has been the chairman of his political party, giving him a rap as an
'establishment' candidate. A social-conservative crusader, he is loathed by the
left for championing the state law that established 24-hour waiting periods for
abortions. Gilmore also has a reputation as an indecisive campaigner, having
dropped out of the 2008 presidential race in July 2007.

Mike Huckabee  Former Arkansas governor

Age on Election Day: 61

Religion: Southern Baptist

Base: Evangelicals

Résumé: Former governor and lieutenant governor of Arkansas. Former Fox News
Channel host. Ordained minister and author.

Education: B.A. Ouachita Baptist University. Southwestern Baptist Theological
Seminary (did not finish).

Family: Married to Janet Huckabee (1974), with three adult children. Mrs.
Huckabee is a survivor of spinal cancer.

Claim to fame: 'Huck' is a political veteran and has run for president before,
winning the Iowa Caucuses in 2008 and finishing second for the GOP nomination
behind John McCain. He's known as an affable Christian and succeeded in building
a huge following on his weekend television program, in which he frequently sat
in on the electric bass with country & western groups and other 'wholesome'
musical entertainers.

Achilles heel: Huckabee may have a problem with female voters. He complained in
2014 about Obamacare's mandatory contraception coverage, saying Democrats want
women to 'believe that they are helpless without Uncle Sugar.' He earned more
scorn for hawking herbal supplements in early-2015 infomercials as a diabetes
cure, something he has yet to disavow despite disagreement from medical experts.

John Kasich  Ohio governor

Age on Election Day: 64

Religion: Anglican

Base: Centrists

Résumé: Governor of New York. Former chairman of the U.S. House Budget
Committee. Former Ohio congressman. Former Ohio state senator.

Education: B.A. The Ohio State University.

Family: Married to Karen Waldbillig (1997). Divorced from Mary Lee Griffith
(1975-1980).

Claim to fame: Kasich was Ohio youngest-ever member of the state legislature at
age 25. He's known for a compassionate and working-class sensibility that
appeals to both ends of the political spectrum. In the 1990s when Newt Gingrich
led a Republican revolution that took over Congress, Kasich became the chairman
of the House Budget Committee - a position for a wonk's wonk who understands the
nuanced intricacies of how government runs.

Achilles heel: Some of Kasich's political positions rankle conservatives,
including his choice to expand Ohio's Medicare system under the Obamacare law,
and his support for the much-derided 'Common Core' education standards program.

Rand Paul  Kentucky senator

Age on Election Day: 53

Religion: Presbyterian

Base: Libertarians

Résumé: US senator. Board-certified ophthalmologist. Former congressional
campaign manager for his father Ron Paul.

Education: Baylor University (did not finish). M.D. Duke University School of
Medicine.

Family: Married to Kelley Ashby (1990), with three sons. His father is a former
Texas congressman who ran for president three times but never got close to
grabbing the brass ring.

Claim to fame: Paul embraces positions that are at odds with most in the GOP,
including an anti-interventionist foreign policy, reduced military spending,
criminal drug sentencing reform for African-Americans and strict limits on
government electronic surveillance - including a clampdown on the National
Security Agency.

Achilles heel: Paul's politics are aligned with those of his father, whom
mainstream GOPers saw as kooky. Both Pauls have advocated for a brand of
libertarianism that forces government to stop domestic surveillance programs and
limits foreign military interventions.

Rick Santorum  Former Penn. senator

Age on Election Day: 58

Religion: Catholic

Base: Evangelicals

Résumé: Former US senator and former member of the House of Representatives from
Pennsylvania. Former lobbyist who represented World Wrestling Entertainment.

Education: B.A. Penn State University. M.B.A. University of Pittsburgh. J.D.
Penn State University Dickinson School of Law.

Family: Married to Karen Santorum (1990), with seven living children. One baby
was stillborn in 1996. Another, named Isabella, is a special needs child with a
genetic disorder.

Claim to fame: Santorum won the 2012 Republican Iowa Caucuses by a nose. He won
by visiting all of Iowa's 99 states in a pickup truck belonging to his state
campaign director, a consultant who now worls for Donald Trump.

Achilles heel: As a young lobbyist, Santorum persuaded the federal government to
exempt pro wrestling from regulations governing the use of anabolic steroids.
And the stridently conservative politician has attracted strong opposition from
gay rights groups. One gay columnist held a contest to redefine his name, buying
the 'santorum.com' domain to advertise the winning entry - which is too vulgar
to print.

REPUBLICAN DROPOUTS

Rick Perry, former Texas governor

     (withdrew Sept. 11, 2015)

Scott Walker, Wisconsin governor

     (withdrew Sept. 21, 2015)

DEMOCRATS IN THE RACE

Lincoln Chafee Former Rhode Island governor

Age on Election Day: 63

Religion:  Episcopalian                                   Base: Centrists

Résumé: Former Rhode Island governor. Former U.S. senator. Former city
councilman and mayor of Warwick, RI.

Education: B.A. Brown University. Graduate, Montana State University
horseshoeing school.

Family: Married to Stephanie Chafee (1990) with three children. Like him, his
father John Chafee was a Rhode Island governor and US senator, but also served
as Secretary of the Navy. Lincoln was appointed to his Senate seat when his
father died in office.

Claim to fame: While Chafee was a Republican senator during the George W. Bush
administration, he cast his party's only vote in 2002 against a resolution that
authorized military action in Iraq. Hillary Clinton, also a senator then, voted
in favor - giving him a point of comparison that he hopes to ride to victory.

Achilles heel: Chafee's lack of any significant party loyalty has turned allies
into foes throughout his political career, and Democrats aren't sure he's
entirely with them now. He was elected to the Senate as a Republican in 2000 but
left the party and declared himself a political independent after losing a
re-election bid in 2006. As an independent, he was elected governor in 2010. Now
he's running for president as a Democrat.

Martin O'Malley Former Maryland governor

Age on Election Day: 53

Religion: Catholic

Base: Centrists

Résumé:Former Maryland governor. Former city councilor and mayor of Baltimore,
MD. Former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia.

Education: B.A. Catholic University of America. J.D. University of Maryland.

Family: Married to Katie Curran (1990) and they have four children. Curran is a
district court judge in Baltimore. Her father is Maryland's attorney general.
O'Malley's mother is a receptionists in the Capitol Hill office of Democratic
Sen. Barbara Mikulski.

Claim to fame: O'Malley pushed for laws in Maryland legalizing same-sex marriage
and giving illegal immigrants the right to pay reduced tuition rates at public
universities. But he's best known for playing guitar and sung in a celtic band
cammed 'O'Malley's March.'

Achilles heel: O'Malley may struggle in the Democratic primary since he endorsed
Hillary Clinton eight years ago. If he prevails, he will have to run far enough
to her left to be an easy target for the GOP. He showed political weakness when
his hand-picked successor lost the 2014 governor's race to a Republican. But
most troubling is his link with Baltimore, whose 2016 race riots have made it a
nuclear subject for politicians of all stripes.

Jim WebbFormer Virginia senator

Age on Election Day: 70

Religion: Christian (nondenominational)                             Base: War
hawks and economic centrists

Résumé:Former U.S. senator from Virginia. Former U.S. Secretary of the Navy
under Ronamd Reagan. Former Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs.

Education: B.A. US Naval Academy (transferred from the University of Southern
California). J.D. Georgetown University.

Family: Married to Hong Le Webb (2005). Divorced from Jo Ann Krukar (1981-2004).
Divorced from Barbara Samorajczyk (1968-1979).

Claim to fame: Webb is the rare Democrat who can bring both robust defense
credentials and a history of genuine bipartisanship to the race. He served in
Republican president Ronald Reagan's defense directorate as Navy secretary, and
earned both the Navy Star and the Purple Heart in combat. Webb is also seen as a
quiet scholar who has written more than a half-dozen historical novels and a
critically acclaimed history of Scots-Irish U.S. immigrants.

Achilles heel: Webb has a reputation as a bit of a quitter. He resigned his Navy
secretary post over a budget-cut dispute just 10 months after taking the job,
and he declined to run for re-election to the U.S. Senate in 2006. He also
attracted bad press for defending the use of the Confederate flag as a heritage
symbol for American southerners. Amid a nationwide clamor to remove the flag
from the South Carolina statehouse grounds, he wrote that Americans should
'respect the complicated history of the Civil War.... Honorable Americans fought
on both sides.'

Hillary Clinton Former sec. of state

Age on Election Day: 69

Religion: United Methodist

Base: Liberals

Résumé:Former secretary of state. Former U.S. senator from New York. Former U.S.
first lady. Former Arkansas first lady. Former law school faculty, University of
Arkansas Fayetteville.

Education: B.A. Wellesley College. J.D. Yale Law School.

Family: Married to Bill Clinton (1975), the 42nd President of the United States.
Their daughter Chelsea is married to investment banker Marc Mezvinsky, whose
mother was a 1990s one-term Pennsylvania congresswoman.

Claim to fame: Clinton was the first US first lady with a postgraduate degree
and presaged Obamacare with a failed attempt at health care reform in the 1990s.

Achilles heel: A long series of financial and ethical scandals has dogged
Clinton, including recent allegations that her husband and their family
foundation benefited financially from decisions she made as secretary of state.
Her performance surrounding the 2012 terror attack on a State Department
facility in Benghazi, Libya, has been catnip for conservative Republicans. And
her presidential campaign has been marked by an unwillingness to engage
journalists, instead meeting with hand-picked groups of voters.

Bernie Sanders*  Vermont senator

Age on Election Day: 75

Religion: Jewish

Base: Far-left progressives

Résumé:U.S. senator. Former U.S. congressman. Former mayor of Burlington, VT.

Education: B.A. University of Chicago.

Family: Married to Jane O'Meara Sanders (1988), a former president of Burlington
College. He has one child from a previous relationship and is stepfather to
three from Mrs. Sanders' previous marriage. His brother Larry is a Green Party
politician in the UK and formerly served on the Oxfordshire County Council.

Claim to fame: Sanders is an unusually blunt, and unapologetic pol, happily
promoting progressivism without hedging. He is also the longest-serving
'independent' member of Congress - neither Democrat nor Republican.

Achilles heel: Sanders describes himself as a 'democratic socialist.' At a time
of huge GOP electoral gains, his far-left ideas don't poll well. He favors open
borders, single-payer universal health insurance, and greater government control
over media ownership.

* Sanders is running as a Democrat but has no party affiliation in the Senate.

DEMOCRATS IN THE HUNT

Joe Biden, U.S. vice president

Biden would be a natural candidate as the White House's sitting second-banana,
but his reputation as a one-man gaffe factory could keep Democrats from taking
him seriously.

Elizabeth Warren, Massachusetts senator

Warren is a populist liberal who could give Hillary Clinton headaches by
challenging her from the left, but she has said she has no plans to run and is
happy in the U.S. Senate.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 9:20 AM GMT

Revealed, the 'hit list' of Britain's most wanted ISIS jihadis: 'Mrs Terror'
among four extremists trying to instigate terror attacks on UK from Syria who
face being targeted by drone strikes

BYLINE: JACK DOYLE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1230 words



     ·    British people on government list of most dangerous ISIS recruiters
          named
     ·    The four extremists are trying to foment terror attacks on the UK from
          Syria
     ·    Convert Sally Jones, 45, known as 'Mrs Terror', is one of those named
     ·    First time the Government has revealed which of the 700 Britons
          thought to have travelled to Syria pose the biggest threat to the UK


A jihadi bride known as 'Mrs Terror' has been put on a government list of the
most dangerous British recruiters for Islamic State.

Sally Anne Jones, 46, is one of four extremists trying to foment terror attacks
on the UK from Syria.

They will have their assets frozen and be put on 'no-fly' lists as part of a UN
sanction scheme.

See our full coverage of ISIS and the war in Syria

Government officials said they want to identify IS suspects as a deterrent to
others - but it will also be seen as a potential 'hit list' of individuals
targeted in drone strikes.

Those named are believed to be leading figures calling for home grown terrorist
attacks rather than frontline fighters.

White convert Jones, 46, became known as 'Mrs Terror' after she abandoned her
family in Chatham, Kent to marry Junaid Hussain, 21, and join IS in Syria. He
was killed by a US drone in a joint operation with the UK last month.

She now calls herself Umm Hussain Britaniya and attempts to recruit terrorists
online.

Also on the list is privately educated Aqsa Mahmood, 20, who travelled to Syria
to marry an IS fighter and told her parents she would die a 'martyr' and would
see them on the 'day of judgment'.

She left her family home in Glasgow last November and is now believed to be a
key figure in the al-Khanssaa brigade, a female brigade established by ISIL in
Raqqa to enforce Sharia law.

Former medical student Nasser Muthana, 20, from Cardiff, is the last remaining
surviving Briton from an IS propaganda video showing Reyaad Khan - his former
schoolmate - and Ruhul Amin last year

He is suspected of involvement in a death squad which beheaded Syrian soldiers.

In a chilling message online, he threatened to use his terror 'skills' when he
returns to the UK to carry out an atrocity.

Former Morrison's security guard Omar Hussain, 27, from High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire appeared in an IS propaganda video urging the West to send
troops to fight IS, vowing: 'We'll send them back one by one in coffins.'

Once appeared on BBC's Newsnight saying: 'I hate the UK, the only reason why I
would intend to return to the UK is when I want to come and plant a bomb
somewhere.'

It is the first time the Government has revealed which of the 700 Britons
thought to have travelled to Syria pose the biggest threat to the UK because of
their attempts to foment terror in the UK

Some are believed to be holed up in the extremist-held city of Raqqa, where
militants Reeyad Khan and Ruhul Amin were killed in an RAF drone strike last
month.

Defence secretary Michael Fallon sparked speculation of a 'kill list' after the
attacks when he said there were three other extremists in Syria the Government
considered legitimate targets.

The list of wanted IS members are subject to a global asset freeze and travel
ban as part of a UN sanctions list - the first time it has been used by Britain
since 2006 when it was used for Al Qaeda terrorists.

Detailed dossiers of evidence were submitted to show the suspects were
'participating in the financing, planning, facilitating, preparing, or
perpetrating of acts or activities' related to IS. Among the activities they are
accused of is of uploading bomb-making instructions to social media sites.

A senior government official said the list was of 'notorious British foreign
fighters who are particularly the ones seeking to recruit to Isil and to inspire
and promote terrorist activity that threatens us'.

It sends a 'very clear signal that we will absolutely take action against people
that have gone from Britain to fight for Isil and who are threatening our
country,' she said.

More names are expected to be added to the list in the coming months.

A Downing Street spokesman said David Cameron believed foreign fighters should
'face consequences' for their actions.

As part of a new push against Islamic State, the Prime Minister has also set up
a dedicated arm of the Government's National Security Council.

Chaired by the PM, it will bring together senior ministers including defence
secretary Michael Fallon and Home Secretary Theresa May with defence and
intelligence chiefs. The move was revealed as Mr Cameron prepared to unveil a
£10million counter-propaganda drive designed to counteract jihadists' use of
social media to spread its message.

The fightback will be carried out partly by a unit set up jointly with the US in
the Middle East. The PM will set out the plans at a meeting in New York of
allies in the fight against the extremist threat.

WHO IS ON THE 'KILL' LIST? MRS TERROR AND A FORMER SECURITY GUARD

The UK has drawn up a list of prominent British Islamic State jihadists trying
to inspire terror attacks in the UK.

Four people, two men and two women, were approved for a United Nations no-fly
and asset freezing regime last night.

It prompted speculation they could be the next targets for RAF drone strikes
similar to the one which killed two British terrorists near Raqqa last month.

Mrs Terror

White convert Sally Jones, 45, was dubbed 'Mrs Terror' when she abandoned her
family in Chatham, Kent to marry Junaid Hussain, 21, and join Islamic State in
Syria.

Her toyboy husband, an ex-computer hacker from Birmingham whom she met online,
was killed by an American drone in a joint UK/US operation last month.

Now calling herself Umm Hussain Britaniya, she wrote on Twitter that she was
'proud' he was killed by the 'biggest enemy of Allah' adding that she 'will
never love anyone but him'.

She was once pictured as a gun-toting nun in a mocked-up image on her Twitter
account.

Private schoolgirl Sharia fighter

Aqsa Mahmood, 20, travelled to Syria to marry an Islamic State fighter and told
her parents she would die a 'martyr' and would see them on the 'day of
judgement'.

She left her family home in Glasgow last November and called her parents
Muzaffar and Khalida Mahmood from the Turkish border before entering Syria. She
now calls herself Umm Layth.

Believed to be a key figure in the al-Khanssaa brigade, a female brigade
established by ISIL in Raqqa to enforce Sharia law.

Former medical student

Nasser Muthana is the last remaining surviving Briton from an IS propaganda
video showing Reyaad Khan - his former schoolmate - and Ruhul Amin last year.

He is suspected of involvement in a death squad which beheaded Syrian soldiers.
In a chilling message online, he threatened to use his terror 'skills' when he
returns to the UK to carry out an atrocity.

Appeared in a an ISIL recruitment video in 2014, titled 'There is No Life
without Jihad', calling for Western Muslims to join the wars and fight in Syria
and Iraq and has threatened the UK on social media.

Morrison's security guard

Omar Hussain, 27, from High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire came to prominence when he
appeared in an IS propaganda video urging the West to send troops to fight IS,
vowing: 'We'll send them back one by one in coffins.'

Once appeared on BBC's Newsnight saying: 'I hate the UK, the only reason why I
would intend to return to the UK is when I want to come and plant a bomb
somewhere.'

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Waking nightmare;
LOVERS' 8AM TERROR ; MUM, 41, & TOYBOY, 27 ATTACKED IN THEIR BED ; HER SON & EX
BURST IN TO LAUNCH STAB FRENZY

BYLINE: IRINA WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 65 words


EXCLUSIVE By IRINA WILKIE A TERRIFIED mum and her toyboy lover were attacked in
bed by her crazed ex and their son.

Pamela Frew, 41, woke under a hail of blows from John Andrew, 49, while her lad
Eoin, 21, knifed Scott Johnstone, 27, below right.

Describing the horrific 8am assault in Muirkirk, Ayrshire, sickened Pamela,
below left, said: "There was blood everywhere."

Full Story - Page Five

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

ANTI-TERROR BOSS'S CLUB ATTACK RAP;
Top cop faces party rammy trial

BYLINE: TIM BUGLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 252 words


A SENIOR anti-terror cop is to stand trial accused of assaulting three people at
a social club - including a junior officer.

Detective Chief Inspector Hugh Bleakley, 51, is also charged with resisting
police and threatening and abusive behaviour.

The alleged incidents are said to have taken place while he was at a party to
celebrate his partner's son James Craig's engagement to Nicola Eddie, 26.

It is claimed Bleakley, 51, head of operations for Police Scotland's
counter-terrorism unit, punched Mr Craig on the head in Bonnybridge Social Club,
Stirlingshire.

He is also accused of striking Thomas Tolmie on the head with his elbow at the
function in February.

And the third assault charge alleges the top detective, of East Kilbride,
punched PC Alan Musgrave on the head and body.

It's further alleged he "resisted, obstructed or hindered" the officer and
fellow constable Gavin McCrae, struggled with them and refused to stop when
asked to. He is also accused of behaving in a threatening and abusive manner at
the club and "to and from Falkirk" police station.

The charges allege Bleakley shouted, swore, uttered offensive remarks,
repeatedly pushed others on the body, uttered threats of violence and struggled
with cops.

He was excused from appearing in person yesterday at a preliminary hearing at
Falkirk Sheriff Court.

Defence lawyer Simon Hutchison said Bleakley continued to deny all the charges.

Sheriff John Mundy set trial for October 21 following a further hearing on
October 7. scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Engagement ... scene of the bash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                   September 30, 2015 Wednesday 10:43 AM GMT

Calais migrant crisis and Tunisia terror attacks putting Britons off travelling
abroad

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

LENGTH: 575 words


THE Calais migrant crisis and the Tunisia terror attack are deterring Britons
from taking holidays abroad, new research shows.

GETTY

Refugee camps in Calais have been growing in size for most of this year

Three-quarters of tourists said they are now actively avoiding Islamic countries
for their breaks because of terrorism.

The same number said the chaos in Calais had put them off travelling through the
Chunnel or on Eurostar.

More than half admitted that the Tunisia beach massacre earlier this year had
stopped them planning or booking a holiday anywhere abroad.

GETTY

The Calais migrant crisis has deterred Brits from wanting to travel to France

GETTY

Three-quarters of tourists said they are now actively avoiding Islamic countries
for their breaks

Fear of being caught up in an Islamist atrocity or in mayhem caused by the
migration situation gripping the EU means holidaymakers are preferring to go as
far away as Australia and the Caribbean for their touch of winter sun.

Tourism specialist Yeganeh Morakabati, who carried out the research at
Bournemouth University, said: "Usually when Britain has a cool and wet summer,
we are keen to take a holiday somewhere warm. The events of this summer,
however, have impacted the choices of British holidaymakers."

Countries traditionally used for a winter getaway, such as Greece, Egypt,
Tunisia, Morocco and Turkey, are all falling in popularity.

TWITTER

The Tunisian terror attack in June claimed the lives of 38 people, 30 of which
were British

Italy, Spain, France, Portugal and the US are the five most popular choices for
general holidays in the coming year, the study showed.

Fewer than one per cent of Britons said they would think of going to Tunisia
even if the Foreign Office lifted its travel ban on the country.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Some 73 per cent said the migrant situation puts them off travelling through the
channel tunnel or by Eurostar, out of fear for their safety

The Calais crisis has had a greater impact on Britons willingness to travel
abroad than the Paris attacks on Charlie Hebdo, the recent Bangkok bombing and
Greece's economic collapse.

Only a third said they do not plan to avoid any countries when travelling abroad
while 61 per cent said they are more likely to book a holiday in the UK, as it
is the safest option.

Louise Hodges of Travelzoo said the Foreign Office's travel advice website was
now a regular reference point for holidaymakers before they book.

"It's clear that after a turbulent year with many high-profile incidents in
tourist destinations, safety and security is paramount for British people making
choices about where to travel to for the rest of 2015 and into 2016.

Related articles  Quiet life on a Welsh beach for Tunisian massacre hero   'I
can see his face' Survivors of Tunisian massacre speak of...

"Winter-sun holidays for British tourists have typically been to the Canaries or
the North Africa region, where the short flight time and guaranteed heat holds
enormous appeal. The Canaries are looking popular again this year, however we
know people are actively avoiding North Africa, opting instead for destinations
they believe are safer. Islamic countries in particular are causing potential
British visitors concern."

"It is surprising that people are actively avoiding Islamic countries. On a
human level you can understand it but it's quite sad because it makes the world
feel like a smaller place."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                   September 30, 2015 Wednesday 11:09 AM GMT

British 'Jihadi Sally' ridicules UN sanctions;
Jones was one of four Britons suspected of leading recruitment drives and
plotting terrorist attacks against the UK and elsewhere added to a UN list

BYLINE: Hayden Smith

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 315 words


One of four British jihadis hit by international sanctions has appeared to mock
the move.

A post from a Twitter account thought to belong to Sally-Anne Jones taunted the
Government after it was revealed that she was being made subject to a travel ban
as part of attempts to stem the flow of Isis recruits.

The tweet referred to "laughing out loud" at the measure and finished with a
smiley face symbol.

The post, made on an account under a version of a pseudonym linked to the
46-year-old, said: "Just found out from a article that David Cameron has put me
on a UN Sanctions list as i lol England for giving me a travel ban :)"

In another tweet the user vowed to fight England "until my last breath". The
ownership of the account has not been independently verified.

Jones and three other high-profile UK extremists have been added to a United
Nations list and also face a freeze of their assets.

Analysts suggested the impact of the measures on their activities is likely to
be limited.

Read more

Sally Jones spotted 'back in Britain' after claims Isis focussing on

Russia joins fight against Isis as Parliament approves Putin's request

Plenty of rhetoric at UN, but no progress on plan to defeat Isis

Shashank Joshi, of the security think-tank the Royal United Services Institute,
said: "The way to view this is as a legal instrument.

"It is not going to particularly help with finding them or anything like that
but it does make sure there are no legal loopholes if they seek to move around,
if they try and travel back through Europe."

He added: "On the whole it does not change very much."

It is the first time since 2006 that the UK has sought to place its own
nationals under the United Nations sanctions regime set up to tackle suspected
al-Qaeda terrorists and extended to Isis.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 30, 2015 Wednesday 8:09 AM GMT

US judge rules 9/11 victims' families cannot sue Saudi Arabia over alleged links
to terror attack;
15 of the 9/11 attackers came from Saudi Arabia

BYLINE: ROSE TROUP BUCHANAN

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 344 words


A US judge has toldthe families of those killed in the 9/11 terror attacks they
cannot sue Saudi Arabia over claims the country helped Al Qaeda carry out the
atrocity.

Manhattan District Judge George Daniels said that becauseSaudi Arabia enjoys
sovereign immunity, which means a state cannot commit a legal wrong and
therefore can't be prosecuted in either criminal or civil cases, any attempt to
sue the kingdom would be "futile".

He said that,despite the best efforts of families to provide additional evidence
against the country, their claims wouldnot "strip defendants of sovereign
immunity."

9/11 attackers countries of origin

15: Saudi Arabia

2: United Arab Emirates

1: Egypt

​1: Lebanon

"The allegations in the complaint alone do not provide this court with a basis
to assert jurisdiction over defendants," Daniels wrote on Tuesday.

Families, as well as insurers that covered losses from the buildings and local
businesses, had secured testimony from Zacarias Moussaoui, a former al-Qaeda
operative imprisoned for his actions.

But this effort proved fruitless as Judge Daniels refused to consider the case
in Manhattan.

Read more

Father's poignant 9/11 letter arrives - 14 years late

9/11 anniversary: 18 pictures of White House tension after attacks

Lawyers from both parties declined to on comment on the situation.

9/11 was carried out by 19 men, 15 of whom were from Saudi Arabia, and killed
2,996 people. The Pentagon and the two World Trade Centre towers were targeted
in an attack that horrified the world.

In the years following the tragedy, civil action against Saudi Arabia has
proceeded in fits and starts.

Trial judges - including Judge Daniels - had ruled the country was entitled to
immunity twice before under the federal Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. In
2013, claimants appeared to make headway when the 2nd US Circuit Court of
Appeals in New York revived the lawsuit following a decision in 2011 that
allowed a similar suit against Afghanistan.

Additional reporting by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 1, 2015 Thursday 2:49 PM GMT

ISIS-inspired teenage Briton plotted police massacre terrorist attack at Anzac
Day parade

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 1380 words


A TEENAGE Briton inspired by Islamic State hatched a Lee Rigby style plot to
behead policemen in front of crowds at a war memorial parade in Australia from
his UK bedroom, a court heard today.

GETTY

The young boy was behind a plot to attack the Anzac parade in Australia

The youngster masterminded the atrocity, which would have "in all probability"
resulted in multiple deaths, after being radicalised by ISIS videos on the
internet.

A judge was told how the troubled youngster, who was just 14 at the time, became
interested in extremist Islamism after transferring to a secular school where
the majority of his fellow pupils were white.

The court heard that he got in touch with an Australian jihadi online, and
together they plotted to run over and behead police officers at the annual Anzac
parade commemorating Australia and New Zealand's war dead.

The boy even told his alleged would-be accomplice Sevdet Besim to make sure he
was shot and killed by the security services, to which he chillingly replied
that he felt "like a young kid with a ticket to Disney World".

A judge heard that the pair got in touch through Abu Khaled al-Cambodi, a
notorious Australian ISIS recruiter and propagandist who has promoted the idea
of attacks in his homeland.

Related articles  Teen who watched sick ISIS videos of Briton beheadings
murdered...  Britain faces biggest terrorist threat in decades as MI5 stop
six...

The teenager from Blackburn, who was just 14 at the time and is thought to be
Britain's youngster terrorist, admitted inciting terrorism overseas.

The smartly dressed and bespectacled teenager sat watching the proceedings from
the dock, flanked by his parents. His mother began crying when the court
discussed possible sentencing terms.

When police searched his phone they found picture of Jihadi John beheading
Western hostages and ISIS propaganda urging lone wolf attacks in home countries.
He also once described the Charlie Hebdo murderers as his "heroes", the court
was told.

Opening his two day sentencing at Manchester Crown Court, prosecutor Paul
Greaney QC said the youngster had a history of making extremist threats and had
once said he wanted to set off a bomb on a plane to maximise casualties.

He added that the youngster had made numerous references to terrorism at school,
talking to fellow pupils about beheadings and on one occasion threatening to
slit a teacher's throat.

GETTY

The annual parade commemmorates Australia and New Zealand's war dead

GETTY

A court heard the attack would probably have resulted in a massacre

He said: "It is clear that the purpose of this proposed attack was to promote
the ideology and agenda of ISIS.

"There is no doubt that there was a determination on the part of the defendant
and Sevdet Besim that the plot should be carried through and the contact between
the two included frequent references to the production of a martyrdom video by
Besim for al-Cambodi which, no doubt, al-Cambodi intended to use for propaganda
purposes.

"In the event, fortunately, the authorities here and in Australia intervened and
a plot that would in all probability have resulted in a number of deaths was
thwarted."

The court was told that the pair planned to attack the Anzac parade - held on
April 25 - because they wanted the deed to be remembered forever.

Prosecutors told the judge that the Muslim schoolboy was "undoubtedly a troubled
young person" who had been affected by the separation of his parents.

The youngster, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was said to have "strong
religious convictions" and was disruptive when he attended a large secular
school where most of the pupils were white.

On one occasion he praised Osama bin Laden and stated his own desire to become a
jihadist and a martyr, the court heard.

brightcove.createExperiences;

His mother referred him to the Government's counter-extremism programme Channel,
but his case was later closed because his school did not note particular
features of radicalisation. He was later referred back to the programme after
his behaviour deteriorated.

Later the same year the boy shoved his phone in a teacher's face while it was
playing a video showing dead and bloody bodies on the floor.

He then went on to express extremist views about ISIS and terrorism and told one
teacher he was "on my beheading list", the court was told.

Mr Greaney said: "He regularly mentioned death and unpleasant methods of
torture. He also spoke of his desire to be a suicide bomber, stating that if he
had to choose where to detonate his bomb it would be on a plane in order that he
could maximise the fatalities."

Mr Greaney said: "In a meeting with officers from the Channel programme he
similarly expressed the view that killing could be justified on religious
grounds and to a social worker the same day he described the Charlie Hebdo
attackers as his heroes."

GETTY

The boy appeared at Manchester Crown Court today

GETTY

The boy was inspired by Islamic State, the court heard

The boy was arrested at his home on the morning of March 25 on suspicion of
making threats to kill, and his phone was examined.

The prosecutor said: "The screensaver for the handset of the Samsung Galaxy was
the flag of ISIS. The handset also contained a video showing the events
immediately preceding a beheading by members of Boko Haram along with
photographs of other beheadings, including by Jihadi John, to whom had referred
in discussions at school.

"He had also used the handset to search for news items relating to ISIS and
associated issues. In addition, he had searched for information about high
explosives and associated topics. In other words, the handset revealed the
clearest evidence of mindset and of his religious and political views."

He added: "And so, putting behaviour at school together with his activities over
the internet, a clear picture emerges of a young person who was, by March 2015,
thoroughly and dangerously radicalised and committed to Isis and the idea of
violent jihad, and who was, moreover, wired into the Isis network."

The court heard it was Besim who suggested attacking the Anzac parade and that
the British boy would act as his organiser and advisor.

The teenager even suggested that his jihadi accomplice break into the house of
"somebody lonely" and decapitate them in the hours before the planned attack to
practice his beheading, the court was told.

Mr Greaney said: "In the result, this aspect of the planning seems to have
drifted away, but it is a frightening indication of the lengths to which was
prepared to go, suggesting the beheading of a vulnerable person as practice for
the operation."

Australian police who arrested Besim a week before the planned attack found a
blade he had planned to use and a jihadi flag, the court heard.

Despite the schoolboy urging his accomplice to destroy all evidence of their
communications, police recovered more than 3,000 incriminating messages sent
over a period of nine days.

Related articles  Young ISIS fighter who wanted to be UK's first Asian Prime...
Brother of Briton murdered by Islamic State urges UK to unite...

Mr Greaney said: "The position of the prosecution is that a major terrorist plot
in its late stages, orchestrated from the North of England but to be carried out
in Melbourne, had been thwarted."

Defending the teenager, James Pickup QC said he accepted the "seriousness of the
offence".

He said the boy started accessing Isis propaganda when he got a smartphone and
told the court that he found an online jihadist community which "filled a void"
caused by problems he was having at school and at home as well as his
degenerative eye condition.

He said: "He was accepted. He wasn't rejected. He was welcomed."

Mr Pickup said that within two weeks of setting up a Twitter account he had
24,000 followers as he constructed a fantasy image of himself online.

"He quickly became a celebrity within the jihadi Twitter community."

Related articles Latest Briton believed to have beheaded in the name of IS - but
who is Nasser Muthana? Briton who spent months fighting ISIS shocked to be 'let
back in the UK without checks' DEAD MEN WALKING: British terror scum in the
crosshairs of the RAF's hunter-killer drones Terrorist ISIS executioner Jihadi
John cowers in FEAR of death by drone

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 1, 2015 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT

Seven Israelis charged over first 'plot to launch Isil attacks' in country;
Suspects indicted on charges of contacting Isil fighters in Syria, who then
allegedly encouraged them to plan terror attacks in Israel

BYLINE: By Inna Lazareva Tel Aviv

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


Seven Israelis accused of attempting to carry out the first known Islamic State
plot on Israeli soil were charged on Thursday.

In a joint operation by the police, the internal security service 'Shin Bet',
and the IDF, three suspects were indicted on charges of contacting Isil fighters
in Syria (at least one of whom is Israeli), who then encouraged them to plan
terror attacks in Israel.

The accused - Israeli-Arab citizens who live in northern Israel - are said to
have gathered information about an Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) base and a
police station near the city of Nazareth, northern Israel.

"The indictment stated that the defendants illegally purchased weapons, made
contact with Isis [Isil] agents in Syria and started to plan a shooting attack
in the Emek Valley", noted a report in Jerusalem Post.

The three are also said to have approached a fourth man for assistance - Ahmed
Ahmed, who is currently serving a life sentence for the murder of an Israeli
taxi driver in 2009.

Mr Ahmed, who operated in a group with links to Al Qaeda in 2009, is alleged to
have instructed the group to purchase an M16 rifle.

The Shin Bet says the suspects confessed to the charges against them.

But the trio's attorney, Nazar Abood, told Israeli daily Haaretz that the his
clients refute the charges and that the indictment against them is particularly
severe.

The results of the investigation are extensive, said Mr Abood, and further legal
examinations are necessary.

The father of one of the suspects denied his son's involvement with or
connection to Isil after attending the indictment hearing on Thursday.

"It's all lies," he said, as quoted in Israeli Ynet news site. "We live here in
this country and respect all its people - Jews and Arabs. No one in my family
has ever harmed anyone else or the security of the state."

Three other Israelis were charged with assisting the cell, but were not
suspected of allegiance to Isil, Israeli police said.

In late August, Iman Kanji, a 44-year old mother of five from the city of
Shaham, northern Israel, was indicted on accusation of attempting to join the
Islamic State.

Dozens of Israeli-Arab citizens are believed to have joined Isil, though the
overall number is minute relative to the total Arab population in Israel.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      October 2, 2015 Friday 10:26 PM GMT

Britain's youngest terrorist given life sentence for plotting Anzac Day terror
attack in Australia;
THE 15-year-old from Blackburn will serve at least five years for his part in an
alleged Australian jihadist's plot to behead police officers in Melbourne.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 193 words


BRITAIN'S youngest terrorist has been locked up for at least five years for
plotting an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia.

In March, the then 14-year-old boy, from Blackburn, took on the role of
"organiser and adviser" to an alleged Australian jihadist in a plot to behead
police officers in Melbourne.

The youngster exchanged 3000 encrypted mobile app messages with 18-year-old
Sevdet Besim after he became radicalised by online Islamic State propaganda.

A "major terrorist plot" was thwarted when Britain and Australia intervened and
Besim was arrested in possession of a knife a week before the war remembrance
event in April.

The boy, 15, was given a life sentence at Manchester Crown Court and told he'd
serve at least five years.

Mr Justice Saunders said the defendant's life term meant he would not be
released until he is considered not to be dangerous.

He said: "The revelation that someone of 14 could have become so radicalised he
was prepared to carry out this role intending and wishing that people should die
is chilling."

The judge said reporting restrictions which ban the identification of the Muslim
defendant should remain.

Quick Quiz: News 01/10/15

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             October 2, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Israelis charged with plotting terror attacks

BYLINE: Andrew Marszal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 143 words


SEVEN Israelis accused of attempting to carry out the first known Islamic State
plot on Israeli soil were charged yesterday.

In a joint operation by the police, the internal security service "Shin Bet",
and the Israeli Defence Forces (IDF), three suspects were indicted on charges of
contacting Isil fighters in Syria (at least one of whom is Israeli), who then
encouraged them to plan terror attacks in Israel.

The accused - Israeli-Arab citizens who live in northern Israel - are said to
have gathered information about an IDF base and a police station near the city
of Nazareth, northern Israel.

The three, who deny the charges, are also said to have approached a fourth man
for assistance - Ahmed Ahmed, who is currently serving a life sentence for
murder.

Three other Israelis were charged with assisting the cell, but were not
suspected of allegiance to Isil.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 2, 2015
                                 First Edition

Iran disputes £1bn award for victims of terror attack;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories UNITED STATES

BYLINE: Sam Hananel IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 213 words


The US Supreme Court yesterday heard an appeal from Iran's central bank over a
$1.75bn (£1.15bn) judgment awarded to victims of terrorist attacks, including
the 1983 bombing that killed 241 marines in Lebanon.

Judges agreed to review a ruling from the federal appeals court in New York that
said the judgment against Bank Markazi could be distributed to hundreds of
victims and families of those killed or injured in attacks sponsored by the
Iranian government. In 2012 President Barack Obama ordered Iranian assets
blocked, including those of Bank Markazi. But the bank argued that seizing its
assets would conflict with treaty agreements between the US and Iran. The
lawsuit against Iran was filed under a 1996 law which allows Americans to sue
nations which the State Department considers to be sponsors of terrorism. Each
family was expected to receive about $5m after lawyers' fees.

On 23 October 1983, a truck exploded outside the Beirut barracks while many
servicemen slept. The marines were part of a multinational peacekeeping mission.

The bombing was blamed on Lebanese Hezbollah, which is backed by Iran. Lawyers
for the victims argued that evidence showed that Iran's late supreme cleric,
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, and other leaders ordered and planned the bombing.
AP

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       October 2, 2015 Friday 4:10 AM GMT

Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 slammed for publicity stunt that saw it live tweet
huge fake terrorist attack;
Tweets were described as 'unbelievably poor taste', though some applauded them

BYLINE: Andrew Griffin

SECTION: GAMING

LENGTH: 290 words


The team behind game Call of Duty have drawn criticism after apparently live
tweeting a fake terrorist attack on Singapore.

The game's official Twitter account - which is verified and has almost 3 million
followers - began a long chain of tweets by announcing that it had heard reports
of an explosion in Singapore.

BREAKING NEWS: Unconfirmed reports are coming in of an explosion on the North
bank of the Singapore Marina.

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

From there, the tweets continued to describe a rapidly worsening situation,
including more explosions and the declaration of martial law.

"A 30-mile quarantine zone has been established to contain the area until more
information is known." pic.twitter.com/0vMKXaxlbA

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

"Citizens living in the area are being asked to stay in their homes, and to keep
their doors and windows closed."

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

It wasn't until much later - after a flurry of tweets - that the account
confirmed that the story had been fictional.

This was a glimpse into the future fiction of #BlackOps3.

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

While the story was similar to the plot of other Call of Duty games, and the
account identifiably associated with the game, many complained that the story
was too close to real life events to be comfortable.

@CallofDuty - there have been too many similiar tragedies lately to joke in the
way you did without making your fiction clear :/

- Miss Envy (@missenvy) September 29, 2015

.@CallofDuty Your fake news story advertisement is offensive on multiple levels.
I'm not buying another CoD and encouraging others to not.

- Adam Feldhaus (@cafeldhaus) September 30, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             October 2, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

UK's youngest terrorist within days of Anzac Day attack

BYLINE: IAN JOHNSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 496 words


A 14-year-old boy from Lancashire - dubbed Britain's youngest terrorist - was
within days of successfully orchestrating a terrorist attack on an Anzac Day
parade in Australia, prosecutors have told a court.

From his bedroom in his parents' suburban house in Blackburn, the teenager, now
15, became an "organiser and adviser" to an Australian jihadist who also wanted
to behead police officers in Melbourne, Manchester Crown Court heard. However
the defence insisted the defendant, who cannot be named because of his age, had
felt isolated because of degenerative eye condition and problems at school and
home after his parents separated.

Just two weeks after creating a Twitter account and posting extremist messages,
he had 24,000 followers and "quickly became a celebrity" among the jihadi
community, defence lawyer James Pickup QC said. This new-found popularity
"filled a void" in the teenager's life, he added.

The youth, who sat in the court flanked by his mother and father, has pleaded
guilty to inciting terrorism overseas and is due to be sentenced today. Paul
Greaney QC, prosecuting, told a sentencing hearing yesterday that the defendant
had exchanged more than 3,000 encrypted messages with the Australian jihadi
Sevdet Besim, after prompting by an Isis recruiter and propagandist called Abu
Khaled al-Cambodi.

"There is no doubt that there was a determination on the part of the defendant
and Sevdet Besim that the plot should be carried through and the contact between
the two included frequent references to the production of a martyrdom video by
Besim for Cambodi which, no doubt, Cambodi intended to use for propaganda
purposes," Mr Greaney said.

"In the event, fortunately, the authorities here and in Australia intervened and
a plot that would in all probability have resulted in a number of deaths was
thwarted."

The court heard the boy, described as a "troubled young person" from the age of
12, was twice referred to a government scheme designed to discourage violent
extremism. He was regularly excluded from schools in Blackburn and Burnley for
being persistently abusive and disobedient.

In one class he was reported to have told a teacher, "You are on my beheading
list".

A male teacher was threatened on "many occasions" and once the teenager said
that he would "cut his throat and watch him bleed to death".

Mr Greaney said by March this year teachers were "increasingly concerned for
their own personal safety and the evidence of [the defendant's] radicalisation
was overwhelming".

The boy also praised Osama bin Laden and said he regarded the two men who killed
11 people at the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris in January as "his heroes".

Mr Pickup, defending, said the youth had been welcomed by the online jihadi
community. "He was accepted. He wasn't rejected," he said.

The defendant had made considerable progress at the specialist unit where he is
being held, the lawyer said, adding: "He accepts his crimes were barbaric,
immoral and wholly wrong."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                       October 2, 2015 Friday 5:59 PM GMT

Britain's youngest terrorist given life sentence for plotting Anzac Day terror
attack;
The teenager, 15, has been sentenced at Manchester Crown Court after plotting an
Anzac Day terror attack in Australia

BYLINE: By Simon Coyle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


A teenage terrorist has been sentenced to a least five years in custody for
plotting an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia.

Over the course of nine days in March this year the then 14-year-old boy took on
the role of "organiser and adviser" to an alleged Australian jihadist in a plot
to murder police officers by beheading in Melbourne the following month.

The youngster, from Blackburn, Lancashire, exchanged more than 3,000 encrypted
mobile app messages with 18-year-old Sevdet Besim after he became swiftly
radicalised by online Islamic State propaganda.

A "major terrorist plot in its late stages" was thwarted when authorities in
Britain and Australia intervened and Besim was arrested in possession of a knife
a week before the annual war remembrance event.

The youngster, now aged 15, was given a life sentence at Manchester Crown Court
and told he would serve at least five years.

Messages found on teenagers found about Anzac Day terror attack

Speaking after sentencing Detective Chief Superintendent Tony Mole from the
North West Counter Terrorism Unit said: "After the information was discovered on
the boy's phone, it was clear he was encouraging another person to commit an act
of terrorism and innocent lives were going to be in danger.

"A swift investigation was launched and we, alongside the relevant authorities
in the UK and Australia, acted quickly.

"From the early communication we could read, it was obvious the Anzac Day
memorial service was going to be a target.

"However, we did not know the specifics due to the messaging service he used
contained an encryption code. If officers from the hi-tech unit of the NWCTU had
not been able to develop a bespoke program to read the boy's messages, it is
likely someone would have been seriously injured or killed.

"The chains of events are clearly disturbing and residents will be shocked that
such activity can take place behind closed doors. However, while these
investigations took place, there was no suggestion the boy was looking to target
his local community or those in the UK.

"People will be understandably be shocked by the age of the boy however this
should not detract from the horror of what he was planning. It is also a clear
message that you will face prosecution, no matter how old you are.

"I want to reiterate that it is everybody's responsibility to tackle extremism
and radicalisation. It is vital communities and families contact us and bring to
our attention anyone they perceive may be vulnerable or in danger of escalating
towards terrorism."

Instant messages found on the defendants phone

Lancashire Constabulary assistant chief constable Tim Jacques added: "The early
identification of this threat was through the vigilance of both Lancashire
Constabulary staff and our partners involved in safeguarding vulnerable people.
This excellent partnership and the relationships that have been built up over
many years saved lives overseas.

"At the time of his arrest in March 2015 the boy was subject to local
safeguarding arrangements. Concerns were shared with us by partners and this led
ultimately to the disruption of this evil plan.

"We remain committed to preventing vulnerable people being drawn into terrorist
related activity. We will work closely with communities and our partners to
address any form of extremism".

"Our purpose is to keep the public safe, this includes ensuring that vulnerable
individuals of any age, faith, ethnicity or background receive support before
they are exploited by those who promote terrorism and before they become
involved in criminal terrorist activity."

Today's top stories

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 2, 2015 Friday 12:59 PM GMT

"Police are our target": How Britain's youngest ever terrorist became inspired
by ISIS to plot cop killing;
The teen, from Blackburn, was just 14 when he sent the shocking string of
messages to Australian Sevdit Besim, 18, discussing a terror attack on police

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 754 words


Instant messages sent by a Lancashire teenager inspired by Islamic State reveal
the bloody-thirsty chats which saw him become Britain's youngest convicted
terrorist.

Manchester Crown Court heard the teen, from Blackburn, was just 14 when he sent
a shocking string of messages to Australian Sevdit Besim, 18, discussing a
terror attack on police in Melbourne.

The British boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, discussed how Besim
could 'tear through the throat' of victims with a machete at the Anzac Day
parade on April 25 last year.

Over 10 days from March 15 the pair were said to have exchanged more than 3,000
encrypted instant messages.

The teenager went through options for the attack and even quizzed Besim on his
loyalty to Islamic State before taking the conversation further.

Spelling out his intentions to Besim, he wrote: "I'm gonna present you three
options. Knife attack on police etc. Car op on police. Gun attack on police."

In messages shown to the court, Besim is said to have replied: "All so good."

When counter-terror police raided the 14-year-old's house they found a carved,
wooden Box with 'Islamic State' written on the front and an Islamic State
magazine called 'Dabiq: The Return of the Khalifah'.

Officers also found the 14-year-old had changed his mobile phone background to a
picture of militants holding the Islamic State flag.

Chat logs reveal how the teenager suggested carrying out a practice beheading in
the hours before an attack on police at the Anzac Day parade.

He told Besim: "Suggest you break into someone's house and get your first taste
of beheading. Let all dat (sic) anger out. I'm talking a proper lonely person."

Besim is said replied he thought the practice beheading would be "a bit risky"
before saying he wanted to murder a police officer in an apparent copycat
killing of tragic soldier Lee Rigby.

The tragic Fusilier was beheaded in the street in Woolwich after being run over
with a car.

A message shown to the court, allegedly from Besim, said: "If I can't get a
weapon, I wanna jus (sic) drive find a cop walking run him over... and leave his
head a few metres from his body."

The British boy also discussed a large machete which would be used in the
attack.

He said: "(The) handle is perfect for tearing through throat."

Besim is claimed to have replied: "So far the plan is to run over a cop or (sic)
the Anzac Parade and then continue to kill a cop then take ghanimah (a trophy
taken from battle) and run to shahadah (statement of worship)."

Messages claimed to be from Besim said again that Anzac Day was a good day for
the attack because "this will mean they will remember this on that day every
year after" and the defendant replied: "Anzac Day it is."

The teenager quizzed Besim on his allegiance to Islamic State by asking
questions such as "where is Allah?" and who his spiritual leader was.

Besim allegedly replied: "Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi" - the leader of Islamic State.

The following day the defendant told Besim to make sure he was shot during the
attack.

He received a reply: "I feel lik a young kid with a ticket to disney world cant
wait ahahah. Yeh I wanna make sure I get shot to. Not b4 I take out at least 1."

Hours later the defendant was under arrested in the north west of England
following a joint investigation by British and Australian authorities.

No attack was carried out at the parade.

The youth had found an online jihadist community through his first smartphone
which "filled a void" caused by problems he was having at school and at home as
well as a degenerative eye condition.

Within two weeks of setting up a Twitter account he had 24,000 followers as he
constructed a fantasy image of himself and "quickly became a celebrity" within
the jihadi Twitter community.

His contact with Besim was instigated by a well-known Isis recruiter and
propagandist named Abu Khaled al-Cambodi, himself an Australian, who has
promoted the idea of terrorist attacks in his homeland, the court was told.

Sentencing, Mr Justice Saunders told Manchester Crown Court: "The revelation in
this case that someone of only 14 could have become so radicalised that he was
prepared to carry out this role intending and wishing that people should die is
chilling.

"Thanks to the intervention of the police in this country and in Australia, that
attack and the deaths which were intended to follow never happened.

"Had the authorities not intervened, (the defendant) would have continued to
play his part hoping and intending that the outcome would be the deaths of a
number of people.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 2, 2015 Friday 12:44 PM GMT

"Police are our target": How Britain's youngest ever terrorist became inspired
by ISIS to plot cop killing;
The teen, from Blackburn, was just 14 when he sent the shocking string of
messages to Australian Sevdit Besim, 18, discussing a terror attack on police

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


Instant messages sent by a Lancashire teenager inspired by Islamic State reveal
the bloody-thirsty chats which saw him become Britain's youngest convicted
terrorist.

Manchester Crown Court heard the teen, from Blackburn, was just 14 when he sent
a shocking string of messages to Australian Sevdit Besim, 18, discussing a
terror attack on police in Melbourne.

The British boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, discussed how Besim
could 'tear through the throat' of victims with a machete at the Anzac Day
parade on April 25 last year.

Over 10 days from March 15 the pair were said to have exchanged more than 3,000
encrypted instant messages.

The teenager went through options for the attack and even quizzed Besim on his
loyalty to Islamic State before taking the conversation further.

Spelling out his intentions to Besim, he wrote: "I'm gonna present you three
options. Knife attack on police etc. Car op on police. Gun attack on police."

In messages shown to the court, Besim is said to have replied: "All so good."

When counter-terror police raided the 14-year-old's house they found a carved,
wooden Box with 'Islamic State' written on the front and an Islamic State
magazine called 'Dabiq: The Return of the Khalifah'.

Officers also found the 14-year-old had changed his mobile phone background to a
picture of militants holding the Islamic State flag.

Chat logs reveal how the teenager suggested carrying out a practice beheading in
the hours before an attack on police at the Anzac Day parade.

He told Besim: "Suggest you break into someone's house and get your first taste
of beheading. Let all dat (sic) anger out. I'm talking a proper lonely person."

Besim is said replied he thought the practice beheading would be "a bit risky"
before saying he wanted to murder a police officer in an apparent copycat
killing of tragic soldier Lee Rigby.

The tragic Fusilier was beheaded in the street in Woolwich after being run over
with a car.

A message shown to the court, allegedly from Besim, said: "If I can't get a
weapon, I wanna jus (sic) drive find a cop walking run him over... and leave his
head a few metres from his body."

The British boy also discussed a large machete which would be used in the
attack.

He said: "(The) handle is perfect for tearing through throat."

Besim is claimed to have replied: "So far the plan is to run over a cop or (sic)
the Anzac Parade and then continue to kill a cop then take ghanimah (a trophy
taken from battle) and run to shahadah (statement of worship)."

Messages claimed to be from Besim said again that Anzac Day was a good day for
the attack because "this will mean they will remember this on that day every
year after" and the defendant replied: "Anzac Day it is."

The teenager quizzed Besim on his allegiance to Islamic State by asking
questions such as "where is Allah?" and who his spiritual leader was.

Besim allegedly replied: "Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi" - the leader of Islamic State.

The following day the defendant told Besim to make sure he was shot during the
attack.

He received a reply: "I feel lik a young kid with a ticket to disney world cant
wait ahahah. Yeh I wanna make sure I get shot to. Not b4 I take out at least 1."

Hours later the defendant was under arrested in the north west of England
following a joint investigation by British and Australian authorities.

No attack was carried out at the parade.

Sentencing, Mr Justice Saunders told Manchester Crown Court: "The revelation in
this case that someone of only 14 could have become so radicalised that he was
prepared to carry out this role intending and wishing that people should die is
chilling.

"Thanks to the intervention of the police in this country and in Australia, that
attack and the deaths which were intended to follow never happened.

"Had the authorities not intervened, (the defendant) would have continued to
play his part hoping and intending that the outcome would be the deaths of a
number of people.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 2, 2015 Friday 3:00 PM GMT

Israel's top diplomat tells the UN: 'Palestinian children dream of blowing up
Jews';
Israel's deputy foreign minister, Tzipi Hotoveli, reportedly told UN delegates
that Palestinian children dream of becoming engineers so that they can make
explosive devices and carry out terror attacks

BYLINE: By Inna Lazareva Tel Aviv

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


Israel's deputy foreign minister, Tzipi Hotoveli, sparked a diplomatic spat when
she made a series of inflammatory comments at a UN conference in New York on
Thursday.

Ms Hotoveli, a religious hardliner, told UN delegates that while Israeli
children dream of becoming engineers so that they can contribute to the nation,
Palestinian children dream of becoming engineers so that they can make explosive
devices and carry out terror attacks,  Israeli daily Haaretz reported on Friday
.

Speaking at a conference of donors to the Palestinian Authority, Ms Hotoveli
stated that none of the economic efforts will achieve their goal until "the
basic values of the Palestinian Authority change", Times of Israel reported.

"As long as Palestinian children dream of becoming engineers 'to blow up Jews,'
none of these economic efforts will achieve their goal."

·  Seven Israelis charged over first 'plot to launch Isil attacks' in country

Jordanian foreign minister Nasser Judeh responded angrily to Ms Hotoveli's
remarks, abandoning his pre-planned speech in order to answer her accusations.

"I have a written address, but I don't plan to give it because I can't not
respond to what we've heard from the Israeli representative," Mr Judeh said,
quoted in Haaretz.

During his remarks, the Jordanian foreign minister reportedly accused Israeli
security forces of "defiling al-Aksa mosque with their feet" - in reference to
the ongoing clashes on the volatile compound which is holy to both Jews and
Muslims. According to media reports, Ms Hotoveli repeatedly interrupted Mr Judeh
in violation of diplomatic protocol.

The role of Israel's foreign minister is currently held by the country's prime
minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and as such Ms Hotoveli holds the post of the
country's top diplomat.

This is not the first time Ms Hotoveli stirred controversy with her hardline
views.

While Mr Netanyahu addressed the UN on Thursday and offered Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas to "immediately, resume direct peace negotiations with
the Palestinian Authority without any preconditions whatsoever ", Ms Hotoveli
contradicted the PM when she told The Times of Israel earlier this week that
"[Handovers of] Judea and Samaria aren't even on the list of options we're
offering the Palestinians," using the Biblical term for the West Bank.

In a speech given in May, Ms Hotoveli said that she expects the international
community to recognise "Israel's right" to construct homes "everywhere" -
including settlements in the occupied West Bank.

"We need to return to the basic truth of our rights to this country," she said.
"This land is ours. All of it is ours. We did not come here to apologise for
that."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

Ukrainian security service thwarts terror attack, detains suspected saboteur

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 3 October

A militant planning to carry out a terrorist attack at a checkpoint of
antiterrorist operation forces in Dzerzhynsk has been detained by the security
service [SBU].

According to the agency, this citizen voluntarily joined an illegal armed group
of the so-called DPR [self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic] last year.

After the occupied territories were liberated, he was tasked with returning to
districts controlled by the Ukrainian authorities in order to carry out acts of
sabotage.

The militant made an explosive device which he planned to use to blow up the
Ukrainian army's checkpoint.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1500 gmt 3 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 3, 2015 Saturday 2:19 AM GMT

Gunman who shot IT worker dead at police HQ in Parramatta was a 15yo radicalised
youth who visited a mosque on his way to commit murder - as police confirm the
attack was 'an act of terrorism'

BYLINE: LEITH HUFFADINE, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI, JENNY AWFORD and CANDACE SUTTON FOR
DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1930 words



     ·    Lone gunman shot dead police finance department employee Curtis Cheng
     ·    The killer was a 15-year-old 'radicalised'  of middle eastern
          background
     ·    Police confirmed the teen's actions were terror-related
     ·    A ssailant, dressed in black, was shot outside police HQ in Parramatta
     ·    He revealed a number of warnings had been sent round in past two years


The shooter at the centre of the Parramatta police HQ terror attack was a
15-year-old boy from Iran.

The 'radicalised' youth gunned down police finance department employee and
father-of-two Curtis Cheng at close range before being killed by a police
officer.

In a press conference with New South Wales premiere Mike Baird, Police
commissioner Andrew Scipione confirmed the teens actions were 'politically
motivated and therefore linked to terrorism'.

En route to the killing the youth, originally from Iran, had visited Parramatta
Mosque,  The Daily Telegraph  reported.

Witnesses of the attack on Friday afternoon said after the killing, the teen
paraded in front of the police station with his weapon chanting 'Allah, Allah',
it was reported.

Scroll down for video

Strikeforce Fellows has been set up to investigate and police are working with
Islamic communities who have offered their support, Commissioner Scipione says.

Police had been in contact with the killer's family.

The youth had an Iraqi and Kurdish background.

NSW premiere Mike Baird called for Sydney and state communities to 'stay
together' in the wake of the attack.

'We can not let actions such as these divide us... we have to come together.'

The killer carried no identification and it was believed his brother contacted
police with his identity, the Daily Telegraph reported.

The gunman, at present believed to have been acting alone, shot dead Mr Cheng at
close range outside the Parramatta police headquarters in a targeted attack on
Friday, which has been described as a 'brutal' and 'callous murder'.

The assailant, dressed all in black, fired a number of shots at special
constables guarding the NSW Police station in Sydney, before he was gunned down
and killed by one of the officers.

Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione said Mr Cheng was 'simply leaving work' when
he was shot in the back of the head by the gunman who was wearing 'dark trousers
and a flowing top'.

The commissioner revealed a number of warnings had been sent round to police in
the past two years reminding them to be 'vigilant' about attacks, but assured
that the people of NSW were 'safe'.

'I have viewed a number of pieces of footage, I can tell you that this was a
brutal crime. It was a terrible crime.

'We're attempting to identify a man who was seen to approach the victim and
discharge one single shot. Subsequently the assailant remained in the street
here in Charles Street before he fired several further shots at a special
constable.

'A number of special constables came out of the building and as they've emerged
they've come under fire.

'In the exchange that followed the gunman was shot and killed. An employee of
the NSW police force has been callously murdered here today. This is a very
sobering time for us.'

The gunman reportedly walked past one female police officer before opening fire,
according to the Daily Telegraph.

He allegedly acted 'aggressively' after shooting the IT worker at around 4.30pm
and was seen screaming and brandishing his gun in the street.

The assailant was then killed in a shoot-out with three special constables just
metres from the police station.

Commissioner Scipione said it was likely the gunman waited around after the
murder in order to 'commit suicide by cop'.

It was previously reported that there had been increased 'chatter' in the past
week about a possible attack on the Parramatta headquarters.

Sources said the building had been 'cased' and that every officer had been
ordered to wear their guns on them at all times this week, even while at their
desks.

When questioned about whether police were aware on a possible attack at the
station, Commissioner Scipione revealed there had been a number of alerts in
2014 and 2015.

'There has been activity around a number of locations in NSW, they're the things
we communicate to our ­officers,' Commissioner Scipione said.

'We have drawn officers back to the special warnings which are contained within
alert 2015.

'We've refreshed that alert and yet again highlighted the importance of
remaining vigilant and being ready to respond should they have to at any
location but particularly around police stations. I want to ensure that we don't
jump to conclusions, as I've said.

'I've indicated that but we're keeping an open mind. At this stage we've got
nothing to link this event to any terrorist-related activity but we could not
say that that wasn't the case. So clearly you would understand we have officers
from within the counter-terrorism command.'

The NSW Police Force building is home to the State Crime Command, which includes
the homicide, drug, Middle Eastern organised crime and gangs squads.

An investigation was believed to be underway into whether the shooter had been
recently charged by a detective from one of the State Crime Command squads.

He was also quizzed about whether staff had allegedly been sent a number of
emails warning about men who had been taking photographs of the building's
entrance.

Commissioner Scipione said detectives believed the civilian worker was
'deliberately targeted' and revealed he had been shot at almost point-blank
range.

'The footage that I've viewed shows that this particular man was certainly
targeted,' he said.

But he did not elaborate on whether he was known to the gunman or whether he was
attacked because of his  IT activities.

Police believe the gunman was not working with anyone else, but have not ruled
out the possibility there may be others involved.

The commissioner praised the bravery of the officers who put themselves in the
firing line and offered his condolences to the family of the public servant who
lost his life.

Speaking to the media at around 9pm Friday, he said the relatives of the public
servant had not been informed and would not go into any details about his
identity.

'This man was simply leaving work this afternoon and he was gunned down. He was
murdered on this street, this very street,' he said.

Detectives launched a level one critical incident, the highest order they can
give, after the attack.

Witnesses reported seeing two bodies lying on the ground covered in white sheets
just metres apart.

Both bodies were still at the scene about midnight.

Dozens of police officers were seen combing the area where the shooting took
place from around 10pm, searching for clues.

Investigators also aimed huge spotlights at neighbouring apartments during the
operation.

Residents were evacuated from their homes in buildings nearby the police station
and most were allowed to return just after 11pm.

Real estate agent Edwin Almeida said he saw a man with a gun screaming and
pacing up and down outside the building on Charles Street.

He said he then saw the man lying on the ground with a police officer pointing a
gun at him.

'We looked out the window, saw security guards and what appeared to be a plain
clothes police officer with gun drawn pointing at the person that was now lying
on the floor surrounded by a pool of blood,' he said.

He wrote on his Facebook page: 'Four five shots fired by man outside our office
and in front of NSW police head quarters. Man shot down by guards and
detectives.'

A man called Nathan told 2GB Radio that he saw a man lying on the street
surrounded by blood.

'I saw the guy dressed in black on the pavement with blood everywhere,' he said.



Shopkeeper Sammy Shak told The Daily Telegraph he saw two bodies on the ground
after hearing 'six shots at least'.

'WE'RE KEEPING AN OPEN MIND': COMMISSIONER'S COMMENTS ON MOTIVE

Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione refused to be drawn on whether the double
shooting was terror-related and said detectives do not yet know the motive.

In his media briefing on Friday night, he said: 'We don't know the motive and we
don't yet know who the gunman is but he has committed an appalling act of
brutality.

'I want to ensure that we don't jump to conclusions, as I've said, we're keeping
an open mind but there is an investigation that's on foot.

'At this stage we've got nothing to link this event to any terrorist-related
activity but we could not say that that wasn't the case.

'So clearly you would understand we have officers from within the
counter-terrorism command working alongside homicide but this is a homicide
investigation led by homicide.'

'My message to the people of NSW is that they are safe. There is no threat that
we're dealing with that at this stage we haven't resolved here.

'We will get to the bottom of this matter, the investigation will be conducted,
it will be very thorough and we'll do that as soon as we possibly can.'

'When I went out there was two bodies on the floor and there was cops everywhere
all around the area and they told me to go inside the shop straight away,' he
said.

Channel Seven helicopter pilot Andrew Millett said two bodies were visible about
200m from the police station.

Finance worker Rizwan Shaikh, who lives opposite the police headquarters, said
he heard the shooting.

'I finished work and was in the shower and I heard the gunshots,' Mr Shaikh told
The Daily Telegraph.

'I heard six or seven gunshots and it was pretty loud. In two to three minutes
there were cops everywhere.'

Miffy Hong, 33, said her mother called her just after 5pm to tell her she could
see a body covered by a sheer near police headquarters.

'She told me come back I don't know what's happening, she doesn't speak
English,' she said.

The attack occurred outside a daycare centre used by police force families and
the children were locked inside for four hours after the shooting with a dead
body at their doorstep.

Parents of the children locked inside Goodstart Early Learning voiced fears
about their welfare.

Dennis Entriken, whose three-year-old daughter was not allowed to leave for four
hours, told Daily Mail Australia: 'It's very frustrating. One of the dead bodies
is right out of the front of the chilcare centre.

'What did they see, what did they hear? Is she scared? Is she OK?

'They've told us she's safe which is good... it's the unknown which is the
issue.

'If she saw nothing and she's blissfully unaware then that's good,' he said.

In his press conference on Friday night, Commissioner Scipione confirmed that
all the children were safe.

'Everyone's safe, that's the good news. There was certainly no suggestion of
anyone being injured there. That's certainly very pleasing to us.

Police had set up a 2km exclusion zone after the shooting at around 4.30pm.

A section of Charles Street between Macquarie Street and Hassall Street was
cordoned off.

Officers in body armour were seen patrolling the Parramatta CBD and guarding
train stations.

A critical incident team from the State Crime Command's Homicide Squad will
conduct an investigation overseen by the Coroner, followed by an inquest.

Commissioner Scipione said a major events team was looking at the incident with
a view to the NRL grand final, but said security for the match at the ANZ
Stadium on Sunday night was already high.

'My message to people across NSW is that there is nothing to fear. Go about your
business including this weekend's major sporting events. We will do our job and
get to the bottom of what has happened,' he said.

Anyone with any information is asked to call Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      October 4, 2015 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

Online DIY guide published by ISIS for jihadi terrorists to carry out attacks in
the UK

BYLINE: Patrick Williams

LENGTH: 367 words


ISIS warlords have published a chilling armchair guide to war so jihadists can
mount lone wolf attacks in the UK.

IG/GETTY

BOOK OF TERROR: An online guide shows jihadis how to carry out attacks in the UK

The Book Of Terror has been published so fanatics can train in the comfort of
their own homes.

The detailed fitness, bombing-making and weapons training guide is packaged to
ape combat history magazines.

The English language guide tells militants to bring terror to Western nations,
saying: "It is every Muslim's obligation to strike in the hearts of the enemies
of Allah and his beloved messenger Saw.

"A guide to strike terror in the hearts of the Kuffar in the West."

brightcove.createExperiences;

GETTY

GETTY

TRAINING: The 14 volumes have been uploaded to file sharing sites to be
downloaded  ISIS warlords

The online volumes include interrogation methods claimed to have been taken from
US army and CIA training manuals.

Posters for the guide include a backdrop of masked fighters and the Eiffel Tower
engulfed in flames.

The work shows detailed workouts, martial arts training, obstacle courses and
classes on weapons assembly, room clearing and vehicle operations.

IG

TERROR: The online manual

Other chapters cover explosives, sniper tactics and a section on grilling
prisoners said to come from the US military.

The 14 volumes have been uploaded to file sharing sites across the internet so
they can be downloaded.

Isis warlords boast of copying American guides, saying: "We will use all the
efforts, research and money that the US has so kindly invested in their very own
manuals for their own soldiers only to be used against them, soon!"

Related articles Russia SMASHES 12 ISIS targets as war ERUPTS in Syria Vladi
zaps Jihadi: 12 ISIS fighters killed as Putin gives Syria pounding ISIS
decapitate prisoners as Putin's bombers continue to target jihadi strongholds

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 4, 2015 Sunday 8:34 AM GMT

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop announces sister of Parramatta gunman, 15, faces a
full investigation after 'she travelled to Turkey a day before the terror
attack'

BYLINE: LIAM QUINN and JENNY AWFORD FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words



     ·    Farhad Jabar Khalil Mohammad stormed police headquarters in Parramatta
     ·    He shot dead accountant Curtis Cheng, 58, outside station in Sydney
     ·    His sister may have been trying to reach Syria the day before the
          shooting
     ·    Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says sister will face a full
          investigation


Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said the entirety of Australia's police and
security agencies are investigating the sister of Parramatta gunman, Farhad
Jabar Khalil.

Ms Bishop made the comments during  ABC's Insiders  on Sunday morning.

When asked about reports Farhad's sister had travelled to Turkey the day before
the attack, Ms Bishop said it was under investigation.

'This is a matter that is under active investigation by all our security,
intelligence and law enforcement agencies,' Ms Bishop said.

'I can't go into the details. This is an ongoing investigation but it really
does highlight the challenge that we have before us.'

The Foreign Minister also said the incident is something that should have an
impact on all Australians.

'Clearly this is a tragic incident. It's tragic for the family of the police
worker, for the community and Australia as a whole,' Ms Bishop said.

'When a 15-year-old boy can be so radicalised that he can carry out a
politically motivated killing or an act of terrorism, then it's a time for the
whole nation to take stock.'

Ms Bishop's comments come after it was earlier revealed Farhad's sister was
trying to reach the Middle East.

It has emerged that his sister Shadi may have been attempting to reach Iraq or
Syria the day before the shooting as she flew out of Australia on a flight bound
for Istanbul on Thursday.

She reportedly took all her belongings with her, according to the ABC.

Farhad, who is of Iraqi-Kurdish background and is reported to be a Sunni Muslim,
is understood to have been living with his family in an apartment block in North
Parramatta.

Police said the teenager was not on their radar, but revealed that his relative
was known to law enforcement or intelligence agencies.

'[The relative] was a bit of a problem, he did come to the attention of police
and counter-terrorism [authorities],' a source told ABC.

Detectives are now trying to track down members of Farhad's family to help in
their investigation, including his older sister.

The 15-year-old's brother contacted police following the attack and has spoken
extensively to detectives.

Farhad is believed to be a student at Arthur Phillip High, which is just 300m
from where the double shooting took place.

Officers searched the teenager's North Parramatta family home on Friday and took
his computer equipment.

But they revealed they had not yet discovered any messages, religious writings
or notes left by Farhad.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      October 5, 2015 Monday 12:05 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack survivor Owen Richards: 'Tragedy has helped me realise
what's important in life';
Walsall student, 16, talks for first time about life after losing his brother,
uncle and granddad in atrocity

BYLINE: By Zoe Chamberlain

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2027 words


You could hear the applause out in the street. It was, said seasoned
theatregoers, the longest standing ovation seen at the city's historic Town
Hall.

And there, up on the famous stage, a modest young man seemed surprised by the
rapturous reception afforded him.

On Friday night schoolboy Owen Richards, just 16, was presented with a special
recognition award at Pride of Birmingham 2015.

Judges had added the award to the Pride roster because they were so deeply
impressed by his courage, his compassion and his caring.

Because Owen Richards' story may well be the most remarkable account of
strength, spirit and determination you will ever hear.

On June 26, 2015 the Wednesbury teenager lost his brother, uncle and granddad
when they became victims of a terrorist gunman on the beach in Port El Kantaoui.

Joel Richards, 19, Adrian Evans, 44, and Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78, all died.

He has never spoken about it until today. And, indeed, he will still not dwell
on the detail of the day his life changed forever.

But Owen and his family have opened their hearts and photo album to the
Birmingham Mail, organisers of the Pride of Birmingham awards.

His special award was in recognition of the amazing support and hope he has
given others since his return from Tunisia.

Because Owen has been a rock for his grieving mum Suzanne, who lost a son, a
brother and a father in the shootings near the city of Sousse.

He has been there for his grandma Maureen, who lost a husband on that day.

And, remarkably, he has continued to help other victims of the atrocity, in
particular friends Naomi Wearing and Lucy Pettit whom he met in hospital in
Tunisia.

Naomi, 18 from Blackburn, and Lucy, 23, from Slough, say he has helped them
through continuing hospital treatment back in the UK, keeping in touch and
offering encouragement, helping them in their recovery.

"I was the youngest person involved," says Owen, who had turned 16 just a month
before the attack.

"Lucy and Naomi were the closest in age group to me.

"We met in hospital in Tunisia and kept in touch when we got home, texting and
messaging each other regularly.

"We can relate to each other and what we went through in a way that people who
weren't there cannot."

And he says that what happened in Sousse has changed his outlook on life.

"When people moan about stuff, you think 'Just shut up'," he explains. "It makes
you realise what's important."

Owen and his brother Joel, 19, had been treated to the holiday with their uncle
Adrian and granddad Pat as a reward for working so hard for their exams.

They had an exciting summer planned, too.

Owen was aiming to get back in time for his school prom; Joel, a promising
footballer and referee, was going out to Hungary to ref some matches; then they
were looking forward to a holiday with their mum.

It should have been among the happiest times of their lives. The shooting
changed everything.

The first Suzanne heard of the terrible news was when Owen rang her from Tunisia
on June 26.

"That morning everything had been normal," she recalls. "Then there was that one
phone call and everything changed.

"It happened so quickly.

"Owen was using someone else's phone so he couldn't speak for long. I could
hardly believe what he was saying. But I put the TV on and realised it was real.

"I'm so glad Owen rang and that I found out from him rather than just hearing
about it on the news. Otherwise I wouldn't have known if he was OK.

"I felt so helpless because I was so far away.

"But within eight hours I was on a flight to reach him. The airline diverted a
plane to pick me up. The plane was empty because it was going to bring everyone
home.

"Owen was 16 and he was on his own. He'd only got Lucy and Naomi with him.

"When I reached him, we had lots of hugs and tears, it was such a relief to get
to him."

When mum and son returned home, it was to plan a funeral.

But Owen stoically and resolutely began picking up the pieces.

He surprised everyone by his strength - attending that school prom just five
days after returning from Tunisia.

"Joel and Owen went out to choose Owen's prom outfit the day before they went on
holiday," reveals Suzanne.

"Then he went out to Tunisia on the Thursday. He was planning to have a nice tan
ready for his prom the day after they got back.

"But, of course, he came home on the Sunday instead.

"It shows his strength that he carried on and went to the prom five days later.

"It was a big decision whether or not to go.

"When he turned up, people gasped when they saw him. But then all his mates came
round and they treated him like normal.

"He has been unbelievably strong, especially for his age."

Not only did Owen make it to his prom, but he also went on to help run Design
and Technology (DT) sessions at a special summer school to help integrate the
new year seven pupils, help them get to grips with the move to a bigger school.

"I made metal key-rings with them," says Owen. "I've got into DT more recently,
I've made a shelving unit, too."

It was, understandably, a bittersweet moment when Owen's GCSE results came
through - because they had been one of the reasons for the trip to Tunisia.

He got 10 GCSEs, three A*s, two As, three Bs and two Cs.

Recently, Owen started sixth form at Stuart Bathurst RC High School and College
in Wednesbury, where he is studying A level maths, physics, biology and PE.

And he has even done a shift for clothes store Next, where he plans to work over
the busy Christmas period.

"It will be good to be busy," he says simply.

His mum says Owen is the one who gives her the strength to cope with what has
happened.

"I was always a real planner," says Suzanne, who is a lecturer in travel and
tourism at Walsall College.

"It was all mapped out, that Owen was going to his prom, then Joel was going to
referee in Hungary and we were going to go on a family holiday.

"Now, we just get through one day at a time, put one foot in front of the other.

"Owen keeps me strong, I think if he can get up and carry on, then so can I.

"There's only me and my mum and Owen now. We have to make sure she's OK every
day, too.

"We were really close as a six, constantly in touch, every day.

"What's hard for Owen is he has lost his three male family members, and he
misses them so much.

"That's tough. They always went to football matches together.

"But he's been back to football since with one of his uncle's friends."

One of the last photos of all four together was outside Wembley, where their
beloved Walsall were playing the Johnstone's Paint Trophy final against Bristol
City. The Saddlers have been very supportive of the family since the tragedy.

"At the first season's game, they all started clapping at 19 minutes, then at 49
minutes, then at 78 minutes - that was their ages," says Suzanne.

The club also arranged for Owen to go to an away game at Morecambe FC on the
team coach.

"It was good," says Owen. "I sat near the driver on the way because I was too
nervous to sit with the team at the back, but the driver was great.

"Once I was there, I was given a team tracksuit so that I looked like part of
the club and I was given an 'access all areas' pass.

"I sat with the team on the way back. Unfortunately we lost, but we all had fish
and chips!

"I was quite surprised by that. They had to put the order in before the match
because there were so many people.

"I loved it."

The Football Association has produced 'Keep Calm and Smile for Joel' white
wristbands to raise money to help provide for Owen if and when he goes to
university.

"Owen misses his brother," says Suzanne. "He looked up to him for everything.
They had a fantastic relationship. There was four years between them.

"Joel would always cover for him. I'd ask Owen to do something and Joel would
say 'Let him carry on playing on the Playstation, I'll do it.'

"Owen was quite shy so to see him going out and speaking to people now is
amazing.

"He has really grown and matured in these last few months."

Owen was surprised when he learned he'd been nominated for a Pride of Birmingham
award.

His support worker Katie Battle, from Victim Support, says: "Owen felt so
humbled. He couldn't see what he'd done that was so brave. He didn't feel worthy
of it.

"How could he feel courageous when he was feeling so lost and so low?

"A lot of people would have been overwhelmed, but Owen is so strong. Most people
would not have that courage in them.

"This is still only the beginning of his journey - he's got a long way to go.

"Owen's GCSE grades seemed trivial to him when they came through because he
would swap them in a heartbeat for what he's lost.

"But he's really taken people's advice on board and is realising that what
doesn't seem important now may well be important in 20 years' time.

"The fact that he's taking advice on his future is amazing, he's making everyone
really proud.

"And he's always thinking about other people, looking out for his friends and
family."

*********************************************

THE gunman opened fire at Port El Kantaoui, just north of the city of Sousse.

Thirty-eight people, 30 of whom were British, were killed outside the five-star
Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The killer, Seifeddine Rezgui Yacoubi, had disguised himself as a tourist before
taking out a Kalashnikov assault rifle concealed in a beach umbrella and opening
fire.

He was later killed by security forces during an exchange of fire.

As well as Joel Richards, Adrian Evans, and Charles Evans, other Midland
fatalities were former Birmingham City FC player Dennis Thwaites, 70, and his
wife Elaine, 69, and Tamworth mum Sue Davey, 44.

Naomi Wearing and her mum Carol were injured when the Tunisia gunman threw a
grenade.

But they became separated when they were rushed to hospital.

Naomi, 18, found herself in the same room as Owen Richards - and the two struck
up a friendship that has continued since their return to the UK.

"Owen was put in a hospital room with me at first and we just got talking," she
says.

"And that conversation has continued. We speak every week now, sometimes a few
times a week, mainly by text message.

"We just like to check in with each other.

"To have someone to talk to of a similar age who has been through the same thing
is such a big support.

"It's not just what happened in Sousse that we talk about.

"We are really close friends now so we talk about anything and everything with
each other. We just understand.

"Owen is a really nice person, I'm really proud of him.

"He definitely deserves the Pride of Birmingham award, 100 per cent!"

*********************************************

Maisie Williams Pride of Birmingham

OWEN and Joel were huge fans of fantasy series Game Of Thrones and classic
comedy Only Fools and Horses.

And at the Pride of Birmingham Awards stars from both shows sent special video
messages.

Maisie Williams, who plays Arya Stark in Game of Thrones and is shortly to
appear in Doctor Who, said:

"Hi Owen. I hear you're a fan of Game Of Thrones and, in particular, a supporter
of House Stark.

"We Starks look out for each other, as I'm sure you'll know - and I hear you're
just the same.

"Lucy and Naomi have been telling us how you've been helping them pull through.

"Your strength and support is something they value very much."

"You've been there for them, keeping in touch, caring for your friends.

"After everything you've been through, that's something very special.

"Everyone at Game of Thrones sends their best wishes and thanks you tonight.

"You really are the Pride of Birmingham."

Boycie Pride of Birmingham

John Challis, in character as Only Fools used car salesman Boycie, said:

"Good day to you Owen. Boycie here. We were only talking about you the other
night in the Nag's Head.

"Now Marlene tells me you've been a good friend to Naomi and Lucy, geeing them
along.

"It's very important to have good friends, especially when times are rough.

"How d'you think Del and Rodney got through all their problems, eh?

"Me and Del, Rodney, Denzel, all the boys and girls wish you all the very best,

"We're thinking of you. Brum is proud of you, as I expect you know.

"So enjoy your evening and shake a stick at life!"

Have you got our free app? Download it to keep up to date with all the latest
news, sport and what's on stories. On iOS? download here or for Android click
here

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 5, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tunisia beach terror attack survivor tells of his ordeal

BYLINE: ZOE CHAMBERLAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 208 words


A BRAVE teenager who survived the Tunisia beach massacre has spoken out for the
first time.

Owen Richards, 16, lost his brother, uncle and grandad when Seifeddine Rezgui
shot dead 30 British tourists in Sousse.

Describing how the ordeal changed his outlook, Owen said: "When people moan
about stuff, you think, 'Just shut up'. It makes you realise what's important."

Owen was grazed in the shoulder by one of the bullets that killed brother Joel,
19, uncle Adrian Evans, 44, and grandad Charles Evans, 79, on June 26.

The brothers, of Wednesbury, West Mids, had been treated to the holiday as a
reward for working hard for their exams. Owen told the Birmingham Mail that
fellow survivors Naomi Wearing, 18, and Lucy Pettit, 23, had supported him since
they struck up a friendship in a Tunisian hospital.

He said they continued to keep in touch and added: "We can relate to each other
and what we went through in a way people who weren't there cannot."

Owen's mum Suzanne said he had been her rock.

She said: "He has been unbelievably strong, especially for his age.

"Owen keeps me strong, I think if he can get up and carry on, then so can I. "He
has lost his three male family members and he misses them so much.

"Owen misses his brother.

He looked up to him."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STRONG Owen Richards, 16BREAK Start of holiday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 5, 2015 Monday 10:48 AM GMT

Australia warns terrorist attacks could occur at anytime in Philippines;
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade asks Australians to 'exercise a high
degree of caution' in the Philippines

BYLINE: Staff and agencies

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 222 words


The high threat of a terrorist attack and violent crime has prompted Australia
to update its travel advice for the Philippines.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's Smartraveller website now asks
Australians to "exercise a high degree of caution".

Related: Three journalists murdered in two weeks in the Philippines

"Terrorist attacks could occur at anytime, anywhere in the Philippines,
including in Manila," it says.

It adds that "Violent crime is a significant problem in the Philippines."

On 21 September, three foreign nationals and a local were kidnapped from a
resort on Samal island, near Davao City.

The two Canadian tourists, a Norwegian resort manager and a Filipino woman were
taken by unidentified gunmen.

Two Japanese tourists reportedly tried to intervene to stop the abduction but
the attackers made off with the four captives by boat.

Military and police officials were surprised by the attack, which came as a
reminder of a volatile security situation despite recent peace initiatives with
Islamist rebels.

Australians are advised to reconsider their need to travel to eastern Mindanao
and not to travel to central and western Mindanao.

The level of advice has not changed, but was reviewed and reissued on Saturday.

Australian Associated Press contributed to this report

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 5, 2015 Monday 12:56 PM GMT

Foul stench sparks fears of terror attack on train travelling from Brussels to
Marseille... but it was just a package of smelly meat in a passenger's bag

BYLINE: CHRIS KITCHING FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 338 words



     ·    TGV train came to halt halfway through its journey as smell was
          detected
     ·    Specialists arrived after those on board complained of an odour of gas
     ·    Train was searched by firefighters wearing full-body protective suits
     ·    It turned out the smell was coming from fermenting meat in a suitcase


A high-speed train carrying holidaymakers from Belgium to France had to be
evacuated when a suspicious smell sparked fears of a terror attack.

Specialists wearing full-body protective suits boarded to investigate an odour
of gas, but put an end to the scare as they searched one of the carriages and
made a discovery in a passenger's luggage.

It turned out the foul smell was emanating from fermenting meat that belonged to
the passenger - not dangerous chemicals.

About 250 passengers were forced to leave the train in the French region of
Burgundy when 'a suspicious gas smell' was detected on board, The Local
reported.

The TGV train was about halfway into its five-hour journey from Brussels to
Marseille.

One carriage continued on to Marseille, while another was evacuated and searched
by firefighters from a nuclear, biological and chemical risk unit, a spokesman
for the SNCF rail operator told The Local.

Within three hours the firefighters had identified the stench and the passengers
were continuing their journey to the Mediterranean.

French officials have told rail passengers to report any suspicious activity or
objects in the wake of a handful of terror attacks.

In August, three Americans and a British grandfather who helped to restrain a
terrorist on board a train were awarded France's highest honour for bravery.

U.S. Airman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, their friend
Anthony Sadler and Briton Chris Norman were presented with the Legion d'Honneur
by French President Francois Hollande.

American professor Mark Moogalian, an academic at the University of Paris, was
shot in the neck as he fought with the gunman, Ayoub El-Khazzani, before the
others raced to help on board the high-speed service from Amsterdam to Paris.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             October 5, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fallon: We risk IS terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words


BRITISH streets are in danger of terror attacks if Britain fails to back
stronger military action against Islamic State, the Tory conference was told.

Defence secretary Michael Fallon (pictured) insisted the UK faced its 'most
serious threat in a generation' from militants.

'We should not leave it to French, Australian, or US aircraft to keep our own
streets safe,' he said.

His comments signalled that ministers will push ahead with a new Commons vote to
expand Britain's campaign from Iraq into Syria.

Meanwhile, foreign secretary Philip Hammond claimed Jeremy Corbyn could put
national security at risk by refusing to renew Trident.

'Turn your fire on IS': Page 9 »

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 5:01 PM GMT

Air France chiefs flee in terror as furious union members launch attack over job
cuts;
Bosses ran away in ripped suits and scrambled over fences to escape after
protesters stormed the site in Roissy, near Paris

BYLINE: By Ian Sparks

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 199 words


Air France chiefs fled their headquarters in terror as union members attacked
them during a meeting over 2,900 job cuts .

Bosses ran away in ripped suits and scrambled over fences to escape after
protesters stormed the site in Roissy, near Paris.

Chief executive Frederic Gagey had to leap from the building and HR manager
Xavier Broseta said he was "almost lynched".

Transport Secretary Alain Vidalies said the violence was unacceptable and the
culprits would be punished.

The board was meeting to debate plans to slash jobs in the face of fierce global
competition.

They are also trying to urge pilots, who earn up to £200,000, to fly 100 more
hours annually for the same salary.

Air France management released a statement condemning the 'physical violence'
and said it would file police complaints.

Unions have called for all-out strike action if the job cuts go ahead and
branded the negotiations with workers as a 'parody'.

But the French government, which owns a 17.6-percent stake in Air France has
criticized the pilots, with Prime Minister Manuel Valls denouncing their
'hard-line attitude'.

He said at the weekend: "If Air France does not evolve then it puts itself in
danger."

Air France Protests

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 8:04 AM GMT

Brave boy whose brother, uncle and grandfather were killed in Tunisia terror
attack speaks out;
Owen Richards, 16, has been a rock to his mother and grandmother since the
massacre that cost them their loved ones

BYLINE: By Zoe Chamberlain

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 2148 words


A brave teenager who survived the Tunisia beach massacre has spoken out for the
first time.

Owen Richards, 16, lost his brother, uncle and grandad when Seifeddine Rezgui
gunned down 30 British tourists in Sousse.

Describing how the ordeal changed his outlook, Owen said: "When people moan
about stuff, you think, 'Just shut up'. It makes you realise what's important."

Owen was grazed in the shoulder by one of the bullets that killed brother Joel,
19, uncle Adrian Evans, 44, and grandad Charles Evans, 79, on June 26.

The brothers, of Wednesbury, West Mids, had been treated to the holiday as a
reward for working hard for their exams. Owen told the Birmingham Mail that
fellow survivors Naomi Wearing, 18, and Lucy Pettit, 23, had supported him since
they struck up a friendship in a Tunisian hospital.

He said they continued to keep in touch and added: "We can relate to each other
and what we went through in a way people who weren't there cannot."

Owen's mum Suzanne said he had been her rock.

She said: "He has been unbelievably strong, ­especially for his age.

"Owen keeps me strong, I think if he can get up and carry on, then so can I.

"He has lost his three male family members, and he misses them so much.

"Owen misses his brother. He looked up to him."

On Friday night schoolboy Owen was presented with a special recognition award at
Pride of Birmingham 2015.

His story may well be the most remarkable account of strength, spirit and
determination you will ever hear.

On June 26, 2015 the Wednesbury teenager lost his brother, uncle and granddad
when they became victims of a terrorist gunman on the beach in Port El Kantaoui.

Joel Richards, 19, Adrian Evans, 44, and Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78, all died.

He has never spoken about it until today. And, indeed, he will still not dwell
on the detail of the day his life changed forever.

But Owen and his family have opened their hearts and photo album to our sister
paper the Birmingham Mail, organisers of the Pride of Birmingham awards.

His special award was in recognition of the amazing support and hope he has
given others since his return from Tunisia.

Because Owen has been a rock for his grieving mum Suzanne, who lost a son, a
brother and a father in the shootings near the city of Sousse.

He has been there for his grandma Maureen, who lost a husband on that day.

And, remarkably, he has continued to help other victims of the atrocity, in
particular friends Naomi Wearing and Lucy Pettit whom he met in hospital in
Tunisia.

Naomi, 18 from Blackburn, and Lucy, 23, from Slough, say he has helped them
through continuing hospital treatment back in the UK, keeping in touch and
offering encouragement, helping them in their recovery.

"I was the youngest person involved," says Owen, who had turned 16 just a month
before the attack.

TUNISIA ATTACK: Security forces edge around building where 'armed terrorists'
hold international hostages

"Lucy and Naomi were the closest in age group to me.

"We met in hospital in Tunisia and kept in touch when we got home, texting and
messaging each other regularly.

"We can relate to each other and what we went through in a way that people who
weren't there cannot."

And he says that what happened in Sousse has changed his outlook on life.

"When people moan about stuff, you think 'Just shut up'," he explains. "It makes
you realise what's important."

Owen and his brother Joel, 19, had been treated to the holiday with their uncle
Adrian and granddad Pat as a reward for working so hard for their exams.

They had an exciting summer planned, too.

Scared French woman calls into live tv during hostage situation at the Bardo
museum in Tunisia

Owen was aiming to get back in time for his school prom; Joel, a promising
footballer and referee, was going out to Hungary to ref some matches; then they
were looking forward to a holiday with their mum.

It should have been among the happiest times of their lives. The shooting
changed everything.

The first Suzanne heard of the terrible news was when Owen rang her from Tunisia
on June 26.

"That morning everything had been normal," she recalls. "Then there was that one
phone call and everything changed.

"It happened so quickly.

"Owen was using someone else's phone so he couldn't speak for long. I could
hardly believe what he was saying. But I put the TV on and realised it was real.

"I'm so glad Owen rang and that I found out from him rather than just hearing
about it on the news. Otherwise I wouldn't have known if he was OK.

"I felt so helpless because I was so far away.

"But within eight hours I was on a flight to reach him. The airline diverted a
plane to pick me up. The plane was empty because it was going to bring everyone
home.

"Owen was 16 and he was on his own. He'd only got Lucy and Naomi with him.

"When I reached him, we had lots of hugs and tears, it was such a relief to get
to him."

When mum and son returned home, it was to plan a funeral.

But Owen stoically and resolutely began picking up the pieces.

He surprised everyone by his strength - attending that school prom just five
days after returning from Tunisia.

"Joel and Owen went out to choose Owen's prom outfit the day before they went on
holiday," reveals Suzanne.

"Then he went out to Tunisia on the Thursday. He was planning to have a nice tan
ready for his prom the day after they got back.

"But, of course, he came home on the Sunday instead.

"It shows his strength that he carried on and went to the prom five days later.

"It was a big decision whether or not to go.

"When he turned up, people gasped when they saw him. But then all his mates came
round and they treated him like normal.

"He has been unbelievably strong, especially for his age."

Not only did Owen make it to his prom, but he also went on to help run Design
and Technology (DT) sessions at a special summer school to help integrate the
new year seven pupils, help them get to grips with the move to a bigger school.

"I made metal key-rings with them," says Owen. "I've got into DT more recently,
I've made a shelving unit, too."

It was, understandably, a bittersweet moment when Owen's GCSE results came
through - because they had been one of the reasons for the trip to Tunisia.

He got 10 GCSEs, three A*s, two As, three Bs and two Cs.

Recently, Owen started sixth form at Stuart Bathurst RC High School and College
in Wednesbury, where he is studying A level maths, physics, biology and PE.

And he has even done a shift for clothes store Next, where he plans to work over
the busy Christmas period.

"It will be good to be busy," he says simply.

His mum says Owen is the one who gives her the strength to cope with what has
happened.

"I was always a real planner," says Suzanne, who is a lecturer in travel and
tourism at Walsall College.

"It was all mapped out, that Owen was going to his prom, then Joel was going to
referee in Hungary and we were going to go on a family holiday.

"Now, we just get through one day at a time, put one foot in front of the other.

"Owen keeps me strong, I think if he can get up and carry on, then so can I.

"There's only me and my mum and Owen now. We have to make sure she's OK every
day, too.

"We were really close as a six, constantly in touch, every day.

"What's hard for Owen is he has lost his three male family members, and he
misses them so much.

"That's tough. They always went to football matches together.

"But he's been back to football since with one of his uncle's friends."

One of the last photos of all four together was outside Wembley, where their
beloved Walsall were playing the Johnstone's Paint Trophy final against Bristol
City. The Saddlers have been very supportive of the family since the tragedy.

"At the first season's game, they all started clapping at 19 minutes, then at 49
minutes, then at 78 minutes - that was their ages," says Suzanne.

The club also arranged for Owen to go to an away game at Morecambe FC on the
team coach.

"It was good," says Owen. "I sat near the driver on the way because I was too
nervous to sit with the team at the back, but the driver was great.

"Once I was there, I was given a team tracksuit so that I looked like part of
the club and I was given an 'access all areas' pass.

"I sat with the team on the way back. Unfortunately we lost, but we all had fish
and chips!

"I was quite surprised by that. They had to put the order in before the match
because there were so many people.

"I loved it."

The Football Association has produced 'Keep Calm and Smile for Joel' white
wristbands to raise money to help provide for Owen if and when he goes to
university.

"Owen misses his brother," says Suzanne. "He looked up to him for everything.
They had a fantastic relationship. There was four years between them.

"Joel would always cover for him. I'd ask Owen to do something and Joel would
say 'Let him carry on playing on the Playstation, I'll do it.'

"Owen was quite shy so to see him going out and speaking to people now is
amazing.

"He has really grown and matured in these last few months."

Owen was surprised when he learned he'd been nominated for a Pride of Birmingham
award.

His support worker Katie Battle, from Victim Support, says: "Owen felt so
humbled. He couldn't see what he'd done that was so brave. He didn't feel worthy
of it.

"How could he feel courageous when he was feeling so lost and so low?

"A lot of people would have been overwhelmed, but Owen is so strong. Most people
would not have that courage in them.

"This is still only the beginning of his journey - he's got a long way to go.

"Owen's GCSE grades seemed trivial to him when they came through because he
would swap them in a heartbeat for what he's lost.

"But he's really taken people's advice on board and is realising that what
doesn't seem important now may well be important in 20 years' time.

"The fact that he's taking advice on his future is amazing, he's making everyone
really proud.

"And he's always thinking about other people, looking out for his friends and
family."

Naomi Wearing and her mum Carol were injured when the Tunisia gunman threw a
grenade.

But they became separated when they were rushed to hospital.

Naomi, 18, found herself in the same room as Owen Richards - and the two struck
up a friendship that has continued since their return to the UK.

"Owen was put in a hospital room with me at first and we just got talking," she
says.

"And that conversation has continued. We speak every week now, sometimes a few
times a week, mainly by text message.

"We just like to check in with each other.

"To have someone to talk to of a similar age who has been through the same thing
is such a big support.

"It's not just what happened in Sousse that we talk about.

"We are really close friends now so we talk about anything and everything with
each other. We just understand.

"Owen is a really nice person, I'm really proud of him.

"He definitely deserves the Pride of Birmingham award, 100 per cent!"

The gunman opened fire at Port El Kantaoui, just north of the city of Sousse.

Thirty-eight people, 30 of whom were British, were killed outside the five-star
Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The killer, Seifeddine Rezgui Yacoubi, had disguised himself as a tourist before
taking out a Kalashnikov assault rifle concealed in a beach umbrella and opening
fire.

He was later killed by security forces during an exchange of fire.

As well as Joel Richards, Adrian Evans, and Charles Evans, other Midland
fatalities were former Birmingham City FC player Dennis Thwaites, 70, and his
wife Elaine, 69, and Tamworth mum Sue Davey, 44.

Owen and Joel were huge fans of fantasy series Game Of Thrones and classic
comedy Only Fools and Horses.

And at the Pride of Birmingham Awards stars from both shows sent special video
messages.

Maisie Williams, who plays Arya Stark in Game of Thrones and is shortly to
appear in Doctor Who, said:

"Hi Owen. I hear you're a fan of Game Of Thrones and, in particular, a supporter
of House Stark.

"We Starks look out for each other, as I'm sure you'll know - and I hear you're
just the same.

"Lucy and Naomi have been telling us how you've been helping them pull through.

"Your strength and support is something they value very much.

"You've been there for them, keeping in touch, caring for your friends.

"After everything you've been through, that's something very special.

"Everyone at Game of Thrones sends their best wishes and thanks you tonight.

"You really are the Pride of Birmingham."

John Challis, in character as Only Fools used car salesman Boycie, said:

"Good day to you Owen. Boycie here. We were only talking about you the other
night in the Nag's Head.

"Now Marlene tells me you've been a good friend to Naomi and Lucy, geeing them
along.

"It's very important to have good friends, especially when times are rough.

"How d'you think Del and Rodney got through all their problems, eh?

"Me and Del, Rodney, Denzel, all the boys and girls wish you all the very best,

"We're thinking of you. Brum is proud of you, as I expect you know.

"So enjoy your evening and shake a stick at life!"

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 7:17 AM GMT

Brave boy whose brother, uncle and grandfather were killed in Tunisia terror
attack speaks out;
Owen Richards, 16, has been a rock to his mother and grandmother since the
massacre that cost them their loved ones

BYLINE: By Zoe Chamberlain

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 2011 words


You could hear the applause out in the street. It was, said seasoned
theatregoers, the longest standing ovation seen at the city's historic Town
Hall.

And there, up on the famous stage, a modest young man seemed surprised by the
rapturous reception afforded him.

On Friday night schoolboy Owen Richards, just 16, was presented with a special
recognition award at Pride of Birmingham 2015.

Judges had added the award to the Pride roster because they were so deeply
impressed by his courage, his compassion and his caring.

Because Owen Richards' story may well be the most remarkable account of
strength, spirit and determination you will ever hear.

On June 26, 2015 the Wednesbury teenager lost his brother, uncle and granddad
when they became victims of a terrorist gunman on the beach in Port El Kantaoui.

Joel Richards, 19, Adrian Evans, 44, and Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78, all died.

He has never spoken about it until today. And, indeed, he will still not dwell
on the detail of the day his life changed forever.

But Owen and his family have opened their hearts and photo album to our sister
paper the Birmingham Mail, organisers of the Pride of Birmingham awards.

His special award was in recognition of the amazing support and hope he has
given others since his return from Tunisia.

Because Owen has been a rock for his grieving mum Suzanne, who lost a son, a
brother and a father in the shootings near the city of Sousse.

He has been there for his grandma Maureen, who lost a husband on that day.

And, remarkably, he has continued to help other victims of the atrocity, in
particular friends Naomi Wearing and Lucy Pettit whom he met in hospital in
Tunisia.

Naomi, 18 from Blackburn, and Lucy, 23, from Slough, say he has helped them
through continuing hospital treatment back in the UK, keeping in touch and
offering encouragement, helping them in their recovery.

"I was the youngest person involved," says Owen, who had turned 16 just a month
before the attack.

TUNISIA ATTACK: Security forces edge around building where 'armed terrorists'
hold international hostages

"Lucy and Naomi were the closest in age group to me.

"We met in hospital in Tunisia and kept in touch when we got home, texting and
messaging each other regularly.

"We can relate to each other and what we went through in a way that people who
weren't there cannot."

And he says that what happened in Sousse has changed his outlook on life.

"When people moan about stuff, you think 'Just shut up'," he explains. "It makes
you realise what's important."

Owen and his brother Joel, 19, had been treated to the holiday with their uncle
Adrian and granddad Pat as a reward for working so hard for their exams.

They had an exciting summer planned, too.

Scared French woman calls into live tv during hostage situation at the Bardo
museum in Tunisia

Owen was aiming to get back in time for his school prom; Joel, a promising
footballer and referee, was going out to Hungary to ref some matches; then they
were looking forward to a holiday with their mum.

It should have been among the happiest times of their lives. The shooting
changed everything.

The first Suzanne heard of the terrible news was when Owen rang her from Tunisia
on June 26.

"That morning everything had been normal," she recalls. "Then there was that one
phone call and everything changed.

"It happened so quickly.

"Owen was using someone else's phone so he couldn't speak for long. I could
hardly believe what he was saying. But I put the TV on and realised it was real.

"I'm so glad Owen rang and that I found out from him rather than just hearing
about it on the news. Otherwise I wouldn't have known if he was OK.

"I felt so helpless because I was so far away.

"But within eight hours I was on a flight to reach him. The airline diverted a
plane to pick me up. The plane was empty because it was going to bring everyone
home.

"Owen was 16 and he was on his own. He'd only got Lucy and Naomi with him.

"When I reached him, we had lots of hugs and tears, it was such a relief to get
to him."

When mum and son returned home, it was to plan a funeral.

But Owen stoically and resolutely began picking up the pieces.

He surprised everyone by his strength - attending that school prom just five
days after returning from Tunisia.

"Joel and Owen went out to choose Owen's prom outfit the day before they went on
holiday," reveals Suzanne.

"Then he went out to Tunisia on the Thursday. He was planning to have a nice tan
ready for his prom the day after they got back.

"But, of course, he came home on the Sunday instead.

"It shows his strength that he carried on and went to the prom five days later.

"It was a big decision whether or not to go.

"When he turned up, people gasped when they saw him. But then all his mates came
round and they treated him like normal.

"He has been unbelievably strong, especially for his age."

Not only did Owen make it to his prom, but he also went on to help run Design
and Technology (DT) sessions at a special summer school to help integrate the
new year seven pupils, help them get to grips with the move to a bigger school.

"I made metal key-rings with them," says Owen. "I've got into DT more recently,
I've made a shelving unit, too."

It was, understandably, a bittersweet moment when Owen's GCSE results came
through - because they had been one of the reasons for the trip to Tunisia.

He got 10 GCSEs, three A*s, two As, three Bs and two Cs.

Recently, Owen started sixth form at Stuart Bathurst RC High School and College
in Wednesbury, where he is studying A level maths, physics, biology and PE.

And he has even done a shift for clothes store Next, where he plans to work over
the busy Christmas period.

"It will be good to be busy," he says simply.

His mum says Owen is the one who gives her the strength to cope with what has
happened.

"I was always a real planner," says Suzanne, who is a lecturer in travel and
tourism at Walsall College.

"It was all mapped out, that Owen was going to his prom, then Joel was going to
referee in Hungary and we were going to go on a family holiday.

"Now, we just get through one day at a time, put one foot in front of the other.

"Owen keeps me strong, I think if he can get up and carry on, then so can I.

"There's only me and my mum and Owen now. We have to make sure she's OK every
day, too.

"We were really close as a six, constantly in touch, every day.

"What's hard for Owen is he has lost his three male family members, and he
misses them so much.

"That's tough. They always went to football matches together.

"But he's been back to football since with one of his uncle's friends."

One of the last photos of all four together was outside Wembley, where their
beloved Walsall were playing the Johnstone's Paint Trophy final against Bristol
City. The Saddlers have been very supportive of the family since the tragedy.

"At the first season's game, they all started clapping at 19 minutes, then at 49
minutes, then at 78 minutes - that was their ages," says Suzanne.

The club also arranged for Owen to go to an away game at Morecambe FC on the
team coach.

"It was good," says Owen. "I sat near the driver on the way because I was too
nervous to sit with the team at the back, but the driver was great.

"Once I was there, I was given a team tracksuit so that I looked like part of
the club and I was given an 'access all areas' pass.

"I sat with the team on the way back. Unfortunately we lost, but we all had fish
and chips!

"I was quite surprised by that. They had to put the order in before the match
because there were so many people.

"I loved it."

The Football Association has produced 'Keep Calm and Smile for Joel' white
wristbands to raise money to help provide for Owen if and when he goes to
university.

"Owen misses his brother," says Suzanne. "He looked up to him for everything.
They had a fantastic relationship. There was four years between them.

"Joel would always cover for him. I'd ask Owen to do something and Joel would
say 'Let him carry on playing on the Playstation, I'll do it.'

"Owen was quite shy so to see him going out and speaking to people now is
amazing.

"He has really grown and matured in these last few months."

Owen was surprised when he learned he'd been nominated for a Pride of Birmingham
award.

His support worker Katie Battle, from Victim Support, says: "Owen felt so
humbled. He couldn't see what he'd done that was so brave. He didn't feel worthy
of it.

"How could he feel courageous when he was feeling so lost and so low?

"A lot of people would have been overwhelmed, but Owen is so strong. Most people
would not have that courage in them.

"This is still only the beginning of his journey - he's got a long way to go.

"Owen's GCSE grades seemed trivial to him when they came through because he
would swap them in a heartbeat for what he's lost.

"But he's really taken people's advice on board and is realising that what
doesn't seem important now may well be important in 20 years' time.

"The fact that he's taking advice on his future is amazing, he's making everyone
really proud.

"And he's always thinking about other people, looking out for his friends and
family."

Naomi Wearing and her mum Carol were injured when the Tunisia gunman threw a
grenade.

But they became separated when they were rushed to hospital.

Naomi, 18, found herself in the same room as Owen Richards - and the two struck
up a friendship that has continued since their return to the UK.

"Owen was put in a hospital room with me at first and we just got talking," she
says.

"And that conversation has continued. We speak every week now, sometimes a few
times a week, mainly by text message.

"We just like to check in with each other.

"To have someone to talk to of a similar age who has been through the same thing
is such a big support.

"It's not just what happened in Sousse that we talk about.

"We are really close friends now so we talk about anything and everything with
each other. We just understand.

"Owen is a really nice person, I'm really proud of him.

"He definitely deserves the Pride of Birmingham award, 100 per cent!"

The gunman opened fire at Port El Kantaoui, just north of the city of Sousse.

Thirty-eight people, 30 of whom were British, were killed outside the five-star
Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The killer, Seifeddine Rezgui Yacoubi, had disguised himself as a tourist before
taking out a Kalashnikov assault rifle concealed in a beach umbrella and opening
fire.

He was later killed by security forces during an exchange of fire.

As well as Joel Richards, Adrian Evans, and Charles Evans, other Midland
fatalities were former Birmingham City FC player Dennis Thwaites, 70, and his
wife Elaine, 69, and Tamworth mum Sue Davey, 44.

Owen and Joel were huge fans of fantasy series Game Of Thrones and classic
comedy Only Fools and Horses.

And at the Pride of Birmingham Awards stars from both shows sent special video
messages.

Maisie Williams, who plays Arya Stark in Game of Thrones and is shortly to
appear in Doctor Who, said:

"Hi Owen. I hear you're a fan of Game Of Thrones and, in particular, a supporter
of House Stark.

"We Starks look out for each other, as I'm sure you'll know - and I hear you're
just the same.

"Lucy and Naomi have been telling us how you've been helping them pull through.

"Your strength and support is something they value very much.

"You've been there for them, keeping in touch, caring for your friends.

"After everything you've been through, that's something very special.

"Everyone at Game of Thrones sends their best wishes and thanks you tonight.

"You really are the Pride of Birmingham."

John Challis, in character as Only Fools used car salesman Boycie, said:

"Good day to you Owen. Boycie here. We were only talking about you the other
night in the Nag's Head.

"Now Marlene tells me you've been a good friend to Naomi and Lucy, geeing them
along.

"It's very important to have good friends, especially when times are rough.

"How d'you think Del and Rodney got through all their problems, eh?

"Me and Del, Rodney, Denzel, all the boys and girls wish you all the very best,

"We're thinking of you. Brum is proud of you, as I expect you know.

"So enjoy your evening and shake a stick at life!"

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 3:48 PM GMT

Three in four British holidaymakers 'now avoiding Muslim countries';
Three in four British holidaymakers say they are actively avoiding Muslim
countries following the terrorist attacks in Tunisia, according to a new survey

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words


More than half of those who responded to a poll said that a turbulent summer,
which included the shooting in Sousse and also the migrant crisis that affected
holiday destinations in the Mediterranean, had directly influenced their choice
of holiday abroad.

The survey, carried out for Travelzoo, revealed a trend in holidaymakers
claiming to be avoiding traditional winter sun destinations in favour of what
they deemed to be "safer" destinations that they "would not otherwise have
chosen to visit".

· Tunisia sees a million fewer tourists after terror attacks

The shooting on a Tunisian beach that left 30 British tourists dead is the main
cause for concern if the survey is to be believed, with more than half of those
questioned claiming that the incident had put them off planning or booking a
holiday anywhere abroad.

Three quarters said that they were now avoiding booking trips to Islamic
countries.

· Kos migrant crisis is putting off holidaymakers

"Usually when Britain has a cool and wet summer, we are keen to take a holiday
somewhere warm," said Yeganeh Morakabati, an academic in risk and tourism at
Bournemouth University. "The events of this summer, however, have impacted the
choices British consumers are making about where to go."

"What is clear from the research is that the relative levels of risk perception
have increased uncertainty and this has left the door open to fear. As a result
British travellers are finding it increasingly difficult to decide on the safest
destination for a holiday abroad."

The Foreign Office continues to advise against all but essential travel to
Tunisia, but the poll suggests that many holidaymakers remain confused about
which destinations are considered safe.

Nearly a third admitted that they are unaware of current Government travel
warnings.

Louise Hodges, Travelzoo's spokesperson, said, "It's clear that after a
turbulent year with many high profile incidents in tourist destinations, safety
and security is paramount for British people making choices about where to
travel to for the rest of 2015 and into 2016.

· Are bookings for Greece really on the rise?

"The Canaries are looking popular again this year, however we know people are
actively avoiding North Africa, opting instead for destinations they believe are
safer. Islamic countries in particular are causing potential British visitors
concern."

· Quiet resorts in the Canary Islands

Following the tragic terrorist attack in Sousse in June, less than one per cent
of the British tourists who were polled said that they would consider visiting
Tunisia, even if the Government's travel ban was to be lifted in the next few
months.

The Travelzoo survey was conducted by Censuswide, an independent third party,
who polled 2,000 adults in Britain in September.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Kenyan minister says terror attacks planned in refugee camps

LENGTH: 315 words


Text of report by Joseph Ndunda entitled "Terrorism planned in camps, says CS"
published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star website on 6
October

Final planning and logistical support for nearly all terror attacks in Kenya
take place in refugee camps, Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery has said. He said
since Somali refugee camps threaten Kenya's security, the country will continue
to close camps and send refugees back to Somalia.

"We cannot continue to offer asylum and protection to populations in areas that
are taken over by criminal elements, and in this case, terrorists and their
agents," Nkaissery said.

He was speaking in Geneva at the UNHCR's 66th executive committee session.

The CS said government security agents recovered a large cache of arms and
phones in the Dadaab refugee camp last week.

Nkaissery said only 4,214 Somali refugees have been repatriated out of about
500,000. He said the process should move faster.

The CS said humanitarian groups dealing with the Somalia situation should move
to Somalia. He said the final planning of the Westgate terror attack on 21
September 2013, was coordinated in a camp. At least 67 people were killed and
more than 200 others injured.

The CS also said the weapons used in the Garissa University College attack on 2
April were ferried and hidden in the camps. In that attack, 142 students and
five security personnel were killed and many injured.

"Kenya has been fully involved in the search for a solution to Somalia's
instability", he said.

The KDF [Kenya Defence Forces] contingent in Amisom [African Union Mission in
Somalia] has liberated and are in control of more than 20 towns from the Kenyan
border to Kismayu, he said.

Nkaissery said the government is concerned about alleged involvement of some
UNHCR personnel that facilitate terrorist activities in the country.

Source: The Star website, Nairobi, in English 6 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Russian security services detain Chechen wanted for 1995 terrorist attack

LENGTH: 181 words


Russia's Federal Security Service has detained a member of the so-called Shamil
Basayev gang, which carried out an attack on the town of Budennovsk in Stavropol
Territory during the mid-1990's, the FSB said on 6 October, Russian official
state television channel Rossiya 1 reported that day.

"Russian citizen B. B. Daudov, born 9 June 1972, a participant in the Sh.
Basayev group that took part in the attack on Budennovsk was detained by members
of the FSB on 5 October in the Istra District, Moscow Region. Investigative
measures are underway with B. Daudov," the FSB said.

Basayev's group carried out a huge attack on Budennovsk on 14 July 1995 in which
they took 1,600 local people hostage in the town's local hospital, and demanded
an immediate end to hostilities in Chechnya. Over 129 people died in the attack,
which ended with the terrorists being granted safe passage back to Chechnya in
buses in exchange for releasing their hostages, following a failed assault by
Russian forces on the hospital, the report at 1422 gmt said.

Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 1400 gmt 6 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

EU transport ministers expected to discuss train security after foiled terror
attack

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL

LENGTH: 147 words


EU Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council meets, with discussions on
railway security held over a working lunch following the foiled terrorist attack
on a high-speed service from Amsterdam to Paris on 21 Aug near the northern
French city of Arras. New recommendations are expected to include increased
identity and baggage checks. The issue was also expected to be discussed at
yesterday's informal meeting of EU transport ministers.
 According to first-hand accounts a man armed with an AKM assault rifle, nine
magazines, 270 rounds of ammunition, a pistol and bottle of petrol, was tackled
and subdued by a group of three American friends, two of them off-duty members
of the U.S. Armed Forces, before a British passenger and French train driver
helped to apprehend him

Event Start Date: 2015-10-08

Event End Date: 2015-10-08

Event URL: http://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/home/

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 6, 2015 Tuesday 7:10 AM GMT

Ghassan Abu Jamal: Israel demolishes family home of man behind deadly Jerusalem
synagogue attack;
Government's 'response to terror'leaves 23 homeless after blast triggered by
security forcesdamagesadjacent flats

BYLINE: Ben lynfield

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 747 words


Ghassan Abu Jamal died carrying out an attack on a Jerusalem synagogue that
claimed five Israeli lives last November. On Tuesday, in East Jerusalem, it was
time for his family to pay.

In addition to obliterating the family home where Abu Jamal had lived with his
wife and three children, a blast, triggered by Israeli security forces, also
destroyed most of an adjacent flat in which his brother Muawiya lived with a
wife and three children.

The destruction of these homes created fresh bitterness in the lower-income
Palestinian Jabal Mukaber neighbourhood, with relatives pointing to cracks they
said were caused by the explosion in other flats in a building that was home to
23 people.

A relative of Palestinian cousins Uday, left, and Ghassan Abu Jamal, shows their
portraits at the family's residence last November (Getty)

Amid escalating tensions, Israeli officials said the demolitions are aimed at
clamping down on Palestinian violence. Critics of the government said that
demolishing the family home was aimed at accommodating the clamour of
right-wingers for tough steps, than restoring security. They claimed the
demolitions were a "collective punishment" that would backfire.

"What has Muawiya done? Now I'm afraid to sleep here or have the children sleep
here because of the cracks," said Abu Jamal's mother, Zakia. His father,
Mohammed, standing outside the rubble near a concrete frame that looked like it
could collapse at any moment, added: "I believe Netanyahu made the most stupid
decision. He thinks he can deter people but every action begets a reaction."

Read more

Synagogue attack: Fear unites both sides of Jerusalem

Jerusalem synagogue attack: Popular Front for Liberation of Palestine

Jerusalem synagogue attack kills four worshippers

Israeli forces also destroyed the East Jerusalem family home of Mohammed
al-Jaabis, who died carrying out a deadly attack in which he rammed a bus with a
tractor in Jerusalem last year. Troops also sealed a room in the home of Mu'taz
Hijazi, who was shot dead last October after he opened fire and wounded a
right-wing Israeli activist. The moves came hours after Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu vowed to expedite home demolitions and other measures following a
surge in attacks that claimed the lives of four Israelis in the past five days.
Three Palestinians have died in clashes with security forces in Jerusalem and
the occupied West Bank in that period, and hundreds have been injured amid high
tensions around Islam's third holiest site, Haram al-Sharif, which is sacred to
Jews as the site of the biblical temples.

Zakia Abu Jamal said the family had built the home gradually since 1974 by
"adding one room after another". "We are still in debt to pay for this house.
They have destroyed us. Why punish a whole family?" she asked. She said she
would have stopped her son from carrying out the attack had she known about it.
"I'm a mother. Will a mother accept for her son to go and die?"

The assessments of security personnel are that house demolitions do not deter
and merely add to the cycle of enmity

Meretz MP,Tamar Zandberg

The demolition did not seem to be having a deterrent effect, at least
immediately. On the wall of a neighbouring house fresh graffiti was chalked
calling Abu Jamal and his cousin Uday, who carried out the synagogue attack with
him, "the heroes of the generation of martyrs".

Mr Netanyahu's spokesman, Mark Regev, said of the demolitions: "We believe it's
an important deterrent. It's a tool that is used only in extreme cases.
Unfortunately there are all sorts of incentives for people to become terrorists
- financially and socially - with them being considered heroes. Demolitions are
one tool to make people realise there are not only positive consequences to
cold-blooded murder."

Speaking to

The Independent

, Tamar Zandberg, an MP for the dovish Meretz party criticised the demolitions
as "unjust, illegal and unwise".

She said: "The assessments of security personnel are that house demolitions do
not deter and merely add to the cycle of enmity. I suspect this was done out of
a desire to satisfy the shrill voices on the right rather than out of a security
assessment. Demolitions do not punish the person who carried out the attack.

"A state of law brings to justice and punishes the terrorists but should not
carry out collective punishment against those who are not involved."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday

Jordan condemns terrorist attacks in Yemen's Aden

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman, 6 October - Jordan, on Tuesday [6 October], strongly condemned the
terrorist attack that took place in Yemen's Aden city which claimed the life of
fifteen soldiers, including four Emiratis and one Saudi, who fight within the
Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.

Minister of State for Media Affairs, the government spokesman, Muhammad Mumani,
said terrorism strikes every day in the ugliest forms and methods, and everyone
should take responsibility for addressing this serious scourge.

The minister stressed Jordan's solidarity with Yemen, the United Arab Emirates
and Saudi Arabia, after the death of a number of their soldiers and citizens in
this terrorist operation.

On behalf of the Jordanian government, Mumani offered condolences to the
governments of the brotherly countries, and to the families of the martyrs.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 2210 gmt 6 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:32 AM GMT

Strabane under siege after 30 terrorist attacks in a year

BYLINE: By Donna Deeney

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 465 words


Dissident republicans carried out 30 bomb and gun attacks in Strabane in a year,
the PSNI said.

There were 15 bomb attacks in the 12 months to August, seven of which targeted
police directly.

The others were aimed at members of the public.

Republican terrorists were also responsible for 15 so-called punishment
shootings, six of which maimed their victims for life.

Superintendent Mark McEwan said that while the threat from dissidents remained
severe, with the help of the community his officers could put those responsible
behind bars.

He said: "We have also witnessed a number of hoax devices designed to disrupt
community life, to terrorise people and to draw police officers into situations
where they could be attacked.

"It is important to note some of the latest incidents we have had in Strabane.
The most recent was the discovery of the component parts of a pipe bomb.

"All the component parts were there, it could quickly have been made active and
the people who have in their control this type of device are clearly intent on
causing harm or serious injury to members of our community. I am delighted to be
able to say we have taken this and other type devices off the streets."

Recent attacks in the Co Tyrone town caused severe disruption as families fled
from their homes. Motorists faced long waits in traffic jams or added miles to
their journeys in lengthy diversions.

He said this level of disruption was regrettable but that every precaution must
be taken, adding: "Recently we had the discovery of a firearm-type in the
Ballycolman area of Strabane.

"Our initial assessment of that was that it was a fully-functioning firearm, but
subsequent forensic examination has revealed that it was a replica.

"The look, weight and feel of many replicas is very close to a real firearm. I
have no doubt that these type of items are used to cause terror in our
community. It also has to be recognised that they are used to draw police
officers into situations where they can be subjected to secondary-type attacks.

"For these reasons we have to approach these incidents with the caution and care
as if it was a real firearm until we understand what we are dealing with.

"There is a certain amount of disruption but it is incumbent on us, when we are
doing this, to keep all in the community safe, including our own officers."

He added: "I want to appeal to the wider community to come forward with any
information that they may have about these types of activities to enable us to
bring the perpetrators to justice.

"I also want to ask is this the type of activity that people within our
community want?

"I do not believe it is. The vast majority of people in this district have come
out and condemned these attacks.

"Because of that I am appealing for information to help us keep the community
safe."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror on the towpath: Cyclists under attack from brutal canal gang;
LEADING CITY EYE DOCTOR IS LATEST VICTIM OF MUGGERS ; EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: jeANeTTe OLDHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words


A LEADING children's eye specialist has told how he was beaten up by a vicious
gang of muggers preying on cyclists on Birmingham's canal towpaths.

Consultant ophthalmologist John Ainsworth, 55, was riding along the Ackers Trust
basin when he was set upon by thugs who tried to push him into the water to
steal his bike - an incident with chilling echoes of other recent attacks along
the canal.

Yardley danger of a no-go anyone John Last night police said they were stepping
up patrols and using plainclothes officers in a bid to catch the gang.

Mr Ainsworth, who works at the Children's Hospital, suffered a broken nose after
being repeatedly punched by the muggers, who fled when other cyclists appeared.

The 6pm attack came only days after an attempted mugging of a woman cyclist as
she rode home - and there have been other violent canal incidents in the area.

Another Birmingham eye surgeon, Mark Wevill, was punched and pushed by thugs
just last Friday.

"Yardley is in danger of becoming a no-go area for anyone not in a car," said Mr
Ainsworth.

"A 51-year-old man who runs one of the cycling support groups was chased by four
youths in the same area where both myself and the lady were attacked."

is in becoming area for not in a car.

Ainsworth "  The ophthalmologist said the gang was organised: "There were two
youths - one standing either side of the path where the canal is - to make you
cycle between them.

"Then one guy runs from the side and pushes you hard into the canal. Another guy
then tries to run off with the bike. Others hide close by.

"I managed to cycle on but there is a barrier along the canal, where I had to
get off my bike. They caught up with me and started hitting me in the face,
demanding money and the bike. I held on to my bike and was punched five or six
times in the face.

"I'd been cycling that route for 20 years with few problems, but there has been
the same group of lads hanging about for a while now. I want that route to be
safe for people like me, pedestrians, cyclists, for everyone."

One of the cyclists to come to the doctor's aid was Peter Quinn, who contacted
police this summer about intimidation from gangs along the canal.

"There is a group of delinquents persistently attacking cyclists," he said. "I
realise the police cannot be there all the time but an increased presence might
well make a difference."

Cyclists have been encouraged to ditch their cars by Birmingham City Council,
which is spending £60 million on a Cycle Revolution Project, which includes
improvements to canal towpaths.

Teacher Rachel Vann, 39, who rides into Birmingham using the Ackers Trust basin,
said: "I cycle along this path at least three times a week but I always avoid it
in the late evening. Cyclists should be vigilant."

Detective Inspector Jon Ashman, from Birmingham Police, said: "These were really
nasty attacks and we are following several lines of inquiry as part of the
criminal investigation. This kind of behaviour is dangerous and will not be
tolerated.

"We are working around the clock to bring those responsible to justice. We have
stepped up patrols in the area to ensure that cyclists can continue to use the
towpath safely.

"Anyone with information should come forward and contact us. Similarly if you
have been a victim, please call as soon as possible."

Councillor Lisa Trickett, Cabinet member for Sustainability, said: "We would
absolutely refute any suggestion that the Grand Union Canal towpath is a no-go
area.

"Obviously we would encourage people to report any incidents to the relevant
authorities to enable the perpetrators to be caught and prosecuted.

"We are proud of how we have been able to transform the canal towpaths and make
them an attractive place for people to cycle and walk."

"A runs eithe"Yardley is in danger of becoming a no-go area for anyone not in a
car. John Ainsworth

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thugs are targeting cyclists close to the Ackers Trust basin. Right,
cyclist Rachel Vann says she avoids the area at night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:10 AM GMT

David Cameron attacks Jeremy Corbyn's 'terrorist-sympathising, Britain-hating
ideology' - live;
The Prime Minister haileda 'defining decade' in Downing Street before he steps
down as leader

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 389 words


Here are the latest updates:

PM attacks Jeremy Corbyn as a 'terrorist sympathiser'

David Cameron has hailedBritain's 'turnaround' decade

'The prison system isn't working,' PM says

Did David Cameron troll Twitter users?

There's a big problem with the PM's housing plan

Four charts that show how it helps the rich at poor's expense

The return ofBoris Johnson - the next Tory leader?

Iain Duncan Smith told the poor to work their way out of poverty

Theresa May's immigration speech was highly controversial

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load

David Cameron closed Conservative Party conference today with a keynote speech
calling for a "national crusade" to build homes.

The Prime Ministerset out his ambition to turn "generation rent" into
"generation buy" and hail the Tories' record on the economy.

"When a generation of hard-working men and women in their 20s and 30s are waking
up each morning in their childhood bedrooms, that should be a wake-up call for
us," he said.

"We need a national crusade to get homes built. That means banks lending,
Government releasing land and - yes - planning being reformed."

The Prime Minister told activists that the phrase "affordable homes" used by
politicians for decades has been "deceptive" because it only covered homes for
rent.

"What people want are homes they can actually own," Mr Cameron said.

"After all, the officials who prepare the plans for the new homes, the
developers who build them, the politicians who talk about them, most of these
people own the homes they live in.

"Don't they realise other people want what they've got - a home of their own?"

Mr Cameron's speech nrought the curtain down on a four-day conference dominated
by senior Tories including George Osborne, Boris Johnson and Theresa May
jockeying for position in the looming race to succeed him as party leader.

He intends to step down at the end of his second term, after a full 10 years in
Downing Street, which he hopes will come to be seen as a "defining decade" for
Britain.

Additional reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:10 AM GMT

David Cameron attacks Jeremy Corbyn's 'terrorist-sympathising, Britain-hating
ideology' - live;
The Prime Minister haileda 'defining decade' in Downing Street before he steps
down as leader

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 439 words


Here are the latest updates:

PM attacks Jeremy Corbyn as a 'terrorist sympathiser'

...and makes a sex joke about the 'Joys of Tax'

'The prison system isn't working,' PM says

Cameron takes aim at some Islamic schools

PM'sambition to turn all schools into academies

Did David Cameron troll Twitter users?

There's a big problem with the PM's housing plan

Four charts that show how it helps the rich at poor's expense

David Cameron has hailedBritain's 'turnaround' decade

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load

David Cameron closed Conservative Party conference today with a keynote speech
calling for a "national crusade" to build homes.

The Prime Ministerset out his ambition to turn "generation rent" into
"generation buy" and hail the Tories' record on the economy.

Read more

Tory Conference: David Cameron's speech in full

Outrage as 'myth-maker' May pledges immigration crackdown

Back to Boris - silent assassin, talented bitcher, next Tory leader

"When a generation of hard-working men and women in their 20s and 30s are waking
up each morning in their childhood bedrooms, that should be a wake-up call for
us," he said.

"We need a national crusade to get homes built. That means banks lending,
Government releasing land and - yes - planning being reformed."

brightcove.createExperiences();

The Prime Minister told activists that the phrase "affordable homes" used by
politicians for decades has been "deceptive" because it only covered homes for
rent.

"What people want are homes they can actually own," Mr Cameron said.

"After all, the officials who prepare the plans for the new homes, the
developers who build them, the politicians who talk about them, most of these
people own the homes they live in.

"Don't they realise other people want what they've got - a home of their own?"

Mr Cameron's speech nrought the curtain down on a four-day conference dominated
by senior Tories including George Osborne, Boris Johnson and Theresa May
jockeying for position in the looming race to succeed him as party leader.

He intends to step down at the end of his second term, after a full 10 years in
Downing Street, which he hopes will come to be seen as a "defining decade" for
Britain.

Additional reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:10 AM GMT

David Cameron attacks Jeremy Corbyn's 'terrorist-sympathising, Britain-hating
ideology' - live;
The Prime Minister haileda 'defining decade' in Downing Street before he steps
down as leader

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 383 words


Here are the latest updates:

PM attacks Jeremy Corbyn as a 'terrorist sympathiser'

...and Mr Corbyn's spokesperson has responded

The PM made a sex joke about the 'Joys of Tax'

'The prison system isn't working,' PM says

Cameron takes aim at some Islamic schools

PM'sambition to turn all schools into academies

Did David Cameron troll Twitter users?

There's a big problem with the PM's housing plan

Four charts that show how it helps the rich at poor's expense

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load

David Cameron closed Conservative Party conference today with a keynote speech
calling for a "Greater Britain" that took aim at the Leader of the Opposition.

The Prime Minister vowed to spend the second half of his 10 years in power
taking on the country's deepest social problems - poverty, lack of opportunity,
discrimination and extremism - and said hewould end the "passive tolerance" of
the promotion of extremist ideas.

Mr Cameron clearly aims for hisparty to occupy territory vacated by Labour as it
moves to the left under Jeremy Corbyn.

Read more

Tory Conference: David Cameron's speech in full

Outrage as 'myth-maker' May pledges immigration crackdown

Back to Boris - silent assassin, talented bitcher, next Tory leader

He accused Labour of"completely abandoning" the principles of strong defences,
sound money, an enterprise economy and equality of opportunity, leaving the
Conservatives "the party of working people, the party for working people -
today, tomorrow, always", he said.

Referring to Mr Corbyn,he won loud applause as he told activists: "We cannot let
that man inflict his security-threatening, terrorist-sympathising,
Britain-hating ideology on the country we love."

Mr Cameron - who confirmed his plan to step down by the election scheduled for
2020 - said he wanted his time in power to be seen as a "turnaround decade".

Additional reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:10 AM GMT

David Cameron attacks Jeremy Corbyn's 'terrorist-sympathising, Britain-hating
ideology' - as it happened;
The Prime Minister haileda 'defining decade' in Downing Street before he steps
down as leader

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 415 words


Here are the latest updates:

PM attacks Jeremy Corbyn as a 'terrorist sympathiser'

...and Mr Corbyn's spokesperson has responded

The PM made a sex joke about the 'Joys of Tax'

'The prison system isn't working,' PM says

Cameron takes aim at some Islamic schools

PM'sambition to turn all schools into academies

Did David Cameron troll Twitter users?

People are speculating over who the PM wants to succeed him

Cameron came under fire for not backing up rhetoric

There's a big problem with the PM's housing plan

Four charts that show how it helps the rich at poor's expense

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load

David Cameron closed Conservative Party conference today with a keynote speech
calling for a "Greater Britain" that took aim at the Leader of the Opposition.

The Prime Minister vowed to spend the second half of his 10 years in power
taking on the country's deepest social problems - poverty, lack of opportunity,
discrimination and extremism - and said hewould end the "passive tolerance" of
the promotion of extremist ideas.

Mr Cameron clearly aims for hisparty to occupy territory vacated by Labour as it
moves to the left under Jeremy Corbyn.

Read more

Tory Conference: David Cameron's speech in full

Outrage as 'myth-maker' May pledges immigration crackdown

Back to Boris - silent assassin, talented bitcher, next Tory leader

He accused Labour of"completely abandoning" the principles of strong defences,
sound money, an enterprise economy and equality of opportunity, leaving the
Conservatives "the party of working people, the party for working people -
today, tomorrow, always", he said.

Referring to Mr Corbyn,he won loud applause as he told activists: "We cannot let
that man inflict his security-threatening, terrorist-sympathising,
Britain-hating ideology on the country we love."

Mr Cameron - who confirmed his plan to step down by the election scheduled for
2020 - said he wanted his time in power to be seen as a "turnaround decade".

Additional reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 4:08 AM GMT

The moment Channel Nine reporter Natalia Cooper is pelted with EGGS during
terror raids - just after being attacked by a woman in a pink hijab

BYLINE: JOHN CARNEY FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 389 words



     ·    Two Merrylands men, aged 22 and 24, were among those arrested
     ·    Natalia Cooper was filming in front of their home when eggs were
          hurled
     ·    The 9 News reporter was able to easily dodge the eggs and continue


A news reporter was forced to dodge flying eggs as tensions boiled over during
anti-terror raids in Sydney on Wednesday.

On Wednesday morning detectives arrested four male suspects - aged from 16 to 24
- in Guildford, Wentworthville, Merrylands and Marsfield, in relation to the
murder of Curtis Cheng outside NSW police headquarters in Parramatta by
schoolboy Farhad Khalil Jabar, 15. A fifth man was arrested on fraud
allegations.

Two Merrylands men, aged 22 and 24, were among those arrested, and journalist
Natalia Cooper was filming in front of their home when a series of eggs were
hurled in her direction, 9 News reports.

Scroll down for videos

The 9 News reporter was able to easily dodge the eggs that were not thrown from
the building where the arrested men lived.

Cooper did not lose her composure during the incident and later tweeted a
picture of the eggs lying broken on the road and saying: 'Eggs being thrown at
us by a neighbour of the house that was raided this morning in #Merrylands'.

She was shown support on Twitter by Today Perth News executive producer Tiffany
Wertheimer who tweeted: 'I'm glad the "egg bandits" can't aim. Would have really
hurt if it had hit her. Fools.'

The egg throwing came after an earlier incident when a woman, believed to be a
relative of the arrested men, clashed with Cooper and other media as she entered
the home.

Wearing a pink hijab she confronted the media in the street at one stage
grabbing a microphone and gesticulating angrily.

Snatching other microphones and threatening reporters, the woman acted
aggressively towards the assembled media before police stepped in and defused
the situation.

The group of males arrested on Wednesday are aged between 16 and 24, and more
than 200 armed police converged on the homes.

It was a joint effort that included NSW Police's counter-terrorism and homicide
squads, and the Australian Federal Police.

There are links between the arrested and the Friday terror attack carried out at
Parramatta police headquarters.

The other raided homes were in Lane Street at Wentworthville, Lockwood Street at
Merrylands and Booth Street at Marsfield.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 02:56 PM GMT

Four Held Over Deadly Australia 'Terror' Attack

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 331 words



HIGHLIGHT: Four people have been arrested over the murder of a police accountant
in Australia which investigators think was terror-related.


  Detectives believe the suspects, aged from 16 to 22, were involved in planning
the killing of Curtis Cheng as he left police headquarters in the Sydney suburb
of Parramatta on Friday.

The 58-year-old, who had been with the police force's finance department for 17
years, was shot in the back of the head by Farhad Jabar Khalil Mohammad.

The 15-year-old gunman, who was born in Iran, was shot and killed at the scene
by police.

The investigating team have also contacted Turkish police to search for the
killer's sister, who left Australia the day before the deadly attack.

New South Wales Police deputy commissioner Catherine Burn said: "We suspect that
a terrorism event has occurred and we suspect that they may have some knowledge.

"What we would suggest and we suspect is that there was some influence, whether
it was ideologically, religious or politically motivated, that determined and
influenced the 15-year-old to go and commit this horrendous act of violence."

Jabar  was not under surveillance and was not considered a threat.

However, some of those detained on Wednesday were the target of anti-terrorism
raids a year ago, deputy commissioner Burn said.

Some 17 people were held at the time, which police said prevented a beheading
plot.

Police have already arrested a 17-year-old boy on his way to the school were
Jabar was a pupil, charging him with offences linked to the use of social media
harass and intimidate.

Australia has been struggling to cope with a number of home-grown terrorist
attacks over the last year.

An 18-year-old was shot dead by police after stabbing two counter-terrorism
police officers in Melbourne, while a gunman and two hostages were killed in a
cafe siege in Sydney.

In April, several teenagers were held on suspicion of plotting an Islamic State
group-inspired attack at a Veterans' Day ceremony while in May, a 17-year-old
was arrested in Melbourne, accused of plotting to detonate three homemade pipe
bombs.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 12:10 PM GMT

David Cameron vows to tackle extremism and stop Britain's children 'ending up in
the desert wielding a knife';
Cameron pledges to shut down extremist schools and attacks Jeremy Corbyn
ashaving a "terrorist-sympathising Britain-hating" ideology

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1413 words


David Cameron today vowed to shut down extremist Islamic schools and end
Britain's "passive tolerance" of radical ideology.

In a Tory conference speech that pledged "a stronger society", he called for a
national campaign against ideology taught "from the mosques of Mogadishu to the
bedrooms of Birmingham".

"We need to confront - I mean really confront - extremism," the Prime Minister
said. Vowing to confront areas that had been treated as "no-go zones", he said
some British children spent "several hours a day" in Madrassa schools having
"their heads filled with poison".

He felt "sick to my stomach" when girls were persuaded to leave Britain's
opportunities for a "life of servitude" as Jihadi brides. And he spoke of "boys
who could do anything they wanted in Britain - who could have benefited from all
this country stands for - ending up in the desert wielding a knife."

He announced: "If an institution is teaching children intensively, then whatever
its religion, we will, like any other school, make it register so that it can be
inspected. And be in no doubt: if you are teaching intolerance, we will shut you
down."

"If you are teaching intolerance, we will shut you down."

Prime Minister David Cameron

He said it went to a "wider truth" that Britain had been too tolerant of
extremism and practices like forced marriage and female genital mutilation.

"For too long, we've been so frightened of causing offence that we haven't
looked hard enough at what is going on in our communities."

The mission was set out in a speech that saw the Prime Minister candidly set the
clock ticking and list new priorities for his remaining five years in power. Mr
Cameron vowed to create "a stronger society" by tackling poverty, with a special
focus on ending the scandal of children in care who go on to prostitution or
unemployment.

He repeated the phrase "greater Britain" 13 times and the word "social" 15
times. "A Greater Britain doesn't just need a stronger economy - it needs a
stronger society," he said.

Read more

Theresa May tells Tory conference: Kick bogus refugees out of UK

In other key passages, Mr Cameron attacked Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn as having
a "terrorist-sympathising Britain-hating" ideology.

He hailed George Osborne as the "Iron Chancellor" and called for the ousting of
Syrian despot Bashar Assad. On the drone strike that killed two British
extremists in Syria, he declared un -apologetically: "I took decisive action to
keep Britain safe - and that's what I will always do."

On the refugee crisis, he said Britain would "keep our head" and not encourage
more people to cross the Mediterranean. "If we opened the door to every refugee,
our country would be overwhelmed," he said.

To those who doubted the Conservatives could tackle deep-seated social problems,
he said: "Just you watch us."

Mr Cameron declared that his legacy would be to tackle poverty and a committed
drive against extremism.

"A Greater Britain doesn't just need a stronger economy - it needs a stronger
society," he told the the Manchester conference.

The Prime Minister gave his clearest indication yet that he believes he will
secure a deal to get Britain out of the EU's "ever closer union".

He said that he would "fight hard" for a renegotiated settlement f or the UK in
Europe which kept the country as part of the biggest single market in the world
while also Britain's "prosperity and Britain's influence". Mr Cameron told
delegates: "This is Britain. We don't duck fights. We get stuck in. We fix
problems....we do things our way."

Read more

Theresa May tells Tory conference: Kick bogus refugees out of UK

Boris Johnson takes aim at Miliband and the mansion tax at Tory

Mr Cameron's pitch following the Tory party's first true election victory since
1992 was candid that he was at the halfway mark of his time at No10 and that he
wanted to use a full second term to change the Government's priorities and the
Conservative Party's image.

"I don't have the luxury of unlimited time," he was set to say, striking an
urgent tone and confirming that he expects to leave office in 2020. Delivering
economic success was not "the finished article" of his time as leader, but a
"foundation on which we can build a better society".

"But to make Britain greater, we need to tackle some deep social problems," he
was to say. "Problems we only just made a start on, as we focused on the
economic emergency that faced us. The scourge of poverty. The brick wall of
blocked opportunity. The shadow of extremism - hanging over every single one of
us."

Conservatives were not obsessed with the economy but were founded on a tradition
of social reform and One Nationism. On the economy, he planned to say that
prosperity was returning and "we are moving into the light". But he said people
"not pounds and pence" were what fired him up. "And now, in my final term as
Prime Minister, I say: Let's live up to the greatest traditions of Conservative
social reform.

"We are not a one-trick party. For us, economic success - that's not the
finished article. It's the foundation on which we can build a better society.

"Our patriotism has never been simply some grand notion of ruling the waves, or
riding high in the money markets but a deep compulsion which says: 'You make a
country greater by making life better for its people.'

"Today, that means entering those no-go zones, where politicians often don't
dare to venture. It means taking on our big social problems... entrenched
poverty, blocked opportunity, the extremism that blights our communities." Mr
Cameron was due to go on: "So when the new mum looks at her new-born baby - the
most precious thing she's ever seen - and she vows to provide for it, she knows
she actually can.

"When the schoolgirl sits in that classroom, she knows that her studies really
can take her to the very top. When the child of immigrants sees our flag, he
feels so loyal to this country - his country - he wants to put on a uniform and
defend it. That is what fires me up. Not pounds and pence, plans and policies,
but people."

His argument struck a contrast with Margaret Thatcher's famous remark that there
is "no such thing as society".

Mr Cameron's allies say he is determined to take advantage of Labour's divisions
to recast the Conservative image away from being economically competent but
uncaring, to social reformers who put people first.

It came at the end of a Conservative conference where Cabinet ministers like
Theresa May and George Osborne and Tory stars like Boris Johnson openly paraded
their ambitions to take over as Prime Minister.

Mr Cameron confirmed that he would go just before the 2020 general election. He
was to say: "We're only half way through. For me, that has a very literal
meaning. I can say something today that perhaps no Prime Minister has ever
really been able to say before. I'm starting the second half of my time in this
job.

"As you know, I am not going to fight another election as your leader. So I
don't have the luxury of unlimited time.

"Let me tell you: 'I am in just as much of a hurry as five years ago'." He spoke
several times of patriotism, striking a deliberate contrast with Jeremy Corbyn's
refusal to sing the national anthem.

"I love Britain. I love our history and what we've given to the world.

"I love our get-up-and-go; that whenever we're down, we're never out. I love our
character; our decency; our sense of humour."

He dismissed Scottish demands for independence, defeated in last year's
referendum. "I love every part of our country.

"England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland - we are one nation and I will
defend our Union with everything I have got."

Mr Cameron wanted his two terms in office to be remembered as a "defining
decade" when the economy was turned round in the first term, and society
strengthened in the second term. "I believe we can make this era - these 2010s -
a defining decade for our country," he is expected to say.

"The turnaround decade - one which people will look back on and say 'That's the
time when the tide turned, when people no longer felt the current going against
them but working with them'."

Echoing a quote from his favourite film, Lawrence Of Arabia, the Prime Minister
will say that his Government intends to demonstrate that "nothing is written",
and that with the right policies, the deepest social problems - such as poor
school achievement by children from disadvantaged backgrounds - can be overcome.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 04:30 PM GMT

US airman who helped foil Paris train terror attack in hospital after stabbing

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 53 words


One of the Americans who overpowered a gunman on a Paris-bound train this summer
has been stabbed repeatedly in California.

US airman Spencer Stone is in a stable condition following surgery after the
attack in Sacramento last night.

He was one of three Americans who managed to tackle the suspect to the ground in
August.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 04:30 PM GMT

US airman who helped foil Paris train terror attack in hospital after stabbing

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 95 words


1 US Stone

FRANCE TRAIN HERO SPENCER STONE STABBED IN CALIFORNIA

US airman Spencer Stone, who helped subdue an attacker on a French train in
August, is in a stable condition after being stabbed in California, a US air
force spokesman said.

Mr Stone is being treated in a hospital in the Sacramento area, said Lt Col
Christopher Karns, who added that details are sketchy.

Mr Stone is assigned to Travis air force base in California.

Lt Col Karns said the matter is being handled by local law enforcement
officials.

He had no details on the nature or exact location of the stabbing.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday

Tel Aviv Shares Gain Despite Terror Attacks

LENGTH: 101  words



HIGHLIGHT: Tel Aviv shares rallied on October 7 despite two terrorist attacks in
the Israeli city.


News: Tel Aviv shares rallied on October 7 despite two terrorist attacks in the
Israeli city, reports Haaretz. The benchmark TA-25 index ended 1.4% higher at
1,534.86 points, while the TA-100 gained 1.1% to 1,337.14, all on turnover of
ILS1.26bn (USD330mn). The blue chip gainers were led by Bezeq and Israel
Chemicals, which surged 4.65% to ILS7.94 (USD2.05) and 4.7% to ILS21.62
(USD5.60) respectively. Rallies were also seen in the fixed-income market, with
the government's 10-year shekel bond rising by 0.25% to lower its yield to
2.15%, while its inflation-linked bond advancing 0.56% to a yield of 0.75%.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 9:02 PM GMT

French train terror attack hero Spencer Stone "repeatedly stabbed" in chest
'while protecting friend';
Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been attacked

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 418 words


French train attack hero Spencer Stone is in a stable condition after being
repeatedly stabbed in California.

Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been knifed.

Stone, one of three Americans who helped thwart a terror attack on a French
train in August, was reportedly stabbed four times.

"A1C Spencer Stone has been transported to a local hospital, and is currently
being treated for injury," Air Force spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher
Karns said in an email in Air Force Times.

"The incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement. He is
currently in stable condition."

The 25-year-old tackled Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after the heavily armed
terror suspect opened fire on a Paris train in August.

Unconfirmed reports said Stone suffered critical stab wounds during an assault
in midtown Sacramento early on Thursday.

Officers were called at 12.46am to K Street where they found a man with multiple
stab wounds in his torso.

Police on the scene initially thought the victim may not survive the stabbing,
rushing him to hospital.

However medical staff were able to stem the bleeding and he is expected to
survive.

Detectives are investigating the stabbing but refused to confirm if Stone was
the victim.

There have been no arrests and police as yet have no description of the
attacker.

Heroic marines give a gripping account of how they stopped the train gunman

Stones along with friends Alex Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were on holiday when
they subdued and disarmed and a heavily armed gunman on a train heading from
Amsterdam to Paris.

The gunman, who was armed with an AK-47, a Luger and a box cutter, stabbed Stone
during the fracas, leaving him needing hospital attention.

France awarded all three Americans and Brit hero Chris Norman, 62, the Legion of
Merit within days of the attack for preventing the terror attack.

Stone will now also receive the Purple Heart as well as the Airman's Medal.

On hearing the news social media was awash with messages of support for Stone.
Fellow train hero Skarlatos tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone
family today."

The assault does not appear to be hate crime, said police spokeswoman Officer
Traci Trapani.

Police ruled out the attack was terror related adding they believed it was due
to alcohol.

A tweet on the Sacramento Police official page read: "The assault incident is
not related to a terrorist act.

"Assault occurred near a bar, alcohol is believed to be a factor."

Paris to Amsterdam train Gunman

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dorset Echo

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday

Woman's terror as she is attacked during break-in - police seek witnesses

BYLINE: Meghan Hindley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


A TERRIFIED woman was forced to run onto a roof to escape after a man smashed
his way into her house and attacked her, police said.

Residents have spoken of their shock after the early hours assault at a property
in Weymouth town centre.

Dorset Police are appealing for witnesses to come forward after a man allegedly
broke into the 35-year-old woman's home and attacked her. A man has been
arrested and charged in connection with the incident.

Police said it happened at around 3.45am on Sunday, September 27 in East Street
and officers now wish to speak with late-night revellers who were passing and
may have seen what happened and can help the investigation.

A man allegedly smashed an upstairs window and forced entry to the property
before attacking the woman.

Officers said the woman managed to escape by running onto the roof of a bay
window.

Detective Constable Rhys Griffiths, of Weymouth CID, said: "I am aware that
there were a number of people in the area at the time of the incident and I'm
appealing to those witnesses, who we haven't yet spoken with, to contact me on
101.

"All calls will be treated in strict confidence."

Officers have said that the victim and the alleged offender are known to each
other.

A spokesman for Dorset Police said the victim, a 35-year-old local woman,
sustained facial injuries as a result of the incident and was taken to Dorset
County Hospital for treatment. Significant damage was caused to the property
during the incident.

Cllr Francis Drake, spokesman for community safety, said: "I am quite shocked by
this incident.

"This is what we should be pushing, to make sure people are safe in their own
homes. "I feel sorry for the lady. We don't want this happening in Weymouth. It
is up to the police to investigate this now and take it forward."

Angela Moss, 57, who lives in the town centre said: "I am always out and about
in the town and I live just round the corner.

"You wouldn't think this would happen on your doorstep. I am really shocked. I
hope the woman is okay, my thoughts go out to her. It must have been a horrible
experience."

Kevin Pierce, 62, who lives on East Street, said: "I can't even imagine how the
lady must have felt. What a horrible incident. Everybody knows everybody round
here but this is the first I have heard of it. I hope anyone who saw anything
will come forward and help the police."

Witnesses and anyone with information should call Dorset Police in confidence on
101 quoting incident number 27:87. Alternatively, witnesses can call
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

Police said a 35-year-old Exeter man has been arrested and has been charged with
causing grievous bodily harm with intent and attempted burglary.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 9:34 PM GMT

Hero who helped stop France train terror attack stabbed repeatedly while
defending friend

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 734 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" in the chest while defending a
friend in California on Wednesday night.

CCTV footage has now emerged of the knife attack in which Mr Stone suffered
"significant" injuries during a street brawl while out with friends in
Sacramento, California.

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive and a homicide investigation was launched, according to a local news
channel.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is currently undergoing surgery
at a local hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

The incident, which took place at 12.45am on Thursday morning, is not thought to
be linked to Mr Stone's heroic efforts.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Sacramento Police Deputy Chief Ken Bernard said: "This is not related to what
happened in France a couple of months ago.

"The assault appears to be related to a nightclub incident. It was a dispute
between two groups of people."

Officers sealed off a two-block area after the attack and interviewed a man and
a woman - but no arrests have been made.

Mr Bernard said his team were hunting two Asian men in their 20s who fled in a
dark Toyota Camry.

SKY NEWS

CCTV footage of the attack has emerged

SKY NEWS

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive

He was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento, Califronia.

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Alek Skarlatos, who helped Mr Stone tackle the suspected gunman to the floor,
tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

It emerged that Mr Skarlatos, who attends Umpqua Community College, narrowly
missed a mass shooting on campus where a gunman killed nine people last week.

The 22-year-old should have been in class at the college in Roseburg, Oregon,
but was instead rehearsing for the US television show Dancing with the Stars.

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

REUTERS

Mr Stone was one of three Americans to tackle the suspected terrorist

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Stone was slashed by the attacker and later required surgery to reattach part
of his hand.

In an interview Mr Stone described how he choked the suspected terrorist
unconscious.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr Stone said: "We ran down and tackled him. I put him in a choke-hold and it
seemed like he was pulling more weapons left and right. He pulled out a handgun,
Alek took that, then a box cutter and he was jabbing it at me.

"We let go and all three of us started punching him while he was in the middle
of us.

Mr Stone added: "I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while
Alek was hitting him in the head with a pistol or rifle."

When asked what was going through his mind he simply said: "Survival. And for my
friends and everyone else on the train to make it."

REUTERS

The three Americans along with Briton Chris Norman were awarded for their
bravery Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND
AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train
terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El
Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 7:53 PM GMT

Hero who helped stop France train terror attack stabbed repeatedly while
defending friend

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 496 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" while defending a friend in
California on Wednesday night.

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is currently undergoing surgery
at a local hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

He was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento, Califronia.

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Alek Skarlatos, who helped Mr Stone tackle the suspected gunman to the floor,
tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

REUTERS

Mr Stone was one of three Americans to tackle the suspected terrorist

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Stone was slashed by the attacker and later required surgery to reattach part
of his hand.

In an interview Mr Stone described how he choked the suspected terrorist
unconscious.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr Stone said: "We ran down and tackled him. I put him in a choke-hold and it
seemed like he was pulling more weapons left and right. He pulled out a handgun,
Alek took that, then a box cutter and he was jabbing it at me.

"We let go and all three of us started punching him while he was in the middle
of us.

Mr Stone added: "I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while
Alek was hitting him in the head with a pistol or rifle."

When asked what was going through his mind he simply said: "Survival. And for my
friends and everyone else on the train to make it."

REUTERS

The three Americans along with Briton Chris Norman were awarded for their
bravery Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND
AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train
terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El
Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 5:21 PM GMT

BREAKING: France train terror attack hero stabbed in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 323 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" while defending a friend in
California on Wednesday night.

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is currently undergoing surgery
at a local hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

He was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento, Califronia.

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Skarlatos tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

More to follow...

Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND AK-47 and
planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train terror attack
handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El Khazzani
claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 5:17 PM GMT

BREAKING: France train terror attack hero stabbed in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 293 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" while defending a friend in
California on Wednesday night.

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is currently undergoing surgery
at a local hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

He was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento, Califronia.

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

More to follow...

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS
claims he 'FOUND AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who
foiled train terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman
suspect Ayoub El Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 5:04 PM GMT

BREAKING: France train terror attack hero stabbed in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 221 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

REUTERS

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed in the US

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" in California on Wednesday night and
is currently undergoing surgery.

The American tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris bound
train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is being treated at a local
hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

He was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento, Califronia.

The hero was reportedly stabbed multiple times in the torso after a fight near
some popular bars in downtown Sacramento, police told an American broadcaster.

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

More to follow...

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 4:48 PM GMT

BREAKING: France train terror attack hero stabbed in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 135 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

REUTERS

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed in the US

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" in California on Wednesday night and
is currently undergoing surgery.

The American tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris bound
train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is being treated at a local
hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

He is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for preventing a
deadly terrorist attack.

Mr Stone was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" in Sacramento,
Califronia.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is being treated at a local
hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

More to follow...

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 4:34 PM GMT

France train terror attack hero stabbed in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 96 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

REUTERS

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed in the US

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" in California on Wednesday night and
is currently undergoing surgery.

The American tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris bound
train in August.

He is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for preventing a
deadly terrorist attack.

Mr Stone was reportedly stabbed "four times in the chest" and is currently in a
stable condition.

More to follow...

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 7:10 PM GMT

Spencer Stone: US airman who helped foil terror attack on French train survives
stabbing in Sacramento;
The 23-year-old wasstabbed in the chest four times on a street corner shortly
before 1am on Thursday, sustainingsuchserious injuries that police initially
treated the incident as a homicide

BYLINE: TIM WALKER

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 654 words


Spencer Stone, the US airman who helped to foil a terror attack on a French
train in August, is reportedly in stable condition after being stabbed in
California.

Mr Stone, 23, was stabbed in the chest four times on a street corner in
Sacramento shortly before 1am on Thursday, the

Air Force Times

reported. So serious were his injuries that police initially treated the
incident as a homicide, but Mr Stone is now expected to survive.

In a statement, the US Air Force said: "Airman 1st Class Spencer Stone has been
transported to a local hospital, and is currently being treated for injury. The
incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement. He is
currently in stable condition."

Alek Skarlatos , Spencer Stone, and Anthony Sadler were given heroes' welcomes
upon their return to Sacramento (Reuters)

Mr Stone is stationed at Travis Air Force Base, around 40 miles from Sacramento.
According to local news station KCRA, the stabbing occurred after a fight broke
out while he was socialising with friends in the city's downtown area.

When the August attack took place, Mr Stone was on holiday in Europe with two
childhood friends: Anthony Sadler, 23, a student at Sacramento State University,
and Oregon National Guard Specialist Alek Skarlatos, 22, who had recently
returned from duty in Afghanistan.

Read more

Heroic airman Spencer Stone was napping when gunman attacked

France train attack: Three US heroes had swapped carriages because the WiFi was
rubbish

France train gunman was known to intelligence services

Train gunman Ayoub El-Khazzani is 'dumbfounded' at terror allegations

On 21 August, the three men were aboard a high-speed train from Amsterdam to
Paris when Ayoub El-Khazzani, a Moroccan-born man with ties to radical Islam,
opened fire in their carriage. With assistance from other passengers, the
Americans disarmed, subdued and restrained him.

The gunman had been armed with an assault rifle, a handgun, a bottle of petrol
and a box-cutter knife. Mr Stone, the first of the trio to tackle him, was
slashed in the neck and hand as he held El-Khazzani in a chokehold. He later
required surgery to reattach part of his hand.

"It looked like he just kept pulling more weapons left and right," Mr Stone
would later tell reporters. "He seemed like he was willing to fight to the end -
so were we."

A trained medic, Mr Stone also went to the aid of French-American academic Mark
Moogalian, who had been shot in the neck when he confronted El-Khazzani. Mr
Moogalian's wife, Isabelle Risacher, later credited the young airman with having
saved her husband's life.

Spencer Stone was also awarded the Airman's Medal for his role in disarming the
gunman (EPA)

Mr Stone recovered in Germany before returning to the US. Along with Mr
Skarlatos, Mr Sadler and Chris Norman, a 62-year-old British businessman who
also helped to subdue the gunman, he was awarded the French Legion of Honour by
President Francoise Hollande.

Several others who assisted, including Mr Moogalian, are also to receive the
honour, France's highest award. Mr Stone and his friends received congratulatory
phone-calls from US President Barack Obama, and were feted with a parade upon
their return to Sacramento last month.

Propelled to overnight fame, Mr Stone's friends have since become television
personalities. Mr Sadler appeared on NBC's

The Tonight Show

, where host Jimmy Fallon presented him with a new car. Mr Skarlatos is a
contestant on the latest series of ABC's

Dancing with the Stars

.

Mr Stone, who is 6'4", was reportedly known as "Captain America" during his
military training. Last month it was announced that he would be awarded the
Purple Heart for his actions on the train, and promoted two ranks to staff
sergeant. The promotion is due to take effect on 1 November.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 7:10 PM GMT

Spencer Stone: US airman who helped foil terror attack on French train survives
stabbing in Sacramento;
The 23-year-old wasstabbed in the chest four times on a street corner shortly
before 1am on Thursday, sustainingsuchserious injuries that police initially
treated the incident as a homicide

BYLINE: TIM WALKER

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 688 words


Less than two months after he was injured while helping to foil a terror attack
on a French train, US airman Spencer Stone has been stabbed during a late-night
altercation in California.

Police said Mr Stone, 23, was stabbed in the torso four times at a street corner
in Sacramento shortly before 1am on Thursday, suffering wounds to the heart and
lung. So serious were his injuries that the incident was initially investigated
as a homicide, but Mr Stone is now in serious but stable condition at the city's
UC Davis Medical Centre.

The 6'4" airman was socialising with a group of one male and three female
friends when the stabbing took place. Police are hunting two men who fled the
scene in a dark-coloured Toyota Camry. "The assault incident is not related to a
terrorist act," Sacramento police

said

on Twitter. "Assault occurred near a bar; alcohol is believed to be a factor."

Mr Stone is stationed at Travis Air Force Base, some 40 miles from Sacramento.
He reportedly left the Badlands nightclub in the city's midtown neighbourhood
shortly before the incident. The stabbing was the result of

"a very unfortunate altercation between two groups of folks who were enjoying
the nightlife," Deputy Police Chief Ken Bernard said at a press conference.

Alek Skarlatos, Spencer Stoneand Anthony Sadler were given heroes' welcomes upon
their return to Sacramento (

Reuters

)

Bryan Romandia, an employee at a nearby off-licence, told the

Sacramento Bee

he had seen the store's CCTV footage of the incident, which appeared to show Mr
Stone taking on six assailants single-handed. "It looks like it is one against
six, but you can't really tell," he said. "It looks like a big old scrum."

When the August terror attack took place, Mr Stone was on holiday in Europe with
two childhood friends: Anthony Sadler, 23, a student at Sacramento State
University, and Oregon National Guard Specialist Alek Skarlatos, 22, who had
recently returned from duty in Afghanistan.

On 21 August, the three men were aboard a high-speed train from Amsterdam to
Paris when Ayoub El-Khazzani, a Moroccan-born man with ties to radical Islam,
opened fire in their carriage. With assistance from other passengers, the
Americans disarmed, subdued and restrained him.

Mr Stone, the first of the trio to tackle him, was slashed in the neck and hand
with a box-cutter knife as he held El-Khazzani in a chokehold. He later required
surgery to reattach his thumb, which had almost been severed in the bloody
struggle. Mr Stone later said of the gunman, "He seemed like he was willing to
fight to the end - so were we."

A trained medic, Mr Stone also went to the aid of French-American academic Mark
Moogalian, who had been shot in the neck when he confronted El-Khazzani. Mr
Moogalian's wife, Isabelle Risacher, later credited the young airman with having
saved her husband's life.

Spencer Stone was also awarded the Airman's Medal for his role in disarming the
gunman (

EPA

)

A trained medic, Mr Stone also went to the aid of French-American academic Mark
Moogalian, who had been shot in the neck when he confronted El-Khazzani. Mr
Moogalian's wife, Isabelle Risacher, later credited the young airman with having
saved her husband's life.

Along with Mr Skarlatos, Mr Sadler and Chris Norman, a 62-year-old British
businessman who also helped to subdue the gunman, he was awarded the French
Legion of Honour. Mr Stone and his friends were welcomed to the White House and
feted with a parade in Sacramento.

Last month it was announced that Mr Stone would be awarded the Purple Heart for
his actions, and promoted two ranks to staff sergeant. Mr Skarlatos is a
contestant on the latest series of ABC's

Dancing with the Stars

.

Read more

Heroic airman Spencer Stone was napping when gunman attacked

France train attack: Three US heroes had swapped carriages because the WiFi was
rubbish

France train gunman was known to intelligence services

Train gunman Ayoub El-Khazzani is 'dumbfounded' at terror allegations

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 3:10 PM GMT

Iain Duncan Smith blames 9/11 for his failure to be elected Prime Minister;
Former Tory leader said Tony Blair 'milked' the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: Matt Dathan

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 381 words


Iain Duncan Smith has blamed the 9/11 terrorist attacks on his failure to be
elected Prime Minister and claimed Tony Blair "milked" the aftermath "for all
that was worth".

British politics and media coverage was dominated by the West's response to the
multiple attacks on the United States which killed 3,000 people and consequently
Mr Duncan Smith, who was elected as the new Tory leader the day after the
atrocities in 2001, did not receive the typical bounce in support that new
Leaders of the Opposition usually enjoy, he claimed.

Mr Duncan Smith, the current Work and Pensions Secretary, claimed

Mr Blair took full advantage by focussing on foreign affairs.

Speaking at a fringe event at the Conservative party conference in Manchester
this week, he said:"The day before I got elected the twin towers were struck.So
first of all we got no lift on my announcement. It had to be buried the
following day, hardly anybody was paying attention.

"The following day I appeared for the statement in the House, straight in. I
didn't sleep that night, had to sort out shadow cabinet positions, got them all
done, got in there and we were straight in."

He added:"When the nation is at war there is only one person [the public] look
to.It is the prime minister because the prime minister is powerful. He is the
one that directs it andBlair of course milked that for all it was worth. It was
impossible for weeks and months to get anywhere near any domestic debate.

"We did make some progress on [the issue] of healthcare and then bingo, the
issue of Iraq happened. And from that moment onwards it was almost all war.

"So no complaint. I just simply make the point that it is very difficult to make
headway as leader of the opposition unless you have the playing field to fight
on and that is domestic policy."

He was

speaking

at an event organised by the Centre for Social Justice think tank, which he
founded in 2004 - a year after he was ousted as leader.

The Tories delayed the announcement of Mr Duncan Smith's election as leader
until two days after the 9/11 attacks as a mark of respect.

He failed to gain any traction with voters throughout his leadership and in
autumn 2003, just two years after being elected leader, he lost a no-confidence
vote among his own MPs and was replaced with Michael Howard.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 2:24 PM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1267 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria
     ·    Russia's air strikes coincided with a new offensive by Syrian army
          troops
     ·    NGO claims Russian strikes have hit medical facilities, killing
          civilians


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army and Russia began a
coordinated attack on towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign yesterday coincided with a new offensive by Syrian
army troops aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Scroll down for video

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

To coincide with the airstrikes, Syrian government troops and allied militia
today launched an offensive against rebels in the Ghab Plain in western Syria,
the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

Insurgents had advanced into the area in July, building on gains that posed a
threat to the coastal region vital to President Bashar al-Assad's control of
western Syria and catalysing Russia's intervention on his side.

Rami Abdulrahman, director of the Observatory, said ground forces were targeting
insurgent-held areas with heavy barrages of surface-to-surface missiles, as
Russian jets bombed from above.

Abdulrahman added that an offensive launched by the Syrian army and its foreign
allies yesterday in nearby areas of Hama province had failed to make significant
gains.

'Thirteen regime forces were killed. There are only seven confirmed dead among
the (rebel) fighters, but the number is certainly more than seven.'

NATO WARNS IT WILL DEPLOY TROOPS IN ORDER TO PROTECT TURKEY

NATO is prepared to respond 'with force' should member Turkey face any threat
from Moscow's military involvement in Russia.

Jens Stoltenberg, NATO secretary-general, said alliance defence ministers will
today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the 'troubling
escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces if needed to defend alliance member
Turkey, which over the weekend reported back-to-back violations of its airspace
by Russian warplanes.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

While the Russian airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian
authorities claim the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, a U.S.-based NGO claims three medical facilities have been struck by
Russian planes and missiles in the past week.

Widney Brown, the director of Physicians for Human Rights said: 'Bashar
al-Assad's forces have been relentlessly attacking Syria's health care system
for the past four years and the Russian government is now following in their
footsteps.

'These attacks are inexcusable. Claiming that the fight is against terrorists
does not give any government the right to tear up the laws of war, which
specifically protect health workers and facilities.'

The organisation stated three instances of Russian air strikes hitting field
hospitals and ambulance depots on October 2 and 3 in the areas of Latamneh,
Benin and Latakia.

And in what may be a bid to justify civilian deaths, the Russian ministry
released drone footage it claimed showed 'terrorists' taking refuge inside
civilian areas such as mosques.

It stated ISIS militants were manoeuvring their weaponry into civilian areas
because the Russian army's 'armament detection and threat of immediate
liquidation' was proving so effective.

The footage showed vehicles being parked near mosques and other residential
areas.

The new Russian offensive is expected to heap further pressure on Europe's
precarious migrant crisis.

The UN and Turkey have both warned there could be an exodus of three million
refugees as the four-year conflict - which has already displaced millions -
escalates even further,  The Times reports.

Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has warned Russia that its
military action in Syria is endangering trade ties with Turkey.

Erdogan told a group of journalists en-route from Brussels to Tokyo that Ankara
could look elsewhere for gas supplies and cancel the construction of its first
nuclear power plant, which is being built by Russia. Russia supplies 60 per cent
of Turkey's gas needs.

'Losing Turkey would be a serious loss for Russia,' Erdogan said. 'If necessary,
Turkey could seek to procure natural gas from different places.'

The comments, which were published Thursday in the Hurriyet newspaper, come amid
tensions with Russia over the airstrikes which Turkey and allies say have mainly
targeted moderate Syrian opposition groups, and over the Russian warplanes'
violation of Turkey's air space.

In Russia, President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin had
been informed about Erdogan's remarks but hoped they would not affect the
relations between the two countries.

He said: 'We sincerely hope that these relations will continue to expand
according to the plans mapped out by Putin and Erdogan because this cooperation
is genuinely mutually beneficial and is in the interests of both our countries.'

In his comments, Erdogan also accused Russia of attempting to increase its
military presence and create a base in Syria and described the situation as
'unacceptable'.

Moscow is backing President Bashar Assad while Turkey insists on his ouster.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 12:25 PM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1313 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria
     ·    Russia's air strikes coincided with a new offensive by Syrian army
          troops
     ·    NGO claims Russian strikes have hit medical facilities, killing
          civilians


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army and Russia began a
coordinated attack on towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign yesterday coincided with a new offensive by Syrian
army troops aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Scroll down for video

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

To coincide with the airstrikes, Syrian government troops and allied militia
today launched an offensive against rebels in the Ghab Plain in western Syria,
the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

Insurgents had advanced into the area in July, building on gains that posed a
threat to the coastal region vital to President Bashar al-Assad's control of
western Syria and catalysing Russia's intervention on his side.

Rami Abdulrahman, director of the Observatory, said ground forces were targeting
insurgent-held areas with heavy barrages of surface-to-surface missiles, as
Russian jets bombed from above.

Abdulrahman added that an offensive launched by the Syrian army and its foreign
allies yesterday in nearby areas of Hama province had failed to make significant
gains.

'Thirteen regime forces were killed. There are only seven confirmed dead among
the (rebel) fighters, but the number is certainly more than seven.'

While the Russian airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian
authorities claim the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, a U.S.-based NGO claims three medical facilities have been struck by
Russian planes and missiles in the past week.

Widney Brown, the director of Physicians for Human Rights said: 'Bashar
al-Assad's forces have been relentlessly attacking Syria's health care system
for the past four years and the Russian government is now following in their
footsteps.

'These attacks are inexcusable. Claiming that the fight is against terrorists
does not give any government the right to tear up the laws of war, which
specifically protect health workers and facilities.'

The organisation stated three instances of Russian air strikes hitting field
hospitals and ambulance depots on October 2 and 3 in the areas of Latamneh,
Benin and Latakia.

And in what may be a bid to justify civilian deaths, the Russian ministry
released drone footage it claimed showed 'terrorists' taking refuge inside
civilian areas such as mosques.

It stated ISIS militants were manoeuvring their weaponry into civilian areas
because the Russian army's 'armament detection and threat of immediate
liquidation' was proving so effective.

The footage showed vehicles being parked near mosques and other residential
areas.

The new Russian offensive is expected to heap further pressure on Europe's
precarious migrant crisis.

The UN and Turkey have both warned there could be an exodus of three million
refugees as the four-year conflict - which has already displaced millions -
escalates even further,  The Times reports.

Meanwhile, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said alliance defense
ministers will today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the
'troubling escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces, if needed, to defend alliance member
Turkey.

Yesterday Russian warships fired cruise missiles in the first combined
air-and-ground assault with Syrian government troops since Moscow began its
military campaign in the country last week.

Over the weekend, Turkey reported back-to-back violations of its airspace by
Russian warplanes.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.'

NATO on Monday issued a statement demanding that the violations cease. Russia
called its penetration of Turkish airspace a minor incident that was
unintentional. Stoltenberg had already brushed off the Russian explanation.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

TURKISH AND RUSSIAN TENSIONS GROW AMID AIR STRIKES

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has warned Russia that its military
action in Syria is endangering trade ties with Turkey.

Erdogan told a group of journalists en-route from Brussels to Tokyo that Ankara
could look elsewhere for gas supplies and cancel the construction of its first
nuclear power plant, which is being built by Russia. Russia supplies 60 per cent
of Turkey's gas needs.

'Losing Turkey would be a serious loss for Russia,' Erdogan said. 'If necessary,
Turkey could seek to procure natural gas from different places.'

The comments, which were published Thursday in the Hurriyet newspaper, come amid
tensions with Russia over the airstrikes which Turkey and allies say have mainly
targeted moderate Syrian opposition groups, and over the Russian warplanes'
violation of Turkey's air space.

In Russia, President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin had
been informed about Erdogan's remarks but hoped they would not affect the
relations between the two countries.

He said: 'We sincerely hope that these relations will continue to expand
according to the plans mapped out by Putin and Erdogan because this cooperation
is genuinely mutually beneficial and is in the interests of both our countries.'

In his comments, Erdogan also accused Russia of attempting to increase its
military presence and create a base in Syria and described the situation as
'unacceptable'.

Moscow is backing President Bashar Assad while Turkey insists on his ouster.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 11:31 AM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1050 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria
     ·    Russia's air strikes coincided with a new offensive by Syrian army
          troops
     ·    NGO claims Russian strikes have hit medical facilities, killing
          civilians


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army and Russia began a
coordinated attack on towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign yesterday coincided with a new offensive by Syrian
army troops aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Scroll down for video

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

To coincide with the airstrikes, Syrian government troops and allied militia
today launched an offensive against rebels in the Ghab Plain in western Syria,
the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

Insurgents had advanced into the area in July, building on gains that posed a
threat to the coastal region vital to President Bashar al-Assad's control of
western Syria and catalysing Russia's intervention on his side.

Rami Abdulrahman, director of the Observatory, said ground forces were targeting
insurgent-held areas with heavy barrages of surface-to-surface missiles, as
Russian jets bombed from above.

Abdulrahman added that an offensive launched by the Syrian army and its foreign
allies yesterday in nearby areas of Hama province had failed to make significant
gains.

'Thirteen regime forces were killed. There are only seven confirmed dead among
the (rebel) fighters, but the number is certainly more than seven.'

While the Russian airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian
authorities claim the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, a U.S.-based NGO claims three medical facilities have been struck by
Russian planes and missiles in the past week.

Widney Brown, the director of Physicians for Human Rights said: 'Bashar
al-Assad's forces have been relentlessly attacking Syria's health care system
for the past four years and the Russian government is now following in their
footsteps.

'These attacks are inexcusable. Claiming that the fight is against terrorists
does not give any government the right to tear up the laws of war, which
specifically protect health workers and facilities.'

The organisation stated three instances of Russian air strikes hitting field
hospitals and ambulance depots on October 2 and 3 in the areas of Latamneh,
Benin and Latakia.

And in what may be a bid to justify civilian deaths, the Russian ministry
released drone footage it claimed showed 'terrorists' taking refuge inside
civilian areas such as mosques.

It stated ISIS militants were manoeuvring their weaponry into civilian areas
because the Russian army's 'armament detection and threat of immediate
liquidation' was proving so effective.

The footage showed vehicles being parked near mosques and other residential
areas.

The new Russian offensive is expected to heap further pressure on Europe's
precarious migrant crisis.

The UN and Turkey have both warned there could be an exodus of three million
refugees as the four-year conflict - which has already displaced millions -
escalates even further,  The Times reports.

Meanwhile, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said alliance defense
ministers will today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the
'troubling escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces, if needed, to defend alliance member
Turkey.

Yesterday Russian warships fired cruise missiles in the first combined
air-and-ground assault with Syrian government troops since Moscow began its
military campaign in the country last week.

Over the weekend, Turkey reported back-to-back violations of its airspace by
Russian warplanes.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.'

NATO on Monday issued a statement demanding that the violations cease. Russia
called its penetration of Turkish airspace a minor incident that was
unintentional. Stoltenberg had already brushed off the Russian explanation.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 10:17 AM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 954 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria
     ·    Russia's airstrikes coincided with a new offensive by Syrian army
          troops


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army and Russia began an
attack on towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign yesterday coincided with a new offensive by Syrian
army troops aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Scroll down for video

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

To coincide with the airstrikes, Syrian government troops and allied militia
launched an offensive against rebels in the Ghab Plain in western Syria, the
Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

Insurgents had advanced into the area in July, building on gains that posed a
threat to the coastal region vital to President Bashar al-Assad's control of
western Syria and catalysing Russia's intervention on his side.

Rami Abdulrahman, director of the Observatory, said ground forces were targeting
insurgent-held areas with heavy barrages of surface-to-surface missiles, as
Russian jets bombed from above.

Abdulrahman, whose organisation uses sources on the ground to track the
conflict, also said that an offensive launched by the Syrian army and its
foreign allies on Wednesday in nearby areas of Hama province had failed to make
significant gains.

'Thirteen regime forces were killed. There are only seven confirmed dead among
the (rebel) fighters, but the number is certainly more than seven.'

While the Russian airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian
authorities claim the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, a U.S.-based NGO claims three medical facilities have been struck by
Russian planes and missiles in the past week.

Widney Brown, the director of Physicians for Human Rights said: 'Bashar
al-Assad's forces have been relentlessly attacking Syria's health care system
for the past four years and the Russian government is now following in their
footsteps.

'These attacks are inexcusable. Claiming that the fight is against terrorists
does not give any government the right to tear up the laws of war, which
specifically protect health workers and facilities.'

The organisation stated three instances of Russian air strikes hitting field
hospitals and ambulance depots on October 2 and 3 in the areas of Latamneh,
Benin and Latakia.

And in what may be a bid to justify civilian deaths, the Russian ministry
released drone footage it claimed showed 'terrorists' taking refuge inside
civilian areas such as mosques.

Meanwhile, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said alliance defense
ministers will today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the
'troubling escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces, if needed, to defend alliance member
Turkey.

Yesterday Russian warships fired cruise missiles in the first combined
air-and-ground assault with Syrian government troops since Moscow began its
military campaign in the country last week.

Over the weekend, Turkey reported back-to-back violations of its airspace by
Russian warplanes.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.'

NATO on Monday issued a statement demanding that the violations cease. Russia
called its penetration of Turkish airspace a minor incident that was
unintentional. Stoltenberg had already brushed off the Russian explanation.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 9:56 AM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 771 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army began a major attack on
towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign yesterday coincided with a new offensive by Syrian
army troops aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Scroll down for video

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

However, a U.S. based NGO claims three medical facilities have been struck by
Russian planes and missiles in the past week.

Widney Brown, the director of Physicians for Human Rights said: 'Bashar
al-Assad's forces have been relentlessly attacking Syria's health care system
for the past four years and the Russian government is now following in their
footsteps.

'These attacks are inexcusable. Claiming that the fight is against terrorists
does not give any government the right to tear up the laws of war, which
specifically protect health workers and facilities.'

The organisation stated three instances of Russian air strikes hitting field
hospitals and ambulance depots on October 2 and 3 in the areas of Latamneh,
Benin and Latakia.

And in what may be a bid to justify civilian deaths, the Russian ministry
released drone footage it claimed showed 'terrorists' taking refuge inside
civilian areas such as mosques.

While the airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian authorities
said the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said alliance defense
ministers will today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the
'troubling escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces, if needed, to defend alliance member
Turkey.

Yesterday Russian warships fired cruise missiles in the first combined
air-and-ground assault with Syrian government troops since Moscow began its
military campaign in the country last week.

Over the weekend, Turkey reported back-to-back violations of its airspace by
Russian warplanes.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.'

NATO on Monday issued a statement demanding that the violations cease. Russia
called its penetration of Turkish airspace a minor incident that was
unintentional. Stoltenberg had already brushed off the Russian explanation.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 9:28 AM GMT

Russia's cruise missiles are seen speeding through the skies on their way to
'destroy ISIS targets' as Syrian army begins 'major attack' on towns held by '
terrorists'

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words



     ·    Footage purports to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through skies
     ·    The two missiles were launched from warships located in the Caspian
          Sea
     ·    Iraq and Iran are in their flight path as they travel to their targets
          in Syria


Footage has emerged purporting to show Russian cruise missiles soaring through
the skies of Iraq and Iran yesterday as the Syrian army began a major attack on
towns occupied by 'terrorists'.

Posted online by a Kurdish Peshmerga account, two objects are seen travelling
through the sky at a exceptionally low height somewhere in the Kurdistan region
of Iraq and Iran.

The two countries are in the flight path of Russian missiles being launched by
Putin's warships in the Caspian Sea - 900miles away from their intended ISIS
targets.

Russia's bombing campaign coincided with a new offensive by Syrian army troops
aimed at retaking towns held by opposing rebel factions.

Cruise missiles are distinguishable by the method in which they are delivered -
they can travel at low heights and at a constant trajectory.

The short clip appears to be filmed from a rooftop around dusk and the camera
pans to follow the missiles across the skyline. Two loud roars can also be heard
as the two missiles travel past several seconds apart.

Yesterday Russian warships joined the conflict with volleys of cruise missile
attacks targeting plants for manufacturing shells and explosive devices, command
centres, ammunition dumps and training camps, the Russian Defence Ministry said.

Video released by the ministry shows the warships launching the missiles which
it insisted destroyed all its ISIS targets and did not hit any civilian areas.

While the airstrikes have raised concerns among NATO members, Syrian authorities
said the attacks have weakened ISIS and other armed groups, while giving its
military a boost.

General Ali Abdullah Ayoub, the Syrian armed forces chief, said Syria's military
started a 'big attack' to take back towns and villages 'which have suffered from
terrorism'.

Using the Arabic term 'Daesh' for ISIS, he added: 'After the Russian air strikes
that weakened the fighting capabilities of Daesh and other terrorist
organisations, Syria's armed forces have maintained the military initiative.

Meanwhile, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said alliance defense
ministers will today consider the implications for NATO's own security of the
'troubling escalation of Russian military activities' in Syria.

He said NATO is ready to deploy forces, if needed, to defend alliance member
Turkey.

Yesterday Russian warships fired cruise missiles in the first combined
air-and-ground assault with Syrian government troops since Moscow began its
military campaign in the country last week.

Over the weekend, Turkey reported back-to-back violations of its airspace by
Russian warplanes.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and his counterparts from the 27 other NATO
nations had already been scheduled to meet Thursday in Brussels.

He said: 'In Syria, we have seen a troubling escalation of Russian military
activities. We will assess the latest developments and their implications for
the security of the alliance. This is particularly relevant in view of the
recent violations of NATO's airspace by Russian aircraft.'

NATO on Monday issued a statement demanding that the violations cease. Russia
called its penetration of Turkish airspace a minor incident that was
unintentional. Stoltenberg had already brushed off the Russian explanation.

'NATO is able and ready to defend all allies, including Turkey, against any
threat,' the secretary-general said Thursday. He said NATO had already increased
'our capacity, our ability, our preparedness to deploy forces, including to the
south, including in Turkey, if needed.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 7:44 AM GMT

'Terror never leaves you': London bombing survivor Gillian Hicks is 'angry'
about the latest terror attack on Australian soil... even though she always knew
it would happen

BYLINE: FRANK COLETTA FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 843 words



     ·    Gillian Hicks lost both legs in the 2005 London bomb blasts
     ·    She was not surprised when terror attacks occurred in Australia
     ·    Is angrier than ever about what happened 10 years ago but uses it for
          good
     ·    Dr Hicks is undertaking ten challenges for ten different charities
          including driving a rally car and tap-dancing
     ·    She has also been named ambassador for physiotherapists Australia


Ten years on from the London bombings which almost claimed her life,
double-amputee Gillian Hicks admitted she'll never recover and was not surprised
when terror found its way to Australia.

Dr Hicks, 47, said she was angrier than ever.

'What has surprised me is my own anger, it is an increasing anger as years go by
but that anger I have been able to make it a very positive motivator, rather
than turn it into a negative,' she said.

'This is why I never use the word recover, it is with me for life, every single
day I live with the effects of violent extremism.'

And she is urging Australians not to let the latest act of terrorism break
communities.

'Nowhere is immune to the destructive ideology,' she added.

'The very point of terrorism is that it can carry itself in a host and I look at
it as very much a parasite and it is very sad that host is a religion that
everyone who is practising that religion is suffering equally the effects of
terrorism.'

'Terror never leaves you,' she revealed to Daily Mail Australia, 'but the anger
keeps me up and it keeps me going.'

It's an impetus she is using to complete a remarkable series of ten challenges
for different charities by the end of the year.

Challenges which include tap dancing, taking on the highest vertical race in
Australia, the Eureka Tower run up 88 floors in Melbourne next month and racing
a rally car.

'I went to dance classes, I had an amazing teacher and it ended up being quite
an emotional feat, quite an overwhelming little concert,' she added.

GILLIAN HICKS' TEN CHALLENGES TO MARK 10 YEARS SINCE LONDON BOMBING IN AID OF
TEN CHARITIES

1. Has abseiled Adelaide's tallest building

2. Tap danced at a concert in Adelaide

3. Abseiled in London with best friend and paramedic Tracy Russell

4. Hand-cycled a bike around London

5. Will go racing in a rally car

6. To swim with sharks this month

7. Bungee jumping in December

8. Eureka Tower climb up 88 floors in Melbourne in November

9. She sang again at a live venue last Friday after more than 15 years

10. 'The last challenge will be a big surprise'

'I have to find an automatic race car, I didn't realise most were manual when I
set it but we'll work on that.

'They are challenges I really wanted to do, to explore where I was 10 years on,
rather than just make verbal statements.'

'I could think of no better way to commemorate the ten years since the moment
that my life, as I knew it, changed forever, than creating a series of physical
challenges.'

That includes already having abseiled down Adelaide's tallest building (132
metres) and doing the same back in London - remarkable feats considering she
lost both her legs in the July 7 blasts which killed 52 people and injured more
than 700.

'When Sydney [the Martin Place siege) happened I was in Sydney the next day
because any atrocity like this where people are overcome by the blindness of
ideology is a great travesty,' she added.

'This is not okay, a completely senseless act, a lot of people didn't come home
that day [London] and more people haven't since or losing limbs, that's
infuriating.

'Holding onto hatred and being bitter serve very little purpose - that's been my
greatest epiphany of what happened to me post the bombing.

Gillian returned to Russell Square Tube station in London in July, where she had
boarded a train on her way to work that fateful morning 10 years back, when
suicide bomber Germaine Lindsay killed 26 people.

Dr Hicks broke down in tears as she hugged Andrew Maxwell outside King's Cross
station.

He was one of the police officers who moved her to safety by using a makeshift
stretcher to carry her out of a Tube tunnel, so she could receive emergency
medical treatment.

Gillian is also ambassador for the 2015 "I Love My Physio" campaign for the
Australian Physiotherapy Association.

'I had to re-learn not just walking but how to re-balance, every single thing I
had to be taught was by these brilliant very skilled people,' she said.

'The physios were present from the start, they were there when I came out of
surgery, those discussions, thoughts and plans were already happening then to
enable me to have the best possible life going forward.

It wasn't until after the bombings changed her life that Gillian decided to
dedicate herself to being an advocate for peace.

After living in London for many years, she returned to Adelaide in 2012.

'We can't let these events divide our communities, we must more than ever become
stronger societies,' she added.

'In that inclusiveness, where we learn more about each other, hopefully that can
help eradicate anyone slipping through the chasm that division creates to be
seduced by ideologies.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 7:49 PM GMT

French train terror attack hero Spencer Stone "repeatedly stabbed" in chest
'while protecting friend';
Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been attacked

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 532 words


French train attack hero Spencer Stone was in a stable condition after being
repeatedly stabbed in the chest while "trying to protect a friend".

Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been knifed
while out in California with reported injuries sustained to his heart and left
lung.

When police arrived on the scene they initially began treating it as a murder
investigation such was the severity of his wounds.

A defence official told America's ABC news Stone, who was one of three Americans
who helped thwart the terror attack in August, was defending a friend at the
time.

He was reportedly stabbed four times. The Pentagon confirmed the serviceman's
attack.

"A1C Spencer Stone has been transported to a local hospital, and is currently
being treated for injury," Air Force spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher
Karns said in an email in Air Force Times.

"The incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement."He is
currently in stable condition."

The 25-year-old tackled Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after the heavily armed
terror suspect emerged opened fire on a Paris train in August.Stone suffered
critical wounds during the assault in midtown Sacramento early today.

Officers were called at 12.46am to K Street where they found him with multiple
stab wounds in his torso.

Police on the scene initially thought Stone may not survive the stabbing rushing
him to hospital.

However medical staff were able to stem the bleeding and he is expected to
survive.

Detectives are now investigating the stabbing but so far have refused to confirm
if Stone was the victim.

There have been no arrests and police as yet have no description of the
attacker.

Heroic marines give a gripping account of how they stopped the train gunman

Stones along with friends Alex Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were on holiday when
they subdued and disarmed and a heavily armed gunman on a train heading from
Amsterdam to Paris.

The gunman, who was armed with an AK-47, a Luger and a box cutter, stabbed Stone
during the fraca, leaving him needing hospital attention.

France awarded all three Americans and Brit hero Chris Norman, 62, the Legion of
Merit within days of the attack.Stone will now also receive the Purple Heart as
well as the Airman's Medal.

Paris to Amsterdam train Gunman

On hearing the news social media was awash with messages of support for Stone.

Fellow train hero Skarlatos, who appears on the American version of Strictly
Come Dancing, tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today."

The assault does not appear to be hate crime, said police spokeswoman Officer
Traci Trapani.

At a press conference police said they were looking for two men in connection
with the attack.

Sacramento Police Deputy Chief Ken Bernard confirmed the serviceman was stabbed
multiple times adding he had very significant injuries that appeared
non-life-threatening.

He says investigators are searching for two Asian men who fled in a
dark-coloured 2009 to 2012 Toyota Camry.

Bernard says Stone was out with four other people and a fight with another group
led to the stabbing near a bar.

They added they were unsure if Stone was drinking alcohol, but others in his
group were.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 5:24 PM GMT

French train terror attack hero Spencer Stone "repeatedly stabbed" in chest
'while protecting friend';
Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been attacked

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words


French train attack hero Spencer Stone was in a stable condition after being
repeatedly stabbed in the chest while "trying to protect a friend".

Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been knifed
while out in California with reported injuries sustained to his heart and left
lung.

When police arrived on the scene they initially began treating it as a murder
investigation such was the severity of his wounds.

A defence official told America's ABC news Stone, who was one of three Americans
who helped thwart the terror attack in August, was defending a friend at the
time.

He was reportedly stabbed four times. The Pentagon confirmed the serviceman's
attack.

"A1C Spencer Stone has been transported to a local hospital, and is currently
being treated for injury," Air Force spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher
Karns said in an email in Air Force Times.

"The incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement."He is
currently in stable condition."

The 25-year-old tackled Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after the heavily armed
terror suspect emerged opened fire on a Paris train in August.Stone suffered
critical wounds during the assault in midtown Sacramento early today.

Officers were called at 12.46am to K Street where they found him with multiple
stab wounds in his torso.

Police on the scene initially thought Stone may not survive the stabbing rushing
him to hospital.

However medical staff were able to stem the bleeding and he is expected to
survive.

Detectives are now investigating the stabbing but so far have refused to confirm
if Stone was the victim.

There have been no arrests and police as yet have no description of the
attacker.

Heroic marines give a gripping account of how they stopped the train gunman

Stones along with friends Alex Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were on holiday when
they subdued and disarmed and a heavily armed gunman on a train heading from
Amsterdam to Paris.

The gunman, who was armed with an AK-47, a Luger and a box cutter, stabbed Stone
during the fraca, leaving him needing hospital attention.

France awarded all three Americans and Brit hero Chris Norman, 62, the Legion of
Merit within days of the attack.Stone will now also receive the Purple Heart as
well as the Airman's Medal.

Paris to Amsterdam train Gunman

On hearing the news social media was awash with messages of support for Stone.

Fellow train hero Skarlatos, who appears on the American version of Strictly
Come Dancing, tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today."

The assault does not appear to be hate crime, said police spokeswoman Officer
Traci Trapani.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 4:52 PM GMT

French train terror attack hero Spencer Stone "repeatedly stabbed" in street;
Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been attacked

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


French train attack hero Spencer Stone was in a stable condition today after
being stabbed in California.

Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been knifed.

Stone, one of three Americans who helped thwart a terror attack on a French
train in August, was reportedly stabbed four times.

"A1C Spencer Stone has been transported to a local hospital, and is currently
being treated for injury," Air Force spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher
Karns said in an email in Air Force Times.

"The incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement.  "He is
currently in stable condition."

The 25-year-old tackled Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after the heavily armed
terror suspect emerged opened fire on a Paris train in August.

Unconfirmed reports said Stone suffered critical stab wounds during an assault
in midtown Sacramento early today.

Officers were called at 12.46am to K Street where they found a man with multiple
stab wounds in his torso.

Police on the scene initially thought the victim may not survive the stabbing
rushing him to hospital.

However medical staff were able to stem the bleeding and he is expected to
survive.

Detectives are investigating the stabbing but refused to confirm if Stone was
the victim.

There have been no arrests and police as yet have no description of the
attacker.

Heroic marines give a gripping account of how they stopped the train gunman

Stones along with friends Alex Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were on holiday when
they subdued and disarmed and a heavily armed gunman on a train heading from
Amsterdam to Paris.

The gunman, who was armed with an AK-47, a Luger and a box cutter, stabbed Stone
during the fraca, leaving him needing hospital attention. France awarded all
three Americans the Legion of Merit within days of the attack.

Stone will now also receive the Purple Heart as well as the Airman's Medal.

Paris to Amsterdam train Gunman

Chris Norman, 62, a British consultant also got the Legion of Merit for his part
in stopping the attack.

On hearing the news Skarlatos tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone
family today."

On hearing the news social media was awash with messages of support for
Stone.Fellow train hero Skarlatos tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the
Stone family today.

The assault does not appear to be hate crime, said police spokeswoman Officer
Traci Trapani.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 4:43 PM GMT

French train terror attack hero Spencer Stone "repeatedly stabbed" in street;
Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been attacked

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


French train attack hero Spencer Stone was in a stable condition today after
being stabbed in California.

Bosses from the US Air Force confirmed the Airman First Class had been knifed.

Stone, one of three Americans who helped thwart a terror attack on a French
train in August, was reportedly stabbed four times.

"A1C Spencer Stone has been transported to a local hospital, and is currently
being treated for injury," Air Force spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher
Karns said in an email in Air Force Times.

"The incident is currently under investigation by local law enforcement.  "He is
currently in stable condition."

The 25-year-old tackled Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after the heavily armed
terror suspect emerged opened fire on a Paris train in August.

Chris Norman, 62, a British consultant also got the Legion of Merit for his part
in stopping the attack.

Unconfirmed reports said Stone suffered critical stab wounds during an assault
in midtown Sacramento early today.

Officers were called at 12.46am to K Street where they found a man with multiple
stab wounds in his torso.

Police on the scene initially thought the victim may not survive the stabbing
rushing him to hospital.

However medical staff were able to stem the bleeding and he is expected to
survive.

Detectives are investigating the stabbing but refused to confirm if Stone was
the victim.

There have been no arrests and police as yet have no description of the
attacker.

Stones along with friends Alex Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were on holiday when
they subdued and disarmed and a heavily armed gunman on a train heading from
Amsterdam to Paris.

The gunman, who was armed with an AK-47, a Luger and a box cutter, stabbed Stone
during the fraca, leaving him needing hospital attention. France awarded all
three Americans the Legion of Merit within days of the attack.

Stone will now also receive the Purple Heart as well as the Airman's Medal.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Five arrested after Sydney terror attack

BYLINE: Roger Maynard, Sydney

SECTION: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND

LENGTH: 172 words


Five males aged from 16 to 24 were arrested in counter-terrorism raids after a
civilian police worker was shot dead in Sydney.

Curtis Cheng was shot in the back of the head by a 15-year-old schoolboy, Farhad
Jabar, outside Parramatta police station on Friday. The teenager, who had walked
from a mosque, was shot dead by a special constable.

More than 200 armed officers swooped on homes in the western suburbs of the city
around dawn yesterday. Police said that four of those arrested were directly
linked to the killing of Mr Cheng, and to extremist groups in Australia and
overseas. At least one is believed to be an associate of Omarjan Azari, a terror
suspect arrested last year over an alleged plot to behead a member of the public
in Australia.

The arrests suggest that Jabar was not a lone wolf but may have conspired with
others. Detectives are still investigating how he got the gun. According to
Sydney's Daily Telegraph, a letter found in his backpack contained a series of
Islamic rants and the threat: "Let the blood flow."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Hero of train terror attack is stabbed in street brawl

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BUCKTIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 181 words


TRAIN attack hero Spencer Stone was repeatedly knifed in his home city
yesterday.

The US Air Force serviceman was found by police called to a fight near a bar in
Sacramento, California.

Officers feared he would die after being stabbed four times in the torso but
rushed him to hospita.

Last night he was described as being stable with "significant injuries".

Police are hunting two Asian men who fled in a car after the knifing of Airman
Stone - one of three Americans joined by a Briton in foiling a terror attack on
a French train in August.

They said Stone, 25, was out with friends and was wounded when his party got
into a 12.45am street fight with another group.

Police added: "The assault is not related to a terrorist act or hate crime.

"Alcohol is believed to be a factor."

They were "unsure" if Stone had been drinking.

Stone was also knifed as he and his fellow heroes tackled armed Moroccan terror
suspect Ayooub El-Khazaani, who had opened fire on the Paris train.

France awarded all four the Legion d'Honneur.

Train hero Alex Skarlatos tweeted: "Everybody send the Stone family prayers."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'STABLE' Knife victim Stone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Engineer Online

                             October 9, 2015 Friday

Drone defence system could thwart UAV terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


UK engineers have unveiled technology designed to identify and disable rogue
UAVs

Designed by three British firms - Blighter Surveillance Systems, Chess Dynamics
and Enterprise Control Systems - the Anti-UAV Defence System (AUDS) has been
developed in response to growing fears that drones could be used to mount terror
attacks.

The technology could be used to thwart UAV-based terror attacks

Launched at last month's DSEI show in London, the system is able to detect a
drone five miles (8 km) away using electronic scanning radar, track it using
infrared and daylight cameras and specialist software before disrupting the
flight using an inhibitor to block the radio signals that control it.

Key features of the system include a quad band inhibitor which enables the AUDS
operator to disrupt the different licensed telemetry bands of commercial drones
no matter where in the world they are designed and licensed for use.

The technology can also be used to disrupt the global satellite (GNSS) bands
that UAV's typically require access to in order to fly in an autonomous mode.

The system also boats a so-called "optical disruptor", which the AUDS operator
can use to disrupt the automatic gain control settings in the drone's camera
system so that the drone's pilot loses visibility. This technology can also be
used to provide a very precise identification of known UAV launch activity to
any ground forces.

Mark Radford, CEO of Blighter Surveillance Systems said that the launch of the
system follows extensive trials carried out across Europe and North America over
the spring and summer. "We have so far carried out over 150 hours of live
testing in government organised trials operating against more than 200 flown
sorties of group 1 UAVs. Feedback from our own team and from customers was for a
greater level of modularity to speed deployment and to minimise the need for
multi person set-up teams. This has now been implemented in the production
version - yet another example of our team's fleet footedness."

Commenting on the technology's likely application areas Graham Beall, managing
director of Chess Dynamics added: "It's expected that unmanned aircraft systems
(UAS) will be used increasingly for malicious purposes as they can carry
cameras, weapons, toxic chemicals and explosives and are being used increasingly
for terrorism, espionage and smuggling purposes. Our system has been developed
to address this urgent operational requirement."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                   Copyright 2015 Centaur Communications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 2:10 AM GMT

Hero who helped stop France train terror attack stabbed repeatedly while
defending friend

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 794 words


ONE of the heroes who helped to thwart a terror attack on a French train has
been stabbed in the US.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, was "stabbed repeatedly" in the chest while defending a
friend in California on Wednesday night.

CCTV footage has now emerged of the knife attack in which Mr Stone suffered
"significant" injuries during a street brawl while out with friends in
Sacramento, California.

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive and a homicide investigation was launched, according to a local news
channel.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Mr Stone is currently in a stable condition and is undergoing surgery at a local
hospital, an Air Force official has confirmed.

The incident, which took place at 12.45am on Thursday morning, is not thought to
be linked to Mr Stone's heroic efforts.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Sacramento Police Deputy Chief Ken Bernard said: "This is not related to what
happened in France a couple of months ago.

"The assault appears to be related to a nightclub incident. It was a dispute
between two groups of people."

Officers sealed off a two-block area after the attack and interviewed a man and
a woman - but no arrests have been made.

Mr Bernard said his team were hunting two Asian men in their 20s who fled in a
dark Toyota Camry.

SKY NEWS

CCTV footage of the attack has emerged

SKY NEWS

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive

He was stabbed three times in the torso, according to a doctor treating him.

Chief medical officer Douglas Kirk of the UC David Medical Centre said Stone is
expected to make a full recovery.

He said the airman has "significant injuries" and is heavily sedated.

But he declined to discuss any details about the surgery or whether any of
Stone's vital organs were damaged.

Kirk added: "I suspect given his history of recent events he is quite a
fighter."

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Alek Skarlatos, who helped Mr Stone tackle the suspected gunman to the floor,
tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

It emerged that Mr Skarlatos, who attends Umpqua Community College, narrowly
missed a mass shooting on campus where a gunman killed nine people last week.

The 22-year-old should have been in class at the college in Roseburg, Oregon,
but was instead rehearsing for the US television show Dancing with the Stars.

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

REUTERS

Mr Stone was one of three Americans to tackle the suspected terrorist

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Stone was slashed by the attacker and later required surgery to reattach part
of his hand.

In an interview Mr Stone described how he choked the suspected terrorist
unconscious.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr Stone said: "We ran down and tackled him. I put him in a choke-hold and it
seemed like he was pulling more weapons left and right. He pulled out a handgun,
Alek took that, then a box cutter and he was jabbing it at me.

"We let go and all three of us started punching him while he was in the middle
of us.

Mr Stone added: "I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while
Alek was hitting him in the head with a pistol or rifle."

When asked what was going through his mind he simply said: "Survival. And for my
friends and everyone else on the train to make it."

REUTERS

The three Americans along with Briton Chris Norman were awarded for their
bravery Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND
AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train
terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El
Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 9, 2015 Friday 11:45 AM GMT

Chilling new video shows suspects jogging away from scene after stabbing French-
terror train attack hero Spencer Stone as it's revealed he's in intensive care
with collapsed lung

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON, CHRIS SPARGO and SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1196 words



     ·    Stone was stabbed four times in the chest in Sacramento early Thursday
     ·    Was taken to hospital with serious injuries, but is expected to
          recover
     ·    Footage of the incident shows him fighting off a group of three men
     ·    Video released by police shows suspects getting into a car moments
          later
     ·    Cops are still searching for two Asian men in connection to the attack


     ·    They have insisted the brawl was not terrorist-related
     ·    Stone's father Brian said: 'This world is not short of idiots'


Chilling footage has emerged of suspects jogging away from the scene and getting
into a car moments after French-terror train hero Spencer Stone was stabbed.

Police are still searching for two Asian men after the hero U.S. airman was
knifed during a fight on a night out with friends in Sacramento.

The 23 year old, who foiled a potential terrorist attack in August, was stabbed
'four times in the chest' shortly after 12.45am on Thursday after leaving a gay
bar with friends.

He suffered a collapsed lung and is being treated in an intensive care unit -
but is expected to survive. A 24-year-old woman also suffered minor injuries
during the confrontation.

The new video shows the men approaching a vehicle that pulled up on the street.
The pair then get in before the car drives off.

The 23-year-old U.S. airman 1st class was one of the three Americans who managed
to take down a gunman as he opened fire on a Paris-bound train this past August
- and nearly had his thumb severed from his hand with a box cutter during that
incident.

His father Brian Stone told  People  magazine: 'He's out of surgery and doing
well. He's been upgraded so no longer critical and it looks like he's going to
be okay. All I can say is that this world is not short of idiots.'

A shocking clip of the brawl shows Stone fighting off a group of three men on
his own and lunging at them while others attempt to break them up.

An attacker then appears to pull out a sharp instrument and stab Stone. His
shirt appears to turn a dark shade of red as he stumbles away and his attackers
disperse from the scene.

A source told the  Sacramento Bee  that Stone was with three female friends and
one male friend and had just left the gay bar Badlands when the attack occurred.

Police are now looking for two adult Asian males who fled in a dark Toyota
Camry. In a news conference on Thursday they repeatedly stressed that the
incident was not a terrorist act or a hate crime.

Cops have said the attack was not terrorist related and may have been caused by
alcohol.

Stone was taken to the UC Davis Medical Center where he is being treated for the
serious injuries he received during the assault.

The stabbing happened at 12.45am at the intersection of 21st and K in the city
and the crime was so violent that two blocks of the street were shut down .

Initially police did not believe that Stone would be able to survive his
injuries.

Stone was in a sling just last month from the injury he suffered during the
August attack, and may have still had on his brace to protect his thumb.

'It is believed that the victim was out with a group of friends when a physical
altercation led to the victim being stabbed multiple times in his upper body,'
police said in a statement.

'Detectives were called to the scene to assist with the investigation and the
victim is currently being treated for what appears to be non-life threatening
injuries.'

A man and woman were questioned by police after the attack, but it is not known
if they were taken into custody.

No one else involved in the melee suffered any injuries.

A Badlands employee told the  Los Angeles Times  that Stone left about 45
minutes before the fight started, though it is not known where he went at that
time.

Detectives were seen at the club - which bills itself as 'Sacramento's Premier
Gay Nightclub' on their website - Thursday afternoon speaking with staff inside.



The club was hosting their weekly EDM, Trap, Bass, and Dubstep night on
Wednesday, which features $1 well drinks from 11PM to midnight, just before the
incident occurred.

It is not known if Stone was drinking on Wednesday night.

'The assault does not appear to be a random act,' said Sacramento deputy police
chief Ken Bernard during a press conference Thursday morning.

'It's believed to be related to a nightclub incident.

'There was a dispute that led to the altercation. There was conversations and
then it continued down the block to where the stabbing occurred.'

Authorities said they have still been unable to speak to Stone.

Stone's cousin, Paige, 22, told DailyMail.com: 'I talked to my dad on the phone
and Spencer is going to be okay. They didn't know if he'd survive at first, but
he will be okay. Still waiting on more details from my aunt.

'He has an incredible faith and I really think God played a huge part in his
recovery. He has gone through so much, yet still survives these traumatic
experiences.'

She said Stone is due to undergo emergency surgery.

'I'm not sure if he's awake,' she added.

His parents also released a satement saying: 'The family of Airman Spencer Stone
appreciates the outpouring of love and support. Airman Stone is in serious
condition. His family requests that the media respect his right to privacy at
this time.'

In the French train attack, Stone was stabbed with a box cutter when he, along
with childhood friends Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, took down Morocco-born
Ayooub El-Khazaani after he opened fire in August on a train bound for Paris.

He had to undergo surgery to reattach part of his hand after the incident.

Stone was the first of the three to reach the man after he was awakened by the
sound of gunfire and managed to take him down - saving countless lives thanks to
his heroics.

Even after his thumb had been almost completely severed by El-Khazaani, he still
began to treat others who were injured on the train.

'He seemed like he was willing to fight to the end - so were we,' Stone said of
the gunman after the attack in an interview with NBC.

Only a few weeks ago, President Barack Obama met Stone and praised him alongside
Skarlatos and Sadler for their teamwork, courage and quick-thinking actions that
averted 'a real calamity'.

Obama said Stone was 'making real progress' and intends to pursue work in
medicine.

Stone also went to the Pentagon and was awarded the prestigious Airman's Medal
and a Purple Heart.

They previously had been awarded France's highest honor - the Legion d'Honneur -
by President Francois Hollande.

Skarlatos tweeted his support to the Stone family on Thursday, writing:
'Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today.'

He also said that his friend is 'one tough guy'.

The three friends all grew up near Sacramento, and the city held a parade for
them on September 11 to honor their courageous act.

Stone is assigned to the Travis Air Force Base which is just outside Sacramento,
and grew up in nearby Carmichael.

'My thoughts and prayers go out to Spencer Stone and the Stone family. I ask
that everyone respect the family's privacy at this time,' said Mayor Kevin
Johnson.

Any individuals with information about the latest attack are asked to contact
the Sacramento Police Department at 916-264-5471 or Crime Alert at 916-443-HELP.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 6:37 AM GMT

'They should be protecting us': Mum of teen arrested for 'threatening police'
over terror attack in Parramatta says HER family is in danger and should be
given protection

BYLINE: MARTHA AZZI, FRANK COLETTA and DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL
AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 569 words



     ·    'It is the job of the police, they have to protect us and take care of
          its people'
     ·    Teen allegedly posted Facebook messages saying police should 'burn in
          hell'
     ·    Mother told her son to go to his room when he attempted to talk
     ·    Student was arrested on his way to school on Tuesday
     ·    Daily Mail Australia broke news he had been arrested to his family


The mother of the 17-year-old boy arrested on Tuesday for allegedly supporting
gunman Farhad Jabar's shooting of a NSW police employee on social media says her
family deserves police protection.

In an interview with Daily Mail Australia - who were the first to inform her
that her son had been arrested this week - the woman said it is the job of
police to protect Australian citizens and keep them safe.

The teenager, who allegedly posted Facebook messages saying the police should
'burn in hell', stood beside his mother as she told about the night her home was
raided, her son's alleged comments and his arrest outside Arthur Phillip High
School on Tuesday.

'It's the job of the police, they have to protect us and take care of its
people,' she said.

Scroll down for videos

The boy was charged earlier this week with assaulting a police officer,
intimidating police, resisting arrest and using a carriage service to menace,
harass and offend.

But in relation to the police raid on their home that night, where police seized
two laptops and several other items, the woman would only say 'there is no
problem'.

On several occasions the youth attempted to have his say but was chided by his
mother. His mother repeatedly requested he go to his room stopping him from
making any further comment.

He was arrested on his way to school, the same one attended by killer Farhad
Jabar, 15, after allegedly posting Facebook messages that police would 'burn in
hell'.

He is also alleged to have posted comments including 'no justice, no peace, f**k
the police', as well as 'serves you right I hope them lil piggies get shot'
above a news report about the Parramatta shooting.

On Friday, despite being warned by his mother, the young boy did manage to utter
'there's nothing to say, everything is good.'

When Daily Mail Australia broke the news of the boy's arrest to the family on
Tuesday afternoon, his mother pledged to punish the boy, who was granted strict
conditional bail later that evening.

'She's going to give him a big lecture, scream at him, send him to his room,'
said the boy's brother, acting as a translator for his mother.

'He's a good boy but he's too much talk. He has a big mouth'.

When the boy's mother and brother were told about the boy's arrest for allegedly
threatening police on social media, they were stunned.

They tried to ring the school, but no one picked up - so they called the police.

'I found out you guys have my brother,' the boy's brother told the police at
Parramatta Station on the phone. 'I'm hearing he has been arrested... I want an
update'.

When the boy came on the line, his brother didn't hold back, telling him: 'Speak
properly, where are you?'.

After the 17-year-old responded that he was 'at the cop shop', his brother, a
student, asked angrily: 'What's a "cop shop?"'

Once the boy hung up after their short short conversation, his mother started to
cry.

'We know he has a big mouth but we never knew he did this. We are as clueless as
you,' his brother told Daily Mail Australia.

The boy is expected to appear at a children's court on November 9.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 3:52 AM GMT

Australia's Islamic leader REFUSES to call the Parramatta shooting a terrorist
attack - speaking in Arabic to 'express himself properly' even though the Grand
Mufti has lived here for 18 years

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED
PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 861 words



     ·    Grand Mufti Dr Ibahim Abu Mohamed calls for extremists to 'stop
          messing with Australia'
     ·    Dr Mohamed condemned all acts of terrorism and extended his
          condolences to the families of the lost
     ·    He would not call the shooting an act of terror as there is not yet
          enough evidence
     ·    'There's not enough information so far about that. We are not an
          investigative body'
     ·    'We call upon all people of good will to stand against fear mongering'


An Islamic religious leader has called for the extremists behind the Parramatta
shooting to 'stop messing with Australia' in remarks where he stopped short of
describing the incident as an act of terror.

Grand Mufti of Australia Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed joined community leaders on
Friday morning in coming together to 'refuse and reject' all terrorist acts and
extend their condolences to the families of the dead.

'We say to those who supported that, stop messing with Australia and its
society,' Dr Mohamed said via an interpreter, when he was asked what his message
was for extremists in the Australian community.

Pressed over whether he believed the shooting could be considered a terrorist
act, Dr Mohamed - an acclaimed Egyptian-born author and thinker who moved to
Australia from Abu Dhabi in 1997 - said he could not say as there is not yet
enough information.

Scroll down for video

'There's not enough information so far about that. Without enough information
and given we are not an investigating body, I cannot comment on that.'

'Generally speaking and utterly, we refuse and reject any form of terrorist
activities, whether this, if it's proven to be a terrorist act, or any other
one.'

In the aftermath of the attack, NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione
described 15-year-old gunman Farhad Jabar's attack as 'politically motivated and
therefore linked to terrorism'.

Finance worker Curtis Cheng was gunned down by Jabar, a Year 10 student at the
nearby Arthur Phillip High School, as he left the office for the week on his way
home from work.

The gunman, from North Parramatta, wore a black robe and reportedly shouted
religious slogans before he was shot dead by police special constables.

A police investigation into the incident remains underway, with
counter-terrorism raids across western Sydney on Wednesday said to be linked to
the attack.

During Friday's media conference, the Grand Mufti called for better dialogue
between Muslim families, the wider community and security agencies, such as ASIO
and the police.

'What we need is collaboration and proper communication between the families and
the community and us.

'We also need proper forms of communication with the government institutions
like security agencies, police because these are the agencies that are
responsible for the protection of us and everybody.

'We want proper forms of dialogue between us and the rest of the Australian
society, proper dialogue so that we can engage into learning exercises and to
refute any misperceptions.

'We believe that dialogue is the prerequisite of understanding.'

Islamic community leaders told the press conference they had seen a spike in
hate messages and threats of violence since the shooting.

'We call upon people of good will to stand against fearmongering and injustice,'
a spokeswoman told reporters.

'The issue of violent extremism is a rare but serious problem facing the entire
community. Sadly, a very, very small number of Australians of Muslim faith have
chosen this path.

'There are no simple answers to the problem.'

Father Rod Bower of Gosford Anglican Church said the collective response to the
shooting would 'determine how we live as a community for generations to come'.

'These conversations are of ultimate importance. I come with a personal
commitment to participate in a conversation but not in the narrative that has in
some ways contributed to this tragedy. That is the dualistic story line of a
them and us.'

United Muslim Women Association director Maha Abdo said the Muslim community had
been 'under siege' in the past week.

GRAND MUFTI'S OFFICE RESPONDS TO ONLINE 'ENGLISH' CRITICISM

Some critics on social media at talkback radio took aim at Dr Mohamed for not
speaking English during the news conference on Friday.

Broadcaster Jason Morrison tweeted: 'Grand Mufti' urges the 'need for proper
dialog' with wider community but he does not speak English despite living in
Australia for 18 years'.

Journalist Deborah Knight tweeted: 'And apart from him not speaking English prob
not best idea for Press Release from Grand Mufti of Aust to start with 'Dear
Sirs'. Inclusive?'

'Why isn't the Grand Mufti speaking in English if this is about inclusiveness?'
asked another social media user.

Beth Rich, a representative of the Mufti's Office, said Dr Mohamed speaks fluent
conversational English and in general conversations has a 'fine' mastery of it.

However, Ms Rich - who does not speak Arabic and works closely with him - said
he prefers to speak Arabic discussing 'intense' matters at media conferences.

'It's just when you're using such eloquent language it's harder to express
himself properly and quickly - and so it's not misinterpreted.'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 2:42 AM GMT

Australia's Islamic leader REFUSES to call the Parramatta shooting a terrorist
attack - speaking in Arabic to 'express himself properly' even though the Grand
Mufti has lived here for 18 years

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words



     ·    Grand Mufti Dr Ibahim Abu Mohamed calls for extremists to 'stop
          messing with Australia'
     ·    Dr Mohamed condemned all acts of terrorism and extended his
          condolences to the families of the lost
     ·    He would not call the shooting an act of terror as there is not yet
          enough evidence
     ·    'There's not enough information so far about that. We are not an
          investigative body'
     ·    'We call upon all people of good will to stand against fear mongering'


An Islamic religious leader has called for the extremists behind the Parramatta
shooting to 'stop messing with Australia' in remarks where he said there was not
yet enough evidence to describe it as an act of terror.

Grand Mufti of Australia Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed joined community leaders on
Friday morning in coming together to 'refuse and reject' all terrorist acts and
extend their condolences to the families of the dead.

'We say to those who supported that, stop messing with Australia and its
society,' Dr Mohamed said via an interpreter, when he was asked what his message
was for extremists in the Australian community.

Pressed over whether he believed the shooting could be considered a terrorist
act, Dr Mohamed - an acclaimed Egyptian-born author and thinker who moved to
Australia from Abu Dhabi in 1997 - said he could not say as there is not yet
enough information.

Scroll down for video

'There's not enough information so far about that. Without enough information
and given we are not an investigating body, I cannot comment on that.'

'Generally speaking and utterly, we refuse and reject any form of terrorist
activities, whether this, if it's proven to be a terrorist act, or any other
one.'

Police commissioner Andrew Scipione described 15-year-old gunman Farhad Jabar's
attack as 'politically motivated and therefore linked to terrorism' at the
weekend.

Finance worker Curtis Cheng was gunned down by Jabar, a student at Arthur
Phillip High School, as he left the office on his way home from work.

The gunman wore a black robe and reportedly shouted religious slogans before he
was shot dead by police special constables.

During Friday's media conference, the Grand Mufti called for better dialogue
between Muslim families, the wider community and security agencies.

'We want proper forms of dialogue between us and the rest of the Australian
society, proper dialogue so that we can engage into learning exercises and to
refute any misperceptions.

'We believe that dialogue is the prerequisite of understanding.'

Islamic community leaders told the press conference it had seen a spike in hate
messages and threats of violence since the shooting.

A spokeswoman said: 'We call upon people of good will to stand against
fearmongering and injustice'.

'The issue of violent extremism is a rare but serious problem facing the entire
community. Sadly, a very, very small number of Australians of Muslim faith have
chosen this path.

'There are no simple answers to the problem.'

Some critics on social media at talkback radio took aim at Dr Mohamed for not
speaking English during the news conference. Broadcaster Jason Morrison tweeted:
'Grand Mufti' urges the "need for proper dialog" with wider community but he
does not speak English despite living in Australia for 18 years'.

Anchor Deborah Knight tweeted: 'And apart from him not speaking English prob not
best idea for Press Release from Grand Mufti of Aust to start with "Dear Sirs".
Inclusive?'

'Why isn't the Grand Mufti speaking in English if this is about inclusiveness?'
asked another social media user.

Beth Rich, a representative of the Mufti's Office, said Dr Mohamed speaks fluent
conversational English and in general conversations has a 'fine' mastery of it.

However, Ms Rich - who does not speak Arabic and works closely with him - said
he prefers to speak Arabic discussing 'intense' matters at media conferences.

'It's just when you're using such eloquent language it's harder to express
himself properly and quickly - and so it's not misinterpreted.'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 2:29 AM GMT

Australia's Grand Mufti REFUSES to call the Parramatta shooting of a police
worker a terrorist attack - speaking in Arabic to 'express himself properly'

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 568 words



     ·    Grand Mufti calls for extremists to 'stop messing with Australia'
     ·    Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed would not call shooting an act of terror
     ·    'There's not enough information... we are not an investigative body'
     ·    'We call upon all people of good will to stand against fear mongering'


An Islamic religious leader has called for the extremists behind the Parramatta
shooting to 'stop messing with Australia' in remarks where he said there was not
yet enough evidence to describe it as an act of terror.

Grand Mufti of Australia Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed joined community leaders on
Friday morning in coming together to 'refuse and reject' all terrorist acts and
extend their condolences to the families of the dead.

'We say to those who supported that, stop messing with Australia and its
society,' said Dr Mohamed said, via an interpreter, when he was asked what his
message was for extremists in the community.

Pressed over whether he believed it the shooting could be considered a terrorist
act, Dr Mohamed, an Egyptian-born author and thinker who moved to Australia in
1997, said he could not say as there is not yet enough information.

Scroll down for video

'There's not enough information so far about that. Without enough information
and given we are not an investigating body, I cannot comment on that.'

'Generally speaking and utterly, we refuse and reject any form of terrorist
activities, whether this, if it's proven to be a terrorist act, or any other
one.'

Police commissioner Andrew Scipione described 15-year-old gunman Farhad Jabar's
attack as 'politically motivated and therefore linked to terrorism' at the
weekend.

Finance worker Curtis Cheng was gunned down by Jabar as he left the office on
his way home from work. He wore a black robe and reportedly shouted religious
slogans as he slayed the accountant.

The Grand Mufti called for better dialogue between Muslim families, the wider
community and security agencies.

Islamic community leaders told the press conference it had seen a spike in hate
messages and threats of violence since the shooting.

A spokeswoman said: 'We call upon people of good will to stand against
fearmongering and injustice'.

'The issue of violent extremism is a rare but serious problem facing the entire
community. Sadly, a very, very small number of Australians of Muslim faith have
chosen this path.

'There are no simple answers to the problem.'

Some critics on social media at talkback radio took aim at Dr Mohamed for not
speaking English during the press conference.

Broadcaster Jason Morrison tweeted: 'Grand Mufti' urges the "need for proper
dialog" with wider community but he does not speak English despite living in
Australia for 18 years'.

Anchor Deborah Knight tweeted: 'And apart from him not speaking English prob not
best idea for Press Release from Grand Mufti of Aust to start with "Dear Sirs".
Inclusive?'

'Why isn't the Grand Mufti speaking in English if this is about inclusiveness?'
asked another social media user.

Beth Rich, a representative of the Mufti's Office, said Dr Mohamed speaks fluent
conversational English and in general conversations has a 'fine' mastery of it.

However, Ms Rich - who does not speak Arabic and works closely with him - said
he prefers to speak Arabic discussing 'intense' matters at media conferences.

'It's just when you're using such eloquent language it's harder to express
himself properly and quickly - and so it's not misinterpreted.'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 2:19 AM GMT

Australia's Grand Mufti REFUSES to call the Parramatta shooting of a police
worker a terrorist attack - speaking in Arabic to 'express himself properly'

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 546 words



     ·    Grand Mufti calls for extremists to 'stop messing with Australia'
     ·    Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed would not call shooting an act of terror
     ·    'There's not enough information... we are not an investigative body'
     ·    'We call upon all people of good will to stand against fear mongering'


An Islamic religious leader has called for the extremists behind the Parramatta
shooting to 'stop messing with Australia' in remarks where he declined to label
the incident a terrorist attack.

Grand Mufti of Australia Dr Ibrahim Abu Mohamed joined community leaders in
coming together to condemn violent extremism at a press conference on Friday
morning.

'We say to those who supported that, stop messing with Australia and its
society,' Dr Mohamed said, via an interpreter, when he was asked what his
message was for extremists.

Pressed over whether it was a terrorist act, Dr Mohamed, an Egyptian-born author
and thinker, said he could not say whether it was an act of terrorism as there
is not yet enough information.

Scroll down for video

'There's not enough information so far about that. Without enough information
and given we are not an investigating body, I cannot comment on that.'

'Generally speaking and utterly, we refuse and reject any form of terrorist
activities, whether this, if it's proven to be a terrorist act, or any other
one.'

Police commissioner Andrew Scipione described 15-year-old gunman Farhad Jabar's
attack as 'politically motivated and therefore linked to terrorism' at the
weekend.

Finance worker Curtis Cheng was gunned down by Jabar as he left the office on
his way home from work. He wore a black robe and reportedly shouted religious
slogans as he slayed the accountant.

The Grand Mufti called for better dialogue between Muslim families, the wider
community and security agencies.

Islamic community leaders told the press conference it had seen a spike in hate
messages and threats of violence since the shooting.

A spokeswoman said: 'We call upon people of good will to stand against
fearmongering and injustice'.

'The issue of violent extremism is a rare but serious problem facing the entire
community. Sadly, a very, very small number of Australians of Muslim faith have
chosen this path.

'There are no simple answers to the problem.'

Some critics on social media at talkback radio took aim at Dr Mohamed for not
speaking English during the press conference.

Broadcaster Jason Morrison tweeted: 'Grand Mufti' urges the "need for proper
dialog" with wider community but he does not speak English despite living in
Australia for 18 years'.

Anchor Deborah Knight tweeted: 'And apart from him not speaking English prob not
best idea for Press Release from Grand Mufti of Aust to start with "Dear Sirs".
Inclusive?'

'Why isn't the Grand Mufti speaking in English if this is about inclusiveness?'
asked another social media user.

Beth Rich, a representative of the Mufti's Office, said Dr Mohamed speaks fluent
conversational English and in general conversations has a 'fine' mastery of it.

However, Ms Rich - who does not speak Arabic and works closely with him - said
he prefers to speak Arabic discussing 'intense' matters at media conferences.

'It's just when you're using such eloquent language it's harder to express
himself properly and quickly - and so it's not misinterpreted.'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 1:44 AM GMT

Chilling new video shows suspects jogging away from scene after stabbing French-
terror train attack hero Spencer Stone as it's revealed he's in intensive care
with collapsed lung

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON, CHRIS SPARGO and SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1136 words



     ·    Stone was stabbed four times in the chest in Sacramento early Thursday
     ·    Was taken to hospital with serious injuries, but is expected to
          recover
     ·    Footage of the incident shows him fighting off a group of three men
     ·    Video released by police shows suspects getting into a car moments
          later
     ·    Cops are still searching for two Asian men in connection with the
          attack
     ·    They have insisted the brawl was not terrorist-related


Chilling footage has emerged of suspects jogging away from the scene and getting
into a car moments French-terror train hero Spencer Stone was stabbed.

Police are still searching for two Asian men after the hero US airman was knifed
during a fight on a night out with friends in Sacramento.

The 23 year old, who foiled a potential terrorist attack in August, was stabbed
'four times in the chest' shortly after 12:45am on Thursday after leaving a gay
bar with friends.

He suffered a collapsed lung and was being treated in an intensive care unit -
but is expected to survive.

The new video shows the men approaching a vehicle that pulled up on the street.
The pair then get in before the car drives off.

Scroll down for videos

A shocking clip of the brawl has also emerged, showing Stone fighting off a
group of three men on his own and lunging at them while others attempt to break
up them up.

An attacker then appears to pull out a sharp instrument and stab Stone. His
shirt appears to turn a dark shade of red as he stumbles away and his attackers
disperse from the scene.

A source told the  Sacramento Bee  that Stone was with three female friends and
one male friend and had just left the gay bar Badlands when the attack occurred.

Police are now looking for two adult Asian males who fled in a dark Toyota
Camry. In a news conference on Thursday they repeatedly stressed that the
incident was not a terrorist act or a hate crime.

Cops have said the attack was not terrorist related and may have been caused by
alcohol.

The 23-year-old U.S. airman 1st class was one of the three Americans who managed
to take down a gunman as he opened fire on a Paris-bound train this past August
- and nearly had his thumb severed from his hand with a box cutter during that
incident.

Stone was taken to the UC Davis Medical Center where he is being treated for the
serious injuries he received during the assault.

The stabbing happened at 12:45am at the intersection of 21st and K in the city
and the crime was so violent that two blocks of the street were shut down .

Initially police did not believe that Stone would be able to survive his
injuries.

He was in a sling just last month from the injury he suffered during the August
attack, and may have still had on his brace to protect his thumb.

'It is believed that the victim was out with a group of friends when a physical
altercation led to the victim being stabbed multiple times in his upper body,'
police said in a statement.

'Detectives were called to the scene to assist with the investigation and the
victim is currently being treated for what appears to be non-life threatening
injuries.'

A man and woman were questioned by police after the attack, but it is not known
if they were taken into custody.

No one else involved in the melee suffered any injuries.

A Badlands employee told the  Los Angeles Times  that Stone left about 45
minutes before the fight started, though it is not known where he went at that
time.

Detectives were seen at the club - which bills itself as 'Sacramento's Premier
Gay Nightclub' on their website - Thursday afternoon speaking with staff inside.



The club was hosting their weekly EDM, Trap, Bass, and Dubstep night on
Wednesday, which features $1 well drinks from 11PM to midnight, just before the
incident occurred.

It is not known if Stone was drinking on Wednesday night.

'The assault does not appear to be a random act,' said Sacramento Deputy Police
Chief Ken Bernard during a press conference Thursday morning.

'It's believed to be related to a nightclub incident.

'There was a dispute that led to the altercation. There was conversations and
then it continued down the block to where the stabbing occurred.'

Authorities said they have still been unable to speak to Stone.

Spencer Stone's cousin, Paige, 22, told DailyMail.com: 'I talked to my dad on
the phone and Spencer is going to be okay. They didn't know if he'd survive at
first, but he will be okay. Still waiting on more details from my aunt.

'He has an incredible faith and I really think God played a huge part in his
recovery. He has gone through so much, yet still survives these traumatic
experiences.'

She said Stone is due to undergo emergency surgery.

'I'm not sure if he's awake,' she added.

His parents also released a satement saying; 'The family of Airman Spencer Stone
appreciates the outpouring of love and support. Airman Stone is in serious
condition. His family requests that the media respect his right to privacy at
this time.'

Any individuals with information are asked to please contact the Sacramento
Police Department at 916-264-5471 or Crime Alert at 916-443-HELP.

Stone was stabbed with a box cutter when he, along with childhood friends Alek
Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, took down Morocco-born Ayooub El-Khazaani after he
opened fire in August on a train bound for Paris.

He had to undergo surgery to reattach part of his hand after the incident.

Stone was the first of the three to reach the man after he was awakened by the
sound of gunfire and managed to take him down - saving countless lives thanks to
his heroics.

Even after his thumb had been almost completely severed by El-Khazaani, he still
began to treat others who were injured on the train.

'He seemed like he was willing to fight to the end - so were we,' Stone said of
the gunman after the attack in an interview with NBC.

Only a few weeks ago, President Barack Obama met Stone and praised him alongside
Skarlatos and Sadler for their teamwork, courage and quick-thinking actions that
averted 'a real calamity.'

Obama said Stone was 'making real progress' and intends to pursue work in
medicine.

Stone also went to the Pentagon and was awarded the prestigious Airman's Medal
and a Purple Heart.

They previously had been awarded France's highest honor - the Legion d'Honneur -
by President Francois Hollande.

Skarlatos tweeted his support to the Stone family on Thursday, writing;
'Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today.'

He also said that his friend is 'one tough guy'.

The three friends all grew up near Sacramento, and the city held a parade for
them on September 11 to honor their courageous act.

Stone is assigned to the Travis Air Force Base which is just outside Sacramento,
and grew up in nearby Carmichael.

'My thoughts and prayers go out to Spencer Stone and the Stone family. I ask
that everyone respect the family's privacy at this time,' said Mayor Kevin
Johnson.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 8:53 PM GMT

Why is the world ignoring a wave of terror in Israel?;
Attacks like these do not occur in a vacuum. Such acts of pitiless slaughter are
the direct result of a pervasive Palestinian infrastructure

BYLINE: By Arsen Ostrovsky

LENGTH: 925 words


In the last week, my country, Israel, including our capital, the Holy City of
Jerusalem, have come under an unprecedented wave of Palestinian terror.

A week ago, Eitam and Na'ama Henkin were brutally executed by Palestinian
terrorists point-blank in their car. Their four children, Matan, 9, Nitzan, 7,
Neta, 4, and Itamar, 9 months old, who are now orphaned, were still in the back
seat and miraculously unharmed. Their lives are now irreparably altered.

Days later, two more Israelis were stabbed to death in Jerusalem. One of the men
killed was holding his two year old child at the time. More lives and families
torn apart.

Two weeks ago, Alexander Levlovitz, who was on his way home after Rosh Hashanah
(Jewish New Year) dinner, was murdered when Palestinian youths threw rocks at
his car and he lost control.

Over the past 48 hours in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and virtually all parts of Israel,
we have had over 150 terror attacks, including stabbings, shootings, stones
thrown and vehicular rammings.

Yet somehow the international community is silent in the face of this terror
onslaught against my people. Is our blood cheaper? Do Jewish lives not matter?

Let there be no mistakes, ifs, buts or maybes. We are being targeted for one
reason and one reason only: we are Jews.

I understand Europe has a number of pressing concerns, including Islamic State
and the wave of Syrian refugees, but what about us? Do we not count?

Many leaders, especially in Europe, are quick to condemn Israeli settlements,
yet sure take their time to utter a muddied, equivocal word of condemnation
against these terror attacks. Likewise human rights groups such as Human Rights
Watch and Amnesty.

Then I look at some of the media reporting on these attacks, such as that from
the BBC, and ask myself how on earth they can twist the facts and logic beyond a
semblance of recognition to actually place the blame on Israel.

"Only when the Palestinian leadership unequivocally renounces terrorism and
roots out and condemns all those who preach violence against Israel and hatred
of the Jewish people, can there be hope for real peace."

Even more exasperating are those international leaders who, after only noticing
the situation when Israel has the audacity to defend itself, then predictably
call for us to exercise "restraint". Excuse me? Restraint?

Imagine for a moment if people were being mown down with cars, guns or knives by
Islamic terrorists on the streets of central London, Paris, Washington or
Moscow. How would leaders of those countries react?

Where are all those so-called enlightened liberals, who continue to call for
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) against the Jewish State, but are silent
in the face of Palestinian terror against Jews?

Israelis, like all people, have the right to live in safety and security, free
from terror. And our government and security forces have an obligation to take
whatever action necessary to ensure this.

The tension across Israel, especially Jerusalem, is increasingly palpable.
Somehow this wave of terror feels different to last summer's rocket barrage from
Hamas. At least then we had the Iron Dome and time (albeit only 15 seconds) to
find shelter. But it is something much more intimate and personal when a
terrorist singles you out to kill you in cold-blood.

Many commentators and pundits are calling these "lone wolf" attacks. But how
many lone wolf attacks does it take to constitute a co-ordinated wave of terror?

The bottom line is that attacks like these do not occur in a vacuum. Such acts
of pitiless slaughter are the direct result of a pervasive Palestinian
infrastructure headed by PA President Mahmoud Abbas, indoctrinating hate,
inciting violence and instilling a worldview justifying such gruesome acts.

Barely a week ago, Abbas gave an incendiary speech before the plenary of the
United Nations General Assembly, all but giving a green light to this wave of
terror.

In a speech on Palestinian TV on September 16th, Abbas proudly stated "we bless
every drop of blood spilled for Jerusalem. With the help of Allah, every shaheed
(martyr) will be in heaven." He then added "Al-Aksa is ours and so is the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre. They [Jews] have no right to desecrate them with their
filthy feet."

And people still wonder where these terrorists get their motivation.

Not only has the Palestinian Authority failed to condemn these barbaric terror
attacks, they have now, incredibly, sought to condemn Israel for defending
ourselves . Abbas is surely giving new meaning to the term "chutzpah". Is this
really a sign of a leader who yearns for peace?

Only when the Palestinian leadership unequivocally renounces terrorism and roots
out and condemns all those who preach violence against Israel and hatred of the
Jewish people, can there be hope for real peace.

As the PA continues to insist that the world recognize a Palestinian state, one
must ask exactly what type of state it wants: one that teaches the virtues of
peace, or incites and glorifies terror?

In a groundbreaking speech on Islamic extremism this July, the British Prime
Minister David Cameron made clear, if you say "violence in London isn't
justified, but suicide bombs in Israel are a different matter" - then you too
are part of the problem."

To all those people who fail to condemn this Palestinian terror, or find ways to
excuse, equivocate or minimize it, I say the same - "then you too are part of
the problem."

Arsen Ostrovsky is an international human rights lawyer living in Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 9, 2015 Friday 8:53 PM GMT

Why is the world ignoring a wave of terror in Israel?;
Attacks like these do not occur in a vacuum. Such acts of pitiless slaughter are
the direct result of a pervasive Palestinian infrastructure

BYLINE: By Arsen Ostrovsky

LENGTH: 925 words


In the last week, my country, Israel, including our capital, the Holy City of
Jerusalem, have come under an unprecedented wave of Palestinian terror.

A week ago, Eitam and Na'ama Henkin were brutally executed by Palestinian
terrorists point-blank in their car. Their four children, Matan, 9, Nitzan, 7,
Neta, 4, and Itamar, 9 months old, who are now orphaned, were still in the back
seat and miraculously unharmed. Their lives are now irreparably altered.

Days later, two more Israelis were stabbed to death in Jerusalem. One of the men
killed was holding his two year old child at the time. More lives and families
torn apart.

Two weeks ago, Alexander Levlovitz, who was on his way home after Rosh Hashanah
(Jewish New Year) dinner, was murdered when Palestinian youths threw rocks at
his car and he lost control.

Over the past 48 hours in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and virtually all parts of Israel,
we have had over 150 terror attacks, including stabbings, shootings, stones
thrown and vehicular rammings.

Yet somehow the international community is silent in the face of this terror
onslaught against my people. Is our blood cheaper? Do Jewish lives not matter?

Let there be no mistakes, ifs, buts or maybes. We are being targeted for one
reason and one reason only: we are Jews.

I understand Europe has a number of pressing concerns, including Islamic State
and the wave of Syrian refugees, but what about us? Do we not count?

Many leaders, especially in Europe, are quick to condemn Israeli settlements,
yet sure take their time to utter a muddied, equivocal word of condemnation
against these terror attacks. Likewise human rights groups such as Human Rights
Watch and Amnesty.

Then I look at some of the media reporting on these attacks, such as that from
the BBC, and ask myself how on earth they can twist the facts and logic beyond a
semblance of recognition to actually place the blame on Israel.

"Only when the Palestinian leadership unequivocally renounces terrorism and
roots out and condemns all those who preach violence against Israel and hatred
of the Jewish people, can there be hope for real peace."

Even more exasperating are those international leaders who, after only noticing
the situation when Israel has the audacity to defend itself, then predictably
call for us to exercise "restraint". Excuse me? Restraint?

Imagine for a moment if people were being mown down with cars, guns or knives by
Islamic terrorists on the streets of central London, Paris, Washington or
Moscow. How would leaders of those countries react?

Where are all those so-called enlightened liberals, who continue to call for
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) against the Jewish State, but are silent
in the face of Palestinian terror against Jews?

Israelis, like all people, have the right to live in safety and security, free
from terror. And our government and security forces have an obligation to take
whatever action necessary to ensure this.

The tension across Israel, especially Jerusalem, is increasingly palpable.
Somehow this wave of terror feels different to last summer's rocket barrage from
Hamas. At least then we had the Iron Dome and time (albeit only 15 seconds) to
find shelter. But it is something much more intimate and personal when a
terrorist singles you out to kill you in cold-blood.

Many commentators and pundits are calling these "lone wolf" attacks. But how
many lone wolf attacks does it take to constitute a co-ordinated wave of terror?

The bottom line is that attacks like these do not occur in a vacuum. Such acts
of pitiless slaughter are the direct result of a pervasive Palestinian
infrastructure headed by PA President Mahmoud Abbas, indoctrinating hate,
inciting violence and instilling a worldview justifying such gruesome acts.

Barely a week ago, Abbas gave an incendiary speech before the plenary of the
United Nations General Assembly, all but giving a green light to this wave of
terror.

In a speech on Palestinian TV on September 16th, Abbas proudly stated "we bless
every drop of blood spilled for Jerusalem. With the help of Allah, every shaheed
(martyr) will be in heaven." He then added "Al-Aksa is ours and so is the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre. They [Jews] have no right to desecrate them with their
filthy feet."

And people still wonder where these terrorists get their motivation.

Not only has the Palestinian Authority failed to condemn these barbaric terror
attacks, they have now, incredibly, sought to condemn Israel for defending
ourselves . Abbas is surely giving new meaning to the term "chutzpah". Is this
really a sign of a leader who yearns for peace?

Only when the Palestinian leadership unequivocally renounces terrorism and roots
out and condemns all those who preach violence against Israel and hatred of the
Jewish people, can there be hope for real peace.

As the PA continues to insist that the world recognize a Palestinian state, one
must ask exactly what type of state it wants: one that teaches the virtues of
peace, or incites and glorifies terror?

In a groundbreaking speech on Islamic extremism this July, the British Prime
Minister David Cameron made clear, if you say "violence in London isn't
justified, but suicide bombs in Israel are a different matter" - then you too
are part of the problem."

To all those people who fail to condemn this Palestinian terror, or find ways to
excuse, equivocate or minimize it, I say the same - "then you too are part of
the problem."

Arsen Ostrovsky is an international human rights lawyer living in Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2015 Saturday

Egypt's Al-Azhar deplores Ankara terror attacks

LENGTH: 128 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 10 Oct: Al-Azhar [the highest Sunni establishment in the world] has
condemned the terror attacks that targeted the Turkish capital Ankara in which
30 people were killed and 120 others injured on Saturday [10 October].

In a press release, Al-Azhar offered condolences and wished the injured a speedy
recovery.

Al-Azhar also described those who committed such blasts as criminals. It also
called on the Islamic nation to unite to confront terrorism and the
international community to take a serious action regarding terrorism.

Earlier, Turkish Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu on Saturday said the twin
explosions that targeted a peace rally in Ankara.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1805gmt 10 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 1:50 PM GMT

WATCH: 30 dead + 126 wounded as terrorists attack peace rally in Turkey capital
Ankara

BYLINE: Paul Mosley

LENGTH: 562 words


TWO explosions ripped through the Turkish capital Ankara today killing 30 people
and injuring 126 outside the main train station.

AP

TERRIFIED: A man comforts a sobbing woman after explosions in Ankara
brightcove.createExperiences;

The Turkish Interior Ministry said the wounded were being treated in various
hospitals after the early morning explosions.

They went off just as people gathered for a rally organised by unions and civil
society groups in what government officials described as a terrorist attack.

A Reuters reporter saw at least 20 bodies covered by flags and banners,
including those of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party , with
bloodstains and body parts scattered on the road.

Getty

Authorities were investigating claims the attacks were carried out by a suicide
bomber, two government officials told Reuters.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with the
heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials, his
office said.

Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan called for "solidarity and determination as the
most meaningful response to terror" and said that those behind the attack aimed
to sow division between sections of society.

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am as
hundreds gathered for a planned peace march to protest against the conflict
between Turkish security forces and Kurdish militants in the southeast.

Getty

Getty

MADNESS: A policeman waves his pistol as a mob attack his patrol car

Violence between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party militants has flared
since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant camps in response to
what it said were rising attacks on the security forces. Hundreds have since
died.

Those involved in the peace march tended to the wounded lying on the ground, as
hundreds of stunned people wandered around the streets. Bodies lay in two
circles around 20 metres apart where the explosions had taken place.

The attacks come three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election in Turkey and at
a time of multiple security threats, not only in the restive southeast but also
from Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria and home-grown leftist
militants.

Getty

The NATO member has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a
"synchronized war on terror" in July, including air strikes against Islamic
State fighters in Syria and PKK bases in northern Iraq. It has also rounded up
hundreds of suspected militants at home.

The PKK - designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the US and European Union -
launched a separatist insurgency in 1984 during which more than 40,000 people
have been killed.

The state launched peace talks with the PKK's jailed leader in 2012 and the
latest in a series of ceasefires had been holding until the violence flared
again in July.

Getty

Getty

HORROR: A woman surveys the carnage outside the bus station in Ankara

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 12:09 PM GMT

30 people killed in explosions in a 'terrorist attack' in Turkey

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 450 words


AT least 30 people have been killed in two explosions in a suspected terrorist
attack in the Turkish capital of Ankara.

GETTY·AP·ANADOLU AGENCY

The explosions happened outside a station in Ankara

Reports that the blasts were caused by a suicide bomber are being investigated,
Turkish government officials have said.

The explosions, which have also injured 126 people, happened outside the main
train station during a peace march protesting against the conflict between the
state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

At least 20 bodies covered by bloodstained flags were seen on the road,
according to Reuters.

Related articles  WARNING: Britons in Turkey face new ISIS threat as terrorists
urge...  Turkey terror alert after explosion and gunfire at Istanbul...

Video footage shows scenes of panic as people lie on the ground covered in blood
amid protest banners and individuals tend to the wounded.

The suspected terrorist attack comes during a period of heightened security
concerns in Turkey and three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am as
hundreds of pro-Kurdish and leftist activists gathered for the rally.

Violence between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party militants has flared
since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant camps in response to
what it said were rising attacks on the security forces.

GETTY

Hundreds were wounded in the blast in the Turkish capital

The leader of the pro-Kurdish party HDP has blamed the state for the attack,
claiming that police "attacked" people carrying the injured away.

HDP leader Selahattin Demirtas said: "We are faced with a very big massacre, a
vicious, barbarous attack."

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

GETTY

Two explosions happened shortly after 10am, say witnesses

Council of Europe Secretary General Thorbjorn Jagland said in a statement: "This
is a ruthless and barbaric attack on peaceful demonstrators.

"Freedom of assembly and freedom of expression are fundamental pillars of
democracy."

NATO member Turkey has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a
"synchronized war on terror" in July, including air strikes against Islamic
State fighters in Syria and PKK bases in northern Iraq.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with the
heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials, his
office said.

REUTERS

Another 126 have been injured in the blasts Related articles 'Seven dead' in
Turkey bomb blast Turkish bombing kills 40 Could TURKEY be next? ISIS terror
threat to MILLIONS of holidaymakers

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 11:23 AM GMT

30 people killed in explosions in a 'terrorist attack' in Turkey

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 369 words


AT least 30 people have been killed in two explosions in a suspected terrorist
attack in the Turkish capital of Ankara.

GETTY

The explosions happened outside a station in Ankara

Reports that the blasts were caused by a suicide bomber are being investigated,
Turkish government officials have said.

The explosions, which have also injured 126 people, happened outside the main
train station during a peace march protesting against the conflict between the
state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

At least 20 bodies covered by bloodstained flags were seen on the road,
according to Reuters.

Related articles  WARNING: Britons in Turkey face new ISIS threat as terrorists
urge...  Turkey terror alert after explosion and gunfire at Istanbul...

Video footage shows scenes of panic as people lie on the ground covered in blood
amid protest banners and individuals tend to the wounded.

The suspected terrorist attack comes during a period of heightened security
concerns in Turkey and three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am as
hundreds gathered the peace march.

Violence between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party militants has flared
since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant camps in response to
what it said were rising attacks on the security forces.

GETTY

Hundreds were wounded in the blast in the Turkish capital

The leader of the pro-Kurdish party HDP has blamed the state for the attack,
claiming that police "attacked" people carrying the injured away.

NATO member Turkey has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a
"synchronized war on terror" in July, including air strikes against Islamic
State fighters in Syria and PKK bases in northern Iraq.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with the
heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials, his
office said.

GETTY

Two explosions happened shortly after 10am, say witnesses Related articles
'Seven dead' in Turkey bomb blast Turkish bombing kills 40 Could TURKEY be next?
ISIS terror threat to MILLIONS of holidaymakers

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 11:02 AM GMT

BREAKING: 30 people killed in explosions in a "terrorist attack" in Turkey

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 311 words


AT least 30 people have been killed in two explosions in a suspected terrorist
attack in the Turkish capital of Ankara.

GETTY

The explosions happened outside a station in Ankara

Reports that the blasts were caused by a suicide bomber are being investigated,
Turkish government officials have said.

At least 20 bodies covered by bloodstained flags were seen on the road,
according to Reuters.

The explosions, which have also injured 126 people, happened outside the main
train station ahead of a peace march protesting gainst the conflict between the
state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

Related articles  WARNING: Britons in Turkey face new ISIS threat as terrorists
urge...  Turkey terror alert after explosion and gunfire at Istanbul...

Video footage from a local news agency shows people tending to wounded
individuals while hundreds of people flee from the scene.

The suspected terrorist attack comes during a period of heightened security
concerns in Turkey and three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election.

GETTY

Two explosions in Turkey have killed at least 30 people

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am as
hundreds gathered for the Kurdistan Workers Party peace march.

Violence between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party militants has flared
since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant camps in response to
what it said were rising attacks on the security forces.

The NATO member has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a
"synchronized war on terror" in July, including air strikes against Islamic
State fighters in Syria and PKK bases in northern Iraq.

More to follow...

GETTY

Hundreds were wounded in the blast in the Turkish capital Related articles
'Seven dead' in Turkey bomb blast Turkish bombing kills 40 Could TURKEY be next?
ISIS terror threat to MILLIONS of holidaymakers

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 3:43 AM GMT

Hero who helped stop France train terror recovering after stab attack in US

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 835 words


THE hero soldier who helped to thwart a terror attack on a train is now
conscious and in "good spirits" after he was stabbed while defending a friend.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, is awake and "able to get out of bed" after the incident on
Wednesday night, which it was initially thought he would not survive.

CCTV footage has now emerged of the knife attack in which Mr Stone suffered
"significant" injuries during a street brawl while out with friends in
Sacramento, California.

The American hero tackled a heavily armed terrorist who opened fire on a Paris
bound train in August.

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

Police were continuing to sort through conflicting accounts of what happened and
have made no arrests, a spokesman said.

He added that police interviewed a 24-year-old woman who was also hurt in the
fight and was treated at a hospital for abrasions.

Officers said the woman was with Stone and three others when they became
involved in a brawl with another group in the Sacramento nightclub district.

"We're really hoping that additional witnesses or anyone involved comes
forward," Morse said. "Right now detectives are working around the clock to
clarify all that stuff. It would be way too premature to discuss what witnesses
saw."

The incident, which took place at 12.45am on Thursday morning, is not thought to
be linked to Mr Stone's heroic efforts.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Sacramento Police Deputy Chief Ken Bernard said: "This is not related to what
happened in France a couple of months ago.

"The assault appears to be related to a nightclub incident. It was a dispute
between two groups of people."

Officers sealed off a two-block area after the attack and interviewed a man and
a woman - but no arrests have been made.

Mr Bernard said his team were hunting two Asian men in their 20s who fled in a
dark Toyota Camry.

SKY NEWS

CCTV footage of the attack has emerged

SKY NEWS

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive

He was stabbed three times in the torso, according to a doctor treating him.

Chief medical officer Douglas Kirk of the UC David Medical Centre said Stone is
expected to make a full recovery.

Kirk added: "I suspect given his history of recent events he is quite a
fighter."

Police have said the stabbing took place on a street corner near some popular
bars in downtown Sacramento in the early hours after an argument escalated.

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Alek Skarlatos, who helped Mr Stone tackle the suspected gunman to the floor,
tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

It emerged that Mr Skarlatos, who attends Umpqua Community College, narrowly
missed a mass shooting on campus where a gunman killed nine people last week.

The 22-year-old should have been in class at the college in Roseburg, Oregon,
but was instead rehearsing for the US television show Dancing with the Stars.

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

REUTERS

Mr Stone was one of three Americans to tackle the suspected terrorist

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Stone was slashed by the attacker and later required surgery to reattach part
of his hand.

In an interview Mr Stone described how he choked the suspected terrorist
unconscious.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr Stone said: "We ran down and tackled him. I put him in a choke-hold and it
seemed like he was pulling more weapons left and right. He pulled out a handgun,
Alek took that, then a box cutter and he was jabbing it at me.

"We let go and all three of us started punching him while he was in the middle
of us.

Mr Stone added: "I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while
Alek was hitting him in the head with a pistol or rifle."

When asked what was going through his mind he simply said: "Survival. And for my
friends and everyone else on the train to make it."

REUTERS

The three Americans along with Briton Chris Norman were awarded for their
bravery Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND
AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train
terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El
Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 11:10 PM GMT

Ankara terror attack: President Erdogan calls for unity after explosions kill at
least 86 at Kurdish peace rally;
The devastation following an attack that also injured 200 people cut through any
words the TurkishPresidentcould muster

BYLINE: Orhan Coskun

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 1042 words


A scene of celebration amid calls for peaceturned to carnage as twin explosions
in the Turkish capital killed at least 86 pro-Kurdish activists and left-wing
marchers at a peace rally in Ankara.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called for unity among Turks in the face of the
terrorist attack, which injured a further 200 people.

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at the Ankara train station is taking aim
at our unity, brotherhood and future," he said. "The solidarity and
determination we are going to display in the face of this attack will be the
biggest and the most meaningful response."

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at the Ankara train station is taking aim
at our unity, brotherhood and future

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan

But the devastation cut through any words a politician could muster.
Bloodstains, body parts and corpses covered by flags, including those of the
pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), littered the area, as
peace marchers tended to the wounded, and hundreds of stunned people wandered
around the streets. Bodies lay in two circles, about 20 metres apart, where the
explosions had taken place.

A bomb explodes behind dancing protesters (AFP/Getty)

Witnesses said the two blasts, seconds apart, happened shortly after 10am, as
crowds gathered for the march protesting against the spiralling violence between
Turkish forces and Kurdish rebel forces in the country's south-east.

Video footage showed a line of young men and women holding hands and dancing,
and then flinching as a large explosion flashed behind them.

"I heard one big explosion first and tried to cover myself as the windows
broke," said a witness who identified himself as Serdar, 37. "There was shouting
and crying ... I could smell burnt flesh."

Read more

Protesters clash with police in Ankara after ambulance 'blocked'

More than 60 people were killed at the scene, and nearly two dozen more died in
hospital, police said, with the toll expected to rise. Reports stated that the
devices were packed with ball bearings.

"There was a massacre in the middle of Ankara," Lami Ozgen, the head of the
Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, told the AP news agency.

No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack in which 86 people
died(Getty)

Selahattin Demirtas, a co-leader of the HDP party, echoed his comments: "We are
witnessing a massacre here. A cruel and barbarian attack has been carried out.
The death toll is high." He believed his party's supporters had been the
specific targets.

Mr Demirtas drew a parallel with the bombing of an HDP rally in the
south-eastern city of Diyarbakir on the eve of the last election in June, and a
suicide bombing blamed on Isisin the town of Suruc near the Syrian border in
July, which killed 33 mostly young pro-Kurdish activists.

But those attacks paled beside the carnage in Ankara, the worst bombing in
Turkey's history.

Such was its ferocity that the government banned all photographs and any
associated images "that create fear and panic". Any Turkish media violating the
ban would face "permanent blackout", officials warned.

Read more

Turkey censors media coverage of bombing as Twitter 'blocked'

President Erdogan vows Turkey will stand in 'unity and solidarity'

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off at peace rally

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

Many people in Ankara reported being unable to access Twitter and other social
media websites after the blasts. It was not clear if the authorities had blocked
access to the websites, but Turkey often does impose such blackouts following
attacks.

The Prime Minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, said there were "strong signs" that suicide
bombers were used and suggested that Kurdish rebels or Isiscould be responsible.
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack. But Turkey has been on a
heightened state of alert since launching a "synchronised war on terror" in
July, including air strikes against IS fighters in Syria and bases in northern
Iraq belonging to the militant arm of the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK). It has
also rounded up hundreds of suspected Kurdish and Islamist fighters.

The US State Department, a key Turkish ally, called the bombing a heinous
terrorist attack on peaceful demonstrators. "In light of the ongoing violence in
Turkey and the region, it is particularly important at this time that all
Turkish citizens recommit to peace and stand together against terror," it said.

Germany's Chancellor, Angela Merkel, called the massacre "an attempt at
intimidation and an attempt to spread fear".

The attacks come three weeks before an election at which President Erdogan's AK
Party is trying to claw back its power. In the June elections, the party lost
the overall majority it had held since 2002, partly because of the electoral
success of the HDP. The AK Party claims the HDP is aligned with the rebels of
the PKK - a claim it rejects.

Within hours of the blasts, the PKK announced a temporary ceasefire before
November's elections, halting hostilities to allow the election to proceed
safely under "equal and fair" conditions.

The wounded are comforted in the aftermath of the blast (AFP)

There were signs on the streets hat Mr Erdogan's call for unity will go
unheeded. In the aftermath of the blasts, angry crowds formed to jeer and throw
bottles at a convoy of government ministers as they visited the scene. Lines of
riot police were then called to the area where the dead were being counted only
hours before.

Some activists have seen the hand of the state in all three of the attacks on
Kurdish interests, accusing Mr Erdogan and the AK Party of seeking to stir up
nationalist sentiment, a charge vehemently rejected.

"Suruc, Diyarbakir, and now Ankara, all works of murderer Erdogan. We will tear
down that palace," said a 21-year-old student named Tarik, who had been less
than 50 metres from one of Saturday's blasts, while pockets of activists chanted
"Murderer Erdogan" and "the murderer AKP will give account".

On the streets of Ankara, Mr Erdogan was shown the determination, if not the
solidarity, he had asked for only hours before.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 3:10 PM GMT

Ankara terror attack: Protesters clash with police after ambulances 'blocked'
following explosions;
Protesters claimed police prevented ambulances taking the wounded to hospital in
the wake of the bombing

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 534 words


Protesters have clashed with police in Ankara after officers allegedly blocked a
road being used by ambulances transporting victims of this morning's bombing.

Bulent Tekdemir, who was at the rally, told the BBC that police used tear gas
shortly after the explosions at 10am and "would not let ambulances through" in
the aftermath.

Footage showed lines of riot officers appearing to block a road near the blast
site, with ambulances parked in the background.

Ankara'daki patlama onrasi mitinge katilanlar polise tepki gös...

Ankara'daki patlama sonrasi yaralilara yardim edenleri engellemeye çalisan
polisler ile mitinge katilanlar arasinda olaylar çikti http://evrn.sl/plZw0

Posted by EVRENSEL GAZETESI - www.evrensel.net on Saturday, 10 October 2015

Crowds started angrily shouting at officers, throwing missiles and beating
themwith flag poles and sticks as others called for calm.

Read more

President Erdogan vows Turkey will stand in 'unity and solidarity'

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off at peace rally

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

Some men clashing with police appeared to have survived the bombing, with blood
clearly visible on their clothing.

Police, wearing helmets and sheltering behind riot shields, were pushed back
against a concrete barrier and an ambulance was able to pass through with its
sirens on.

The left-wing People's Democratic Party (HDP) claimed in a Twitter post that
police "attacked people trying to carry the injured away". The allegations could
not be independently verified.

The health ministry put the death toll at 86, with at least 186 people wounded,
by Saturday afternoon.

Bodies of victims are covered with flags and banners as police officers secure
the area after an explosion in Ankara, Turkey, Saturday, Oct. 10, 2015.

No group immediately claimed responsibility and authorities were investigating
the possibility that the twin explosions were suicide bombs.

They struck 50 metres apart as hundreds of people gathered near Ankara Central
Station for a rally denouncing the violence between Turkish security forces and
Kurdish militants.

Footage showed a line of men and women holding hands while doing a traditional
dance and singing as the explosions started, sending people screaming and
running for cover.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan strongly condemned the "heinous attack" and said
Turkey would not give in to efforts to cause division in society.

"No matter what its origin, aim or name, we are against any form of terrorist
act or terrorist organisation," he added.

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at Ankara Central Station is taking aim
at our unity, brotherhood and future."

Violence between Turkey and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militants has
flared in recent months, with the government launching operations in response to
what it said were rising attacks on security forces in the predominantly Kurdish
south-east.

The PKK called on its fighters and supporters to stop guerrilla activities in
Turkey ahead of elections on 1 November.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 3:10 PM GMT

Ankara terror attack: Turkey censors media coverage of bombings as Twitter and
Facebook 'blocked';
The government has issued a ban on broadcasting footage of the blast at a peace
rally

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 655 words


The Turkish government has censored news coverage of the terror attack in Ankara
as Twitter and other social media sites went down across the country.

State media watchdog the Turkish Supreme Board of Radio and Television (RTÜK)
imposed a ban on broadcasting images of the blast.

A statement by RTÜK released on its official website said that; "The Turkish
Prime Minister has imposed a temporary broadcast ban regarding the terror attack
conducted in Ankara this morning."

A government spokesperson said the order covered images showing the moment of
the blast, gruesome or bloody images or those "that create a feeling of panic".

Read more

Protesters clash with police in Ankara after ambulance 'blocked

President Erdogan vows Turkey will stand in 'unity and solidarity'

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off at peace rally

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

He warned media organisations they could face a "full blackout" if they did not
comply.

Meanwhile, Turks reported that Twitter had been blocked on some of the country's
most popular networks, including Turkcell and TTNET.

Some people also said they were unable to access Facebook in the wake of the
blasts.

Can't access @twitter on @TTNETAS and @Turkcell networks in #Turkey, telecoms
watchdog has no ban on the site but it still won't load.

- Emre Peker (@wsjemre) October 10, 2015

Social media blackouts have been imposed with increasing frequency in Turkey in
recent years, sparking protests and international criticism.

Index on Censorship classes the country as only "partly free" and the British
Government has been among those raising concerns about blocks on social media
and the treatment of journalists.

An award-winning Turkish journalist is being prosecuted for "insulting" the
President and two Britons were among

three

Vice News

journalists charged

with "aiding a terrorist organisation" in August, prompting an intervention by
the Foreign Secretary.

Anger was mounting at the government's response to the bombing, which could be
the deadliest terror attack in Turkey's history.

This is likely to be the worst terror attack in Turkey's history yet most TV
channels carry on as normal. A media ban is likely on its way.

- Can Okar (@canokar) October 10, 2015

Selami Altinok, the Interior Minister, refused to resign when questioned by
journalists after the bombing and insisted that there were no security flaws.

Hundreds of people were gathering for a peace rally, organised by trade unions
and supported by the pro-Kurdish People's Democratic Party (HDP), when two
explosions hit the crowd.

Footage showed a line of men and women holding hands while doing a traditional
dance and singing as the explosions started, sending people screaming and
running for cover.

They struck 50 metres apart as hundreds of people gathered near Ankara Central
Station for a rally denouncing the violence between Turkish security forces and
Kurdish militants.

In a statement, the HDP said it believed its supporters were the "main target of
the attacks" and criticised police for allegedly tear gassing survivors who were
trying to help the injured.

The health ministry put the death toll at 86, with at least 186 people wounded,
by Saturday afternoon.

No group immediately claimed responsibility and authorities were investigating
the possibility that the twin explosions were suicide bombs.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan strongly condemned the "heinous attack" and said
Turkey would not give in to efforts to cause division in society.

"No matter what its origin, aim or name, we are against any form of terrorist
act or terrorist organisation," he added.

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at Ankara Central Station is taking aim
at our unity, brotherhood and future."

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 12:10 PM GMT

Ankara explosions: President Erdogan vows Turkey will stand in 'unity and
solidarity' after terror attack;
At least 30 people were killed and more than 120 injured when explosions hit a
peace rally

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 484 words


The Turkish President has vowed that his country will stand in "unity and
solidarity" after a terror attack killed at least 30 people in Ankara.

No group has claimed responsibility for the bombing, which came as hundreds of
people gathered outside the capital's main railway station for a peace rally.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan strongly condemned the "heinous attack" and said Turkey
would not give in to efforts to sow division in society.

Calling for "solidarity and determination as the most meaningful response to
terror", the President added: "All units of the government are working to
investigate this incident.

Read more

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off at peace rally

Ankara bombs PKK rebels inside Turkey while Kurds in Kobani face Isis

Peace talks go on between Ankara and PKK

"I believe that the perpetrators will soon be revealed and brought to justice."

The Interior Ministry said the explosions killed at least 30 people and wounded
126 more, and that authorities were investigating claims a suicide bomber was
responsible.

Mr Erdogan compared Saturday morning's bombing to previous attacks by Kurdish
militants on Turkish police and security forces, although the group behind the
Ankara explosions was unclear.

Violence between Turkey and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has flared in
recent months, with Turkey launching operations in response to what it said were
rising attacks on security forces in the predominantly Kurdish south-east.
Hundreds have since died.

The country has been on high alert since starting its "synchronised war on
terror" in July, including air strikes against Isis in Syria and Kurdish
fighters with the People's Defence Force in northern Iraq.

It has also rounded up hundreds of suspected Kurdish and Islamist militants at
home.

A Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) fighter guards a post flying the group's flag in
the town of Makhmur, northern Iraq

An HDP rally in Diyarbakir was bombed on the eve of the last election in June
and a suicide blast blamed on Isis killed 33 mainly pro-Kurdish activists in the
town of Suruc, near the Syrian border in the same month.

The PKK called on its fighters and supporters to stop guerrilla activities in
Turkey and only fight if they were directly attacked in the wake of Saturday's
bombing.

Firat news agency reported the head of the PKK as saying the decision was taken
in response to calls from within and outside Turkey and that its fighters would
avoid acts which could prevent a "fair and just election" being held on 1
November.

The renewed conflict had raised questions over how a free and fair vote could be
held in violence-hit areas but the government had insisted it would go ahead.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 12:10 PM GMT

Ankara explosions: President Erdogan vows Turkey will stand in 'unity and
solidarity' after terror attack;
At least 30 people were killed and more than 120 injured when explosions hit a
peace rally

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 523 words


The Turkish President has vowed that his country will stand in "unity and
solidarity" after a terror attack killed at least 30 people in Ankara.

No group has claimed responsibility for the bombing, which came as hundreds of
people gathered outside the capital's main railway station for a peace rally.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan strongly condemned the "heinous attack" and said Turkey
would not give in to efforts to sow division in society.

Calling for "solidarity and determination as the most meaningful response to
terror", the President added: "All units of the government are working to
investigate this incident.

Read more

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off at peace rally

Ankara bombs PKK rebels inside Turkey while Kurds in Kobani face Isis

Peace talks go on between Ankara and PKK

"I believe that the perpetrators will soon be revealed and brought to justice."

The Interior Ministry said the explosions killed at least 30 people and wounded
126 more, and that authorities were investigating claims a suicide bomber was
responsible.

Mr Erdogan compared Saturday morning's bombing to previous attacks by Kurdish
militants on Turkish police and security forces, although the group behind the
Ankara explosions was unclear.

"No matter what its origin, aim or name, we are against any form of terrorist
act or terrorist organisation," hesaid.

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at AnkaraCentral Station is taking aim at
our unity, brotherhood and future."

Violence between Turkey and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has flared in
recent months, with Turkey launching operations in response to what it said were
rising attacks on security forces in the predominantly Kurdish south-east.
Hundreds have since died.

The country has been on high alert since starting its "synchronised war on
terror" in July, including air strikes against Isis in Syria and Kurdish
fighters with the People's Defence Force in northern Iraq.

It has also rounded up hundreds of suspected Kurdish and Islamist militants at
home.

A Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) fighter guards a post flying the group's flag in
the town of Makhmur, northern Iraq

An HDP rally in Diyarbakir was bombed on the eve of the last election in June
and a suicide blast blamed on Isis killed 33 mainly pro-Kurdish activists in the
town of Suruc, near the Syrian border in the same month.

The PKK called on its fighters and supporters to stop guerrilla activities in
Turkey and only fight if they were directly attacked in the wake of Saturday's
bombing.

Firat news agency reported the head of the PKK as saying the decision was taken
in response to calls from within and outside Turkey and that its fighters would
avoid acts which could prevent a "fair and just election" being held on 1
November.

The renewed conflict had raised questions over how a free and fair vote could be
held in violence-hit areas but the government had insisted it would go ahead.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 9:10 AM GMT

Ankara explosions: Video captures moment bomb goes off as singing protesters
call for peace;
At least people were killed in the suspected terror attack on Saturday morning

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 290 words


A video caught the moment a peace rally in Ankara was hit by a suspected terror
attack today.

A line of men and women were holding hands and singing as people milled in the
background waving banners with anti-violence and pro-Kurdish slogans, when a
huge blast rocked the crowd.

Flames and debris could be seen shooting into the air as people started
screaming and running from the area near the Turkish capital's main train
station.

VIDEO from #Ankara: As people chant "This square, the bloody square", explosion
hits pic.twitter.com/HhUv0gJCYo via @dokuz8haber

- Selin Girit (@selingirit) October 10, 2015

The footage cut as the start of a second explosion could be heard.

At least 30 people have died and more than 120 were injured, with graphic images
on social media showed bodies lying in the streets and the wounded sitting in
shock, covered in blood.

Read more

Deadly blasts strike Turkish capital

Ankara bombs PKK rebels inside Turkey while Kurds in Kobani face Isis

Peace talks go on between Ankara and PKK

The peace rally was organised by a trade union to denounceincreased violence
between Kurdish rebels and Turkish security forces.

The government has said they believe the blast was a terror attack and are
investigating claims that a suicide bomber was responsible.

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Prime Minister, called an emergency meeting with ministers
and security officials.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility and authorities are investigating
possible culprits.

In July, a suicide bombing blamed on the Islamic State group killed 33 people in
a town near Turkey's border with Syria.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 8:10 AM GMT

Turkey explosion: 'At least 20 dead' after suspected terrorist bomb attack in
capital Ankara

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 142 words


A least 20 people have died after a suspected terrorist bomb attack in the
centre of the Turkish capital Ankara.

The blast shook a road junction in the centre of the city on Saturday leading to
"many" casualties and some deaths, the Dogan news agency said.

It went off ahead of a planned "peace" march to protest against the conflict
between the state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

The state-run Anadolu Agency said there were reports that the blast was caused
by a suicide bomber.

Distressing images showed bodies lying on the ground and people involved in the
march tending to the wounded.

The cause of the blast was not immediately clear but a government official said
it was being investigated.

The explosion occurred at a time of growing security concerns in Turkey, and
three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election.

This page is being updated.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 8:10 AM GMT

Turkey explosions: 30 dead and hundreds injured after suspected terrorist attack
in capital Ankara

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 289 words


Thirtly people have reportedly been killed and more than 100 wounded after a
suspected terrorist bomb attack in the centre of Turkish capital Ankara.

Two explosions shook a road junction in the centre of the city on Saturday as
people were gathered for a "peace" march to protest against the conflict between
the state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

The Turkish government put the death toll at 30 and said 126 people were
injuried.

Images of the chaos showed dreadful scenes inculding bodies lying in the road,
many draped in flags and banners, and marchers desperately trying to help the
wounded. Witnesses said the ground was covered in bloodstains.

Tragedy: Bodies of victims are covered with flags and banners as police officers
secure the area after an explosion in Ankara

Authorities were investigating claims the attacks were carried out by a suicide
bomber. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with
the heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials.

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am
local time (7am GMT) as hundreds gathered for the planned rally.

Ankara: File photo of the city hit by two explosions, reporting leading to
deaths

Winstonza

Violence between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants has
flared since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant camps in
response to what it said were rising attacks on the security forces. Hundreds
have since died.

The attacks come three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election in Turkey and at
a time of multiple security threats, not only in the restive southeast but also
from Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria and home-grown militants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 8:10 AM GMT

Turkey bombings: 86 killed and hundreds injured after terrorist attack on
'peace' march in capital Ankara

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 462 words


At least 86 people have been killed and nearly 200 wounded after the suspected
double sucide bombing of a "peace" march in the Turkish capital Ankara.

Two explosions went off within seconds in the centre of the city on Saturday as
hundreds of people were gathered for the rally protesting against the conflict
between the state and Kurdish militants in southeast Turkey.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the deadliest attacks in
Turkey in years.

Prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said there were "strong signs" that the attacks -
which struck 50 metres apart and left 186 people wounded - were suicide
bombings.

Tragedy: Bodies of victims are covered with flags and banners as police officers
secure the area after an explosion in Ankara

Busloads of activists had travelled to Ankara from other cities to attend the
peace rally. Health minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu said 62 of the blast victims in
Ankara died at the scene, while 24 others died after being taken to the
hospital.

Images of the chaos showed dreadful scenes including bodies lying in the road,
many draped in flags and banners, and marchers desperately trying to help the
wounded.

Television footage from Turkey's Dogan news agency showed a line of protesters
on the street near the train station, chanting and performing a traditional
dance with their hands locked, when a large explosion went off behind them.

Witnesses said the two explosions happened seconds apart shortly after 10am
local time (7am GMT) as hundreds were gathered for the rally.

Ankara: File photo of the city hit by two explosions, reporting leading to
deaths

Winstonza

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned the attacks, which he said targeted the
country's unity and peace, and called for solidarity.

"The greatest and most meaningful response to this attack is the solidarity and
determination we will show against it," Erdogan said.

German chancellor Angela Merkel sent her condolences to Davutoglu, calling the
attacks "particularly cowardly acts that were aimed directly at civil rights,
democracy and peace".

"It is an attempt at intimidation and an attempt to spread fear," she said. "I
am convinced that the Turkish government and all of Turkish society stands
together at this time with a response of unity and democracy to this terror."

Violence between the Turkish state and the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)
militants has flared since July, when Turkey launched air strikes on militant
camps in response to what it said were rising attacks on the security forces.
Hundreds have since died.

The attacks come three weeks ahead of a parliamentary election in Turkey and at
a time of multiple security threats, not only in the restive southeast but also
from Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria and home-grown militants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 1:04 PM GMT

Turkey terror attack: The horrifying moment bomb explodes at peace march in
Ankara killing 30 and injuring 126;
Warning: The video in this article shows the moment a bomb explodes at the peace
rally killing at least 30 people and injuring over 120. Contains distressing
scenes

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


This is the moment that a bomb blast in Turkey killed 30 people and injured more
than 100 others as they gathered for a peace march.

Captured by a cameraman at the second that the bomb goes off, the explosion rips
through a crowd of flag-waving demonstrators in the Turkish capital, Ankara. The
demonstrators in the front of the crowd, who are linking hands, bow their heads
with the force of the blast from the fireball behind them.

There has been no claim of responsibility as yet for Saturday morning's attack,
but it may have been the work of the Islamic State. The demonstration was in
support of Turkey's Kurdish minority, who have been fighting fierce battles with
Isil militants in neighbouring Syria. Kurdish groups are also likely to point
the finger at the Turkey's Islamist government, which is accused of tacit
support for Isil and has also fought a long-running war with armed Kurdish
separatists.

Videos from the concourse in central Ankara showed more than a dozen bodies on
the bloodied ground, several of them draped in banners demanding an end to the
state's three decade-long battle with Kurdish militants.

Turkey's interior ministry said that 30 people had been killed another 126
injured.

The area was to have hosted an anti-government rally organised by leftist groups
later in the day, including the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).

It was the fourth such attack to rock Kurdish targets inside Turkey in a year,
underlining the depth of the challenge facing Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish
president, in restoring security to a country destabilised by war in
neighbouring Syria.

It follows suggestion on Friday from a senior Kurdish Workers Party (PKK)
official that a renewed ceasefire with the Turkish state may be on the cards.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with the
heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials on
Saturday, his office said.

Although the cause of Saturday's blast was not immediately clear unclear, local
media posited the involvement of a suicide bomber. The speculation evoked an
earlier attack on a meeting of mostly Kurdish activists in the border town of
Suruc in which 33 people were killed.

That attack inflamed tensions between Kurdish citizens and the Turkish
government. It also hastened the end of a three-year long ceasefire between the
state and the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).

Nationalist violence had torn at the nation's delicate social fabric in recent
months, threatening broad civil unrest just before early elections in November.

A PKK ceasefire could bolster the election prospects of the pro-Kurdish HDP,
which deprived the president's AKP of its single-party majority in a June
parliamentary election.

Many Kurds accused Turkish authorities of collaborating with Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant jihadists in Syria, allegations Ankara vehemently denies.
Turkey says over 140 members of the security forces have been killed in PKK
attacks since and have hit back with a relentless bombing campaign against the
group.

Turkish police fired into the air to disperse protesters from the scene,
prompting cried of "police murderers" from the crowd.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 1:04 PM GMT

Turkey terror attack: The horrifying moment bomb explodes at peace march in
Ankara killing 30 and injuring 126;
Warning: The video in this article shows the moment a bomb explodes at the peace
rally killing at least 30 people and injuring over 120. Contains distressing
scenes

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


This is the moment that a bomb blast in Turkey killed 30 people and injured more
than 100 others as they gathered for a peace march.

Captured by a cameraman at the second that the bomb goes off, the explosion rips
through a crowd of flag-waving demonstrators in the Turkish capital, Ankara. The
demonstrators in the front of the crowd, who are linking hands, bow their heads
with the force of the blast from the fireball behind them.

There has been no claim of responsibility as yet for Saturday morning's attack,
but it may have been the work of the Islamic State. The demonstration was in
support of Turkey's Kurdish minority, who have been fighting fierce battles with
Isil militants in neighbouring Syria. Kurdish groups are also likely to point
the finger at the Turkey's Islamist government, which is accused of tacit
support for Isil and has also fought a long-running war with armed Kurdish
separatists.

Videos from the concourse in central Ankara showed more than a dozen bodies on
the bloodied ground, several of them draped in banners demanding an end to the
state's three decade-long battle with Kurdish militants.

Turkey's interior ministry said that 30 people had been killed another 126
injured.

The area was to have hosted an anti-government rally organised by leftist groups
later in the day, including the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).

It was the fourth such attack to rock Kurdish targets inside Turkey in a year,
underlining the depth of the challenge facing Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish
president, in restoring security to a country destabilised by war in
neighbouring Syria.

It follows suggestion on Friday from a senior Kurdish Workers Party (PKK)
official that a renewed ceasefire with the Turkish state may be on the cards.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was due to hold an emergency meeting with the
heads of the police and intelligence agencies and other senior officials on
Saturday, his office said.

Although the cause of Saturday's blast was not immediately clear unclear, local
media posited the involvement of a suicide bomber. The speculation evoked an
earlier attack on a meeting of mostly Kurdish activists in the border town of
Suruc in which 33 people were killed.

That attack inflamed tensions between Kurdish citizens and the Turkish
government. It also hastened the end of a three-year long ceasefire between the
state and the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).

Nationalist violence had torn at the nation's delicate social fabric in recent
months, threatening broad civil unrest just before early elections in November.

A PKK ceasefire could bolster the election prospects of the pro-Kurdish HDP,
which deprived the president's AKP of its single-party majority in a June
parliamentary election.

Many Kurds accused Turkish authorities of collaborating with Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant jihadists in Syria, allegations Ankara vehemently denies.
Turkey says over 140 members of the security forces have been killed in PKK
attacks since and have hit back with a relentless bombing campaign against the
group.

Turkish police fired into the air to disperse protesters from the scene,
prompting cried of "police murderers" from the crowd.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 5:46 PM GMT

'Terrorists' attack Ankara peace rally, 86 killed

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 683 words


At least 86 people have been killed after twin explosions tore through the
opening stages of a peace rally in the Turkish capital Ankara today.

Government officials said that the blasts were a terrorist attack and were
investigating reports they were carried out by suicide bombers. The interior
ministry confirmed that 86 were killed, after many succumbed to injuries in
hospital, and 186 were wounded.

Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu has declared three days of national mourning over the
attack, which has been described as "heinous" by the U.S State Department.

The state-run Andolu Agency said there were reports that the blasts were caused
by a suicide bomber, but the source of the information was unknown.

Lami Ozgen, head of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, said:
"There was a massacre in the middle of Ankara. Two bombs exploded at very short
intervals."

It happened at 10am local time (7am GMT) near the main train station, ahead of a
march in Ankara to protest against the conflict between state and Kurdish
militants in southeastern Turkey.

The march was organised by Kurdish separatist group the PKK and was due to start
at noon, local time (9am GMT).

Selahattin Demirtas, leader of Turkey's pro-Kurdish party, whose members
attended the rally, said: "The toll is severe. There are dozens of dead and
hundreds of injuries. Some of our friends are in serious condition."

Dogan news agency video footage showed those involved in the march tending to
wounded individuals, while many more wandered the streets in fear and confusion.

Turkey is three weeks from a parliamentary election and tensions have been
rising on a number of fronts.

Federica Mogherini, EU foreign policy chief urged to "stand united" against
terrorists and all threats against the country.

A joint statement with Joannes Hahn, European Union enlargement commissioner,
said: "Turkish people and all political forces must stand united against
terrorists and against all those who try to destabilise a country that is facing
many threats.

"We stand by all people in Turkey who work together to counter violence and
terrorism.

"Our partnership and engagement with the Turkish authorities and Turkish society
is stronger than ever, at all levels."

Jens Stoltenberg, Nato Secretary General, said: "I strongly condemn the
terrorist attack in the centre of Ankara that killed and injured dozens of
people.

"There can be no justification for such a horrendous attack on people marching
for peace."

The PKK is designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the
European Union, the PKK launched a separatist insurgency in 1984 in which more
than 40,000 people have been killed.

Peace talks with the group's jailed leader began in 2012 and there have been a
number of failed ceasefires since then.

The PKK today declared a state of inactivity after months of attacks and said
that there would be no further action ahead of the November polls.

A statement from the PKK's umbrella group, Kurdistan Communities Union, said:
"Heeding calls from Turkey and abroad, our movement has decided on a state of
inactivity by our guerillas, unless our people and our guerilla forces are
attacked."

A pro-Kurdish HDP party rally in Diyarbakir was bombed in June, ahead of general
elections.

Mr Demirtas blamed a "mafia state" for the twin explosions today.

He said: "We are faced with a huge massacre. A vicious, barbaric attack has been
committed.

"We are faced with a murderous state which has turned into a mafia and a state
mentality which acts like a serial killer."

He continued: "Is it possible that a state with such a strong intelligence
network did not have prior information on the attack?

"It's a continuation of the type of attacks in Diyarbakir and Suruc. Is it
possible that it [the state] didn't have any information in Suruc, Diyarbakir?

"Such a tyrannical government will never be able to make its mark on history. We
will not allow it."

In July, a suicide bombing blamed on the Islamic State killed 33 people in a
town near the border with Syria.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attack today.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 11:45 AM GMT

'Terrorists' attack Ankara peace rally, 30 killed

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 351 words


At least 30 people have been killed after twin explosions tore through the
opening stages of a peace rally in the Turkish capital Ankara today.

Government officials said that the blasts were a terrorist attack and were
investigating reports they were carried out by suicide bombers. The interior
ministry confirmed that 30 were killed and 126 wounded.

Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu will hold an emergency meeting with security chiefs
today.

The state-run Andolu Agency said there were reports that the blasts were caused
by a suicide bomber, but the source of the information was unknown.

Lami Ozgen, head of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, said:
"There was a massacre in the middle of Ankara. Two bombs exploded at very short
intervals."

It happened at 10am local time (7am GMT) near the main train station, ahead of a
march in Ankara to protest against the conflict between state and Kurdish
militants in southeastern Turkey.

The march was organised by Kurdish separatist group the PKK and was due to start
at noon, local time (9am GMT).

Selahattin Demirtas, leader of Turkey's pro-Kurdish party, whose members
attended the rally, said: "The toll is severe. There are dozens of dead and
hundreds of injuries. Some of our friends are in serious condition."

Dogan news agency video footage showed those involved in the march tending to
wounded individuals, while many more wandered the streets in fear and confusion.

Turkey is three weeks from a parliamentary election and tensions have been
rising on a number of fronts.

The PKK is designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the
European Union, the PKK launched a separatist insurgency in 1984 in which more
than 40,000 people have been killed.

Peace talks with the group's jailed leader began in 2012 and fthere have been a
number of failed ceasefires since then.

A pro-Kurdish HDP party rally in Diyarbakir was bombed in June, ahead of general
elections.

In July, a suicide bombing blamed on the Islamic State killed 33 people in a
town near the border with Syria.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attack today.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 10, 2015 Saturday 10:28 AM GMT

'Terrorists' attack Ankara peace rally, 30 killed

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 317 words


At least 30 people have been killed after twin explosions tore through the
opening stages of a peace rally in the Turkish capital Ankara today.

Government officials said that the blasts were a terrorist attack and were
investigating reports they were carried out by suicide bombers. The interior
ministry confirmed that 30 were killed and 126 wounded.

Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu will hold an emergency meeting with security chiefs
today.

The state-run Andolu Agency said there were reports that the blasts were caused
by a suicide bomber, but the source of the information was unknown.

Lami Ozgen, head of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, said:
"There was a massacre in the middle of Ankara. Two bombs exploded at very short
intervals."

It happened at 10am local time (7am GMT) near the main train station, ahead of a
march in Ankara to protest against the conflict between state and Kurdish
militants in southeastern Turkey.

The march was organised by Kurdish separatist group the PKK and was due to start
at noon, local time (9am GMT).

Dogan news agency video footage showed those involved in the march tending to
wounded individuals, while many more wandered the streets in fear and confusion.

Turkey is three weeks from a parliamentary election and tensions have been
rising on a number of fronts.

The PKK is designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the
European Union, the PKK launched a separatist insurgency in 1984 in which more
than 40,000 people have been killed.

Peace talks with the group's jailed leader began in 2012 and fthere have been a
number of failed ceasefires since then.

A pro-Kurdish HDP party rally in Diyarbakir was bombed in June, ahead of general
elections.

In July, a suicide bombing blamed on the Islamic State killed 33 people in a
town near the border with Syria.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attack today.

More to follow.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2015 Sunday

Iran Speaker deplores Turkey terror attack

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran: Iran's Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani decried as "dirty terrorist acts"
the Saturday [10 October] blasts in Ankara that killed at least 95 people,
marking the deadliest terror attack in Turkey's history.

"The dirty terrorist acts in Turkey that took the lives of tens of Muslims are
another sign of the crisis in the region," Larijani said in a parliament session
on Sunday.

He also expressed the hope that the tragic incident would make "(our) friends in
Turkey" pay serious attention to the activities of terrorists across the region.

At least 95 people were killed and around 250 wounded after two explosions hit
outside the main train station in Ankara where protesters were gathering for a
peace march.

Turkish government officials said the explosions were a terrorist attack carried
out by suicide bombers but no group immediately claimed responsibility.

Turkish prime minister declared three days of national mourning after the
incident.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1120 gmt 11 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 11, 2015 Sunday 9:10 PM GMT

Ankara bombing: Investigation into Turkey's deadliest terrorist attack to be
'completely focused' on Isis;
Many mourners lay the blame on the government's door, voicing their anger at the
state for failing to prevent the attack

BYLINE: Zia Weise

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 1208 words


The West's key frontline ally in the battle against Isis has been plunged into a
state of turmoil, engulfed by violence and recrimination after the most deadly
terrorist attack in Turkey's history.

Amid fears that the war in Syria and Iraq has crossed the border on to Turkish
soil, the death toll from the blasts at a Kurdish peace march increased from 95
to 128, according to the pro-Kurdish HD party. Security sources said the
investigation into the bombings would be "completely focused" on Isis. The
attacks bore striking similarities to a suicide attack in Suruc in July this
year that killed 33 pro-Kurdish activists.

I arrived to see people covered in blood, people whose hands and legs were blown
off. There were pieces of human flesh everywhere

Yildiz Kilinc, a member of the pro-Kurdish HDP

Dozens of suspects have beenarrested in operations targeting Isis. There were
claims that the deliberate bombing of the peace march and the type of explosive
used had led investigators to an Isis faction in Turkey, known as the Adiyaman
Ones, referring to Adiyaman province in south-central Turkey.

Ankara has demanded increased support from Nato in the battle against Isis. The
country now faces an increased domestic threat. "All Nato allies stand united in
the fight against the scourge of terrorism," said the Nato Secretary General
Jens Stoltenberg.

Riots broke out in Ankara as thousands accused the President, Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, of failing to protect the peace march before two suicide bombers
struck.

"How was there no police to protect us?" Yildiz Kilinc, a member of the HDP,
which believes it was the main target of Saturday's attack, told

The Independent

.

A woman reacts near a row of police officers blocking the way to the site of
yesterday's twin bombings during a rally to remember the victims

"I only survived because I was 10 minutes late. I would have been right there,"
she said. "I arrived to see people covered in blood, people whose hands and legs
were blown off. There were pieces of human flesh everywhere."

Kilinc was one of thousands who attended the funeral of 25-year-old Korkmaz
Tedik in Ankara's suburb of Batikent, along with HDP leaders Selahattin Demirtas
and Figen Yuksekdag and several MPs from the main opposition party CHP.

In between speeches to honour the victims, the crowd chanted slogans denouncing
the ruling AKP and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Read more

Ankara explosions: Turkish police fire tear gas at mourners

At the service, the father of Korkmaz Tedik said: "They are drinking blood but
cannot get enough. They are trying to start a war in this country, to pit people
against each other and prevent minorities from coming together. But we will come
together."

Yet on the first of three days of mourning, there was no sign that the country's
political parties would stand together in unity. Soon after the bombings, the
party leaders traded criticisms, laying bare the increasingly polarised state of
Turkish politics.

A man flashes the victory sign during a rally on Sihhiye Square

Addressing mourners in the capital, the HDP's Demirtas accused the government of
failing to protect the protesters.

"The state which gets information about the bird that flies and every flap of
its wing was not able to prevent a massacre in the heart of Ankara," he said.

The unions which organised Saturday's rally have called for a nationwide strike
on Monday and Tuesday in protest.

Read more

Police say Ankara attacker could be missing brother of Suruc bomber

Ankara explosions: Mourners chant anti-government slogans

Turkish President calls for unity after at least 86 die in Ankara

Turkey censors media coverage of bombing as Twitter 'blocked'

Protesters clash with police in Ankara after ambulance 'blocked'

Those that gathered in Sihhiye Square near the site of Saturday's explosions
also vented their anger at the government, chanting "murderer Erdogan" and
"murderer police". Skirmishes broke out when riot police barred mourners from
laying flowers at the scene.

"We just wanted to pay our respects but police officers hit us," said
29-year-old Gulumcan Kayi. A day earlier, she stood some 300 metres away when
explosions tore through the crowd.

"I saw my high school classmate with bomb pieces in her leg. Her friend was
lying there, bleeding badly. I think he died. We tried to help him but the
police would not let us through to him."

A protester leaves the carnations on the ground by a police barricade blocking
the way to the site of Saturday's explosions

She said several of her fellow protesters were still in shock. On the metro to
the funeral in Batikent, a woman collapsed in tears, screaming: "They were there
for peace! Who killed them? Who murdered them?"

Government officials vowed that the perpetrators would be brought to justice and
insisted that the elections scheduled for November 1 would be held as planned
despite heightened tensions amid a resurgent conflict with the banned Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK) and increased threats of a spillover from Syria's war.

In Syria, a rebel group said it stood with the Turkish government and people
against "terrorism". Jaysh al-Islam, or the Army of Islam, issued a statement
expressing "complete solidarity with the Turkish government".

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said on Saturday that Turkish police had arrested
several potential suicide bombers in the days leading up to the attack, adding
that either Isis, Kurdish militants or leftist terror groups could have attacked
the Ankara rally.

"This assault is not on just one group, on our citizens participating in the
rally or a particular political organisation. This attack is on the unity of our
country," he added.

The Turkish Haberturk newspaper quoted police sources as saying that one of the
Ankara bombers was suspected to be the brother of the Suruc bomber, reporting
that the explosives used and the target resembled tactics used by an
Isis-affiliated group with roots in the southern province Adiyaman.

The explosions hit the Ankara rally as the marchers were preparing to call for
an end to the fighting between Turkish security forces and the PKK, which is
listed as a terrorist group by Turkey, the US and the EU. As many as 40,000 have
been killed in the three-decade conflict, with hundreds dead since a two-year
ceasefire collapsed in July.

Turkey resumed its air strikes against the PKK even though the group's leaders
had ordered its militants to stop its attacks ahead of the elections. Two
soldiers were subsequently killed in clashes with militants in the country's
east.

Turkey also arrested 36 suspected Isis members, pro-government media reported.
The government has denied accusations of security failures in Saturday's attack,
which is the third bombing to hit civilians after Suruc and the June attack on a
HDP rally in Diyarbakir.

While its leaders debate who is to blame, Ankara struggles with the aftermath of
the bombings. Friends and relatives of the wounded still gather in front of
hospitals for news; with 65 people in intensive care, many fear the death toll
will rise further.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 11, 2015 Sunday 10:48 PM GMT

First picture of victim of terror attack at Turkish peace march which left 120
dead;
Turkish security forces believe Islamic State jihadis could have been
responsible for the blast

BYLINE: By Ben Rossington

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 333 words


Student Dijle Deli was one of the 120 people by the suicide bombings in the
Turkish capital of Ankara.

Just hours before her death, Dijle took a selfie of herself and friends as they
headed to the rally on a bus.

She posted the snap online and wrote: "We are going to Ankara to bring peace."

The Queen also also said she was "shocked and saddened" by the suicide bombings
thought to have left more than 120 dead in Turkey.

Turkey began three days of mourning yesterday after two blasts at a peace rally
in the capital, Ankara, on Saturday.

Islamic State terrorists were being blamed yesterday for the deadliest ever
attack on Turkish soil.

In a letter to Turkey's president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Queen offered her
"heartfelt sympathy" to the Turkish people.

Horrifying moment that at the train station near Ankara, Turkey, as blast claims
multiple victims

Her Majesty wrote: "I offer my sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to the
Turkish people at this time.

"I, along with people across the world, have been shocked and saddened by
Saturday's attack in Ankara and my thoughts are with all those affected by these
terrible events."

The attack is believed to have killed 128 and left another 250 people injured.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said two suicide bombers had carried out the
attack, which comes three weeks before a re-run of June's parliamentary
elections.

And Turkish security sources said their investigations were focused on IS
jihadis.

One of the sources said the attack had striking similarities to a suicide
bombing in July in the town of Suruc near the Syrian border.

The source said: "This attack was in the style of Suruc and all the signs are
that it was a copy of that attack ... the signs point to ISIL (Islamic State)."

Another added: "All signs indicate that the attack may have been carried out by
ISIL. We are completely focused on ISIL."

No group has yet claimed responsibility.

Horrifying moment that at the train station near Ankara, Turkey, as blast claims
multiple victims

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 11, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EXPLOSION KILLS 97 AT PEACE RALLY;
Turkish president condemns terrorist attacks

BYLINE: NICOLA BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


AT least 97 people were killed and 400 injured when twin explosions hit a peace
rally in Turkey.

Hundreds of pro-Kurdish and leftist activists had gathered outside Ankara's main
train station yesterday.

They were apparently targeted in what the government described as a terrorist
attack weeks ahead of an election.

Outraged Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "I strongly condemn this
heinous attack on our unity and our country's peace."

Bodies were covered by flags and banners, including those of the pro-Kurdish
opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), with bloodstains and body parts
scattered on the road.

Witnesses said the two blasts happened seconds apart shortly after 10am.

Bodies lay in two circles around 20 metres from each other where the explosions
appeared to have taken place.

Crowds had gathered for a planned march to protest a conflict between Turkish
security forces and Kurdish militants in the southeast.

There were no claims of responsibility for the attacks.

But prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu told the nation in a televised address that
two suicide bombers were believed to be behind the atrocities.

The premier called for three days of national mourning.

He also suspended his election campaigning to hold an emergency meeting with
police and intelligence agencies.

Footage screened by CNN Turk showed a line of young men and women holding hands
and dancing, and then flinching as a large explosion flashed behind them.

HDP leader Selahattin Demirtas said: "We are faced with a very big massacre, a
vicious, barbarous attack." He drew a parallel with the bombing of a HDP rally
in the city of Diyarbakir on the eve of the last election in June.

He also pointed to a suicide bombing blamed on Islamic State in Suruc near the
Syrian border in July, which killed 33 pro-Kurdish activists.

NATO member Turkey has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a
"synchronized war on terror" in July. It includes air strikes against Islamic
State fighters in Syria and Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) bases in northern
Iraq. Hundreds have been killed.

Turkey has also rounded up hundreds of suspected Kurdish and Islamist militants
at home.

The renewed conflict in the southeast has raised questions over how Turkey can
hold a free and fair election in violence-hit areas. But the government insists
the vote will go ahead.

The attacks came as hopes mounted that the PKK was about to announce a
unilateral ceasefire.

@IRISHSUNONLINE

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outraged ... ErdoganVictim . . a man cries at blast site

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 11, 2015
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Bombs kill 86 in worst terrorist outrage to hit modern Turkey;
Attacks during Kurdish peace rally in run-up to election believed to be work of
local Isil recruits

BYLINE: Richard Spencer; Murat Dal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 831 words


A DOUBLE attack believed to be the work of suicide bombers on a march in the
Turkish capital, Ankara, yesterday killed 86 people and injured more than 180 in
the worst terrorist outrage in the country's modern www.history.No one has yet
admitted carrying out the attack, which was captured in dramatic video footage
taken by a cameraman filming the start of the demonstration. Young activists
doing a traditional Turkish dance are seen flinching and ducking as a sheet of
orange flame punctures the sky behind them.

They had been setting off on a protest backed by the pro-Kurdish HDP political
party and Leftist secular groups calling for the government to make peace with
the PKK Kurdish guerrilla group.

"We started dancing the 'halay' dance as we were cheerful and determined to
promote peace," one of the men in the video, Goksel Ilgin, later told The Sunday
Telegraph. "We heard a sudden blast about 15 metres behind us.

"We didn't understand what was happening at first. Then 15 seconds later there
was a second blast. We saw flags and pieces of bodies flying into the air."

He added: "After the explosion I was overcome by shock. I fell on my knees, and
couldn't believe what I was seeing. People were injured and running around
unconsciously. It took ten to fifteen minutes for someone to slap me to get over
the shock. She told me to walk fast and scream. I did and started to feel
better.

"I will never forget the smell of burned human flesh. Even after I left the
scene, I couldn't help feeling it."

Despite the lack of claim, the most likely culprits were widely considered to be
local recruits of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). The PKK's
Syrian offshoot, the YPG, is fighting a bitter war against Isil under the cover
of US-led coalition jets, and the jihadists conducted a similar attack that
killed 33 people in the town of Suruc on the Turkey-Syria border in July.

Many Kurds believe the Islamist AKP government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
has encouraged Isil as part of his own political ambitions for Syria, as well as
out of hostility to the PKK / YPG.

/ REUTERS The HDP's charismatic leader, Selahattin Demirtas, went so far as to
suggest /AFP AP the government was implicated in the bombing.

"We are faced with a huge massacre. A barbaric attack has been committed," he
said. "We are faced with a murderous state which has turned into a mafia and a
state mentality which acts like a serial killer."

Protesters at the scene shouted "Murderer Erdogan" and "the murderer AKP will
give account" as the injured were being taken away.

The rally, under the slogan "Work, Peace and Democracy", was organised by a
number of trade unions as well as the HDP, near Ankara railway station.

Posters bearing the motto were seen plastering the bodies of the dead strewn
across the square. Some of the bodies were covered quickly with the distinctive
yellow flag of the HDP and other banners. The health minister, Mehmet
Muezzinoglu, said 62 people had died at the scene and 24 in hospital from their
injuries. He added that 28 of the 186 injured were in a serious condition. One
witness, Ahmet Onen, said: "We heard one huge blast and then one smaller
explosion and then there was a great movement and panic. Then we saw corpses
around the station."

In floods of tears, he added: "A demonstration that was to promote peace has
turned into a massacre - I don't understand this."

Mr Ilgin said: "People were running around hardly conscious in the huge panic.
As the initial shock subsided, we rushed to help people lying on the ground."

The Turkish government said not only Isil but pro-Kurdish or leftist groups
could have carried out the attack, although it did not speculate on what the
motives might be.

"Like other terror attacks, the one at the Ankara train station targets our
unity, togetherness, brotherhood and future," Mr Erdogan said. He cancelled a
planned visit to Turkmenistan.

The attacks show the way in which Turkey's involvement in the war in
neighbouring Syria, where it supports the overthrow of the Assad regime and has
allowed opposition groups to ferry weapons across the border, has had
repercussions at home.

Some of that is due to the revived conflict with the PKK, which had observed a
three-year ceasefire with the government.

The attack happened as the PKK said it was about to begin another, unilateral
ceasefire. A statement issued after the explosions confirmed that the ceasefire
would be implemented. It said it depended on there being no attacks on the PKK
in the interim, and would hold until elections planned for next month.

The elections are crucial for the future of the AKP, a moderate Islamist party,
and President Erdogan. If the HDP wins 10 per cent of the vote, it will repeat
its feat in June elections that led to a stalemate by winning seats in
parliament and most probably preventing the AKP holding a majority.

It will almost certainly stop the AKP pushing through constitutional changes
that would hand more powers to Mr Erdogan.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Injured victims after the explosionsGoksel Ilgin, circled top, with
fellow activists at the moment of the blast. Above: bodies covered with flags

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2015 Monday

Israel's outgoing ambassador urges UN to denounce terror attacks

LENGTH: 324 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 11 October

[Report by Danielle Ziri: "Prosor's last appeal to UN: It's time to denounce
terrorism against Israel"]

On his last day as ambassador to the UN, Ron Prosor on Friday urged the Security
Council and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to denounce the recent attacks against
Israeli citizens "in a clear and unequivocal manner." The international body
should "take immediate action against the incitement, violence and terror
currently being waged against the people of Israel," he said.

On Tuesday, as the wave of Arab violence started to spread in Israel, Ban
expressed concern and condemned the killings of Palestinians without mention of
Israeli victims. Prosor on Friday pointed out that in 72 hours alone,
Palestinians had carried out 11 terrorist attacks across Israel. "Israelis are
being attacked and murdered in the streets, in their vehicles, and even in their
homes, and the UN stands by in silence," he said, "As my final act as Israel's
ambassador, I wish to stress the urgency of this situation that requires
immediate action."

The escalation in terrorist attacks and killings is "a result of the ongoing
instigation to violence by the Palestinian leadership," Prosor said.
"Palestinian officials continue to use inflammatory rhetoric and dangerous
incitement, intensifying this wave of terror against Israeli citizens, and it
must stop."

Prosor ended his four-year term as Israel's representative at the United
Nations; he will be replaced by former science, technology and space minister
Danny Danon. Danon's appointment was announced in August and unleashed much
criticism. The Zionist Union called the move "another nail in the coffin that
Bibi (Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu) is putting in Israel's foreign
relations." Danon begins his term as ambassador on Monday.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 11 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2015 Monday

Sudan strongly condemns terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report by state-owned Sudanese news agency Suna website

Khartoum, 12 October - The Foreign Ministry has strongly condemned the terrorist
attack carried out, last Saturday [10 October], on two train stations in Ankara,
Turkey killing and injuring hundreds of citizens .

The ministry in statement issued, Monday [12 October], expressed its deep sorrow
and regret over the criminal attack which targeted the innocent citizens, peace
and stability in Turkey .

The ministry paid condolence to the families of the victims and the Turkish
government, affirming Sudan's people solidarity and support the sisterly Turkey
.

Source: Suna news agency website, Khartoum, in Arabic 12 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 1:41 AM GMT

Russia claims to have foiled terror attack plot in Moscow

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 132 words


Russia's counter-terrorism agency says it has raided a Moscow apartment and
arrested a group of people who were preparing to carry out an attack in the
capital.

The statement from the National Anti-Terrorism Committee said home made
explosives were found in the apartment. No details were given about the number
or identify of the suspects.

Russian news agencies, citing law enforcement sources, said more than 100
residents of the apartment building were evacuated during Sunday's raid and
supplies of natural gas were cut off for the duration.

Russia's airstrikes in Syria have been met by warnings that they encourage
Islamic extremists to turn their sights on Russia and make it easier for them to
recruit Russian Muslims.

Russia says 2,400 of its citizens have joined the Islamic State group.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terrorist's brother suspected over Ankara attack;
Police believe sibling of July bomber may have carried out peace rally atrocity
that killed 97

BYLINE: Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 712 words


SPECULATION grew last night that one of the suicide bombers responsible for
Turkey's worst terror attack in modern times could be the missing brother of a
terrorist who committed a similar attack in July.

Yunus Emre Alagoz, whose younger brother Abdurrahman killed 33 people in a bomb
massacre in July, was named by Turkish police in local media. Officers told
Haberturk newspaper they were investigating the possibility of his involvement.

His whereabouts have been unknown since July, when his brother carried out a
suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish activists in the town of Suruc on
Turkey's Syrian border. The activists were planning to cross into the northern
Syrian town of Kobane to help rebuild it after Islamic State of Iraq and the
Levant (Isil) attacks.

The younger Alagoz brother, who is himself of Kurdish origin, is believed to
have acted on behalf of Isil, having spent time among their ranks in Syria.

Turkish security sources told the Reuters news agency yesterday that initial
investigations indicated that Isil was responsible for Saturday's attack, which
targeted a peace rally attended by activists, labour unions and supporters of
the Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).

Two bombs exploded, killing 97 people and injuring nearly 250, according to
official figures. Thousands had gathered at the square in central Ankara for a
rally against the violence that has broken out between the Turkish state and
Kurdish separatists.

The attack was carried out by two attackers using TNT explosives, with metal
balls added to make projectiles, security officials in Ankara told the state-run
news agency, Anadolu.

The source said the attack was similar to that in Suruc and the signs point-ed
to Isil. "This attack was in the style of Suruc and all the signs are that it
was a copy of that attack ... the signs point to Isil," one official said
yesterday.

The HDP said the death toll could rise as high as 128.

The attack in July was one of Isil's most significant on Turkish soil and led to
Ankara allowing the US to use its Incirlik airbase to attack the extremist
group, as well as joining the US coalition-led air strikes against Isil.

Turkey began three days of national mourning yesterday, with flags flying at
half-mast across the country. The attack has come during a politically crucial
time for Turkey, with the second general election in less than six months taking
place in three weeks' time.

Since the Suruc attack, relations between the Turkish state and Kurds have come
under greater strain. The Kurdistan Workers' Party, the Kurdish guerrilla group
known internationally as the PKK, killed two police officers in retaliation.

That led to the breakdown of the fragile ceasefire between the PKK and the
Turkish state. In the past four months, clashes between security forces and PKK
militants have claimed more than 150 lives, including soldiers and policemen.

If the latest attack turns out to be the work of Alagoz's elder brother, it
would be seen as a major security lapse. He is believed to have been on the
security services' radar because of fears he would launch a similar
www.attack.No group has claimed responsibility for the bombings but Ahmet
Davutoglu, the prime minister, said on Saturday that Kurdish rebels, far-Leftist
militants or Isil were the likely culprits.

In Ankara, thousands took to the streets yesterday close to where the attack
happened to pay tribute to the dead. They also criticised the government's
response, with crowds chanting "murderer police" in Sihhiye square.

Selahattin Demirtas, HDP co-chairman, blamed the government for failing to
prevent the attack. "The state which gets information about the bird that flies
and every flap of its wing, was not able to prevent a massacre in the heart of
Ankara," he said.

Scuffles broke out earlier as police used tear gas to prevent Mr Demirtas and
other mourners from laying carnations at the site of the attack.

Several senior Isil figures were killed in an air strike while meeting in a town
in western Iraq, but the group's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, did not appear to
be among them, sources said. Iraq said its air force also struck a convoy that
was carrying Baghdadi to attend it. It said he had been driven away in an
unknown condition.

Editorial Comment: Page 19

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester confronts a police barricade during a commemoration in
Ankara for the bomb victims. Left: a victim's funeral, and right, a protest in
the cityREUTERS/AFP/GETTY/EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror of street hammer attack by drunken girl

BYLINE: Chris Riches

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 335 words


A TEENAGE girl has been locked up after she used a claw hammer to smash the
windscreen of a passing car.

Lauren Weaver, 18, who had downed 22 bottles of lager, armed herself with the
hammer before attacking the car and terrifying its four occupants.

Carlisle Crown Court heard she was arrested by Cumbria Police as part of
Operation Rodeo - a probe into gang violence in the seaside town of Workington.

Judge Paul Batty branded the "lawlessness" as "ludicrous" and remarked that
Weaver appeared to "revel" in the terror of her innocent victims.

Weaver was arrested at her Workington home after police recovered the hammer.

She denied any involvement in the attack in August, saying the hammer was her
father's.

She accused witnesses of being "untruthful".

Prosecutor Gerard Rogerson said: "There have been offences by a group of youths
in the area who were arming themselves and behaving in what might be described
as gang-type activity."

Laura Nash, defending, said Weaver denied being in any gang and had no
recollection of how she came into possession of the hammer.

Miss Nash said: "Alcohol and violence are the biggest problems that Miss Weaver
faces as she begins her adult life."

Judge Batty highlighted a probation officer's observations that Weaver seemed to
"revel" in violent behaviour and appeared to have "absolutely no victim
empathy".

The judge added: "It is said on your behalf that you are not an active member of
a gang but, of course, you associate yourself with others who are.

"This offence is a manifestation of this type of activity. The court simply will
not tolerate this sort of lawlessness."

The judge concluded that he would be "wholly failing" in his public duty if he
did not impose a custodial sentence in an attempt to deter those involved in
violence.

Weaver admitted affray and was sentenced to 16 months' youth detention on
Friday.

Operation Rodeo was set up by Cumbria Police to target an increase of crime in
the area.

There have been 43 arrests so far, with a large haul of weapons recovered.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Weaver, 18, had downed 22 lagers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            October 12, 2015 Monday

The African Union strongly condemns the Boko Haram terrorist attacks in Chad and
Cameroon

LENGTH: 242 words


The Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union (AU), Dr. Nkosazana
Dlamini-Zuma, condemns in the strongest terms the barbaric attacks perpetrated
by the Boko Haram terrorist group against innocent civilians in a market and in
a refugee camp in the village of Baga Sola, Western Chad, and in the village of
Kangaleri, in the far north region of Cameroon, on 10 and 11 October 2015,
respectively. These attacks killed fifty people and wounded many others.



The Chairperson of the Commission expresses the AU's condolences to the families
of the victims and wishes speedy recovery to the wounded. She reiterates the
AU's solidarity with the Governments and peoples of Chad and Cameroon, as well
as of the two other countries affected by the activities of the Boko Haram
terrorist group, namely Niger and Nigeria.

The Chairperson of the Commission reaffirms the AU's commitment to continue
working with the countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission - LCBC (Cameroon,
Chad, Niger and Nigeria), as well as with Benin, towards the full
operationalization of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) mandated to
combat the Boko Haram terrorist group. She appeals to the larger international
community to enhance its support to the countries of the region, in order to
neutralize the Boko Haram terrorist group.Distributed by APO (African Press
Organization) on behalf of African Union Commission (AUC).



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            October 12, 2015 Monday

NZ Condemns Terrorist Attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 126 words


Foreign Minister Murray McCully has condemned the terrorist attack carried out
in downtown Ankara, which has led to a significant death toll with hundreds more
wounded.



"This is an abhorrent attack on innocent people carrying out a peaceful
demonstration," Mr McCully says.

"Our thoughts are with all those affected and our deepest condolences go out to
the families of those who have lost their lives.

"New Zealand has a special relationship with Turkey built on our shared history
and we stand with the people and Government of Turkey in their fight against
terrorism in all its forms," Mr McCully says.

There are no reports of New Zealanders being caught up in the attack, but
official enquiries are continuing.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 10:37 PM GMT

Isis followers plotted Remembrance Sunday terror attack, court hears;
Three men wanted to emulate killing of Lee Rigby after 'chilling' fatwa called
on Isis supporters to slaughter 'the disbelieving', jury told

BYLINE: Lisa O'Carroll

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 978 words


Three Islamic State supporters arrested days before Remembrance Sunday last year
were plotting a terror attack at the commemorations to emulate the killing of
soldier Lee Rigby, a court has heard. They were acting on a "truly chilling"
fatwa, or religious edict, issued by Isis to "rig the roads with explosives" and
to cut off the heads of members of the public, police officers or security
services, said the prosecution.

"This fatwa... inspired the defendants to plan their own attack in this country,
emulating the attack on Lee Rigby," Max Hill, QC for the prosecution told the
court.

The prosecution alleged that the three men, who were "unnaturally interested in
murders and beheadings", were plotting an attack around Remembrance Sunday with
a self-made phone video showing their alleged contempt for the poppy as the
symbol of war commemoration.

In the five weeks prior to their arrest on 6 November, they became increasingly
obsessed with Islamic State beheadings, storing gruesome images of victims
including those of British taxi driver Alan Henning and US journalist James
Foley. Most of the images were heavily sanitised when played for the jury. They
purchased knives including a "Rambo-style" hunting knife online and from a shop
in Ealing, which the prosecution believed were to be used in an attack on a
member of the public.

The jury were shown phone video footage from two of the defendants stamping on a
poppy in a darkly lit street before pushing it into a drain. "May the poppy go
to hell, God willing, Inshallah," one said. "The attitude to the poppy as the
remembrance image in this country is clear," said Hill.

Nadir Ali Syed, 22, from Hounslow, west London, his cousin Yousaf Shah Syed, 20,
from High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, and Haseeb Hamayoon, 28, from Hayes, west
London, have been charged with one count of terrorism, a plot of "researching,
planning and sourcing of weapons and equipment with a view to committing acts
against persons in the UK using knives" between 20 September and 7 November last
year. They were arrested on 6 November last year, just days before Remembrance
Day. All three have pleaded not guilty.

Hill told the jury there was "no coincidence" between their increased
terror-related discussions on chatrooms in the runup to the arrest and the
commemorations for the start of the first world war.

On 31 October, Hamayoon had posted an image of poppies on WhatsApp with the
words: "So do not feel sorry for the disbelieving people." Two days later, Nadir
remarked: "Wearing a poppy supports murdering terrorist."

Hill told jurors: "We would invite you to consider the timing of this increased
activity coming just a few days before Remembrance Sunday on 9 November and
Remembrance Day on 11 November."

The prosecutor told jurors there was evidence the men had shown an interest in
the brutal murder of Rigby, and that one of the defendants had images of his
killers, Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale, on his handset, with the word
"Mujahid", meaning Islamic fighter.

The defendants were in almost daily discussion about violent acts following the
issuing of the fatwa last September by Aby Muhammad al-Adnani, a spokesman for
Isis, the jury heard.

The 11-page fatwa claimed to "provide specific justification for killing police
officers and members of western security services", said Hill.

The document instructed followers to "rig the road with explosives for them
[enemies], attack their bases. Raid their homes. Cut off their heads... hunt
them, wherever they may be... remove their families from their homes and
thereafter blow up their homes."

Jurors heard that before the fatwa, the defendants had shown a keen interest in
Isis - the Syeds had booked return flights to Turkey last January. While Nadir
could not board the flight because he was on police bail in connection with a
public order incident a month earlier, his cousin did travel. Prosecutors
believe Yousaf was minded to go on to Syria, but after contact with his family,
returned to the UK earlier than planned. Days later, in February, Hamayoon used
his wife's bank account to buy a "Rambo-style" knife from a website called Blade
Bargains, the court heard.

Jurors were told the defendants had shown "a level of interest in Rigby that was
repeated again and again and again". When arrested, detectives discovered images
of police community support officers - one outside a Superdrug store in London
and another patrolling the car park of the Hounslow mosque - on the phones of
Nadir Syed and Hamayoon respectively.

The Syeds exchanged messages about the American journalist James Foley, who was
beheaded in August last year, while Nadir also discussed the beheading of a
second American journalist, Steven Sotloff, in an internet chatroom.

On the anniversary of the 9/11 terror attack, Yousaf Syed remarked that "3,000
piglets died that day", while on 13 September, a week before the fatwa, Nadir
had created images of 9/11, the 7/7 terror attack in London and of the beheading
of a British taxi driver, Alan Henning. By 5 November, all three were discussing
how to source knives, the jury heard.

Hamayoon recommended "the dad of all knives", a 12-inch Victorinox chef's knife.
He had already bought one for £36 from a kitchenware shop in Ealing and offered
to take Nadir there to get one for himself.

At one point, Hill paused to warn jurors they were about to see "a shocking
image", albeit sanitised, of a man being beheaded by Isis taken from Nadir's
phone. The photograph showed a man with his head pushed back and being
decapitated, Hill said. Nadir wrote: "Big knife for a big kafir."

Nadir, who had a phone with the pin code 77911, in an apparent reference to the
dates of extremist attacks in London and New York, also quipped: "I really don't
get these guys that go back and forth to Syria... why wuld u ever want to come
back".

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 4:03 PM GMT

Turkey terror attack: mourning after scores killed in Ankara blasts;
More than 90 killed by blasts in Turkish capital Two explosions target
pro-Kurdish peace rally near main train stationSuicide bombers mount attack
three weeks before electionsPM declares three days of national mourning

BYLINE: Constanze Letsch, Nadia Khomami and agencies

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1150 words


At least 95 people have been killed and around 250 wounded in the deadliest
terror attack in Turkey's history after two explosions targeted a peace rally in
the centre of the capital.

Twin explosions outside Ankara's main train station on Saturday morning targeted
hundreds of people who had gathered to protest against violence between
authorities and the Kurdish militant group, the PKK.

Related: Ankara attacks: innocent hearts beating for peace are brutally stopped

Turkish government officials said the explosions were a terrorist attack carried
out by suicide bombers but no group immediately claimed responsibility. Turkey's
prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, called emergency meetings with government
officials and security chiefs.

Early statements put the death toll at 86, but on Saturday evening both the
pro-Kurdish HDP party and the Turkish Medical Association revised the estimate
to at least 97, while the wounded numbered 245 or more.

Immediately after the attack at least 20 bodies could be seen covered by
bloodstained flags on the road. Witnesses said the blasts were seconds apart
shortly after 10am and were so powerful they rocked nearby high-rise buildings.

Turkey awoke in grief on Sunday. "We are in mourning for peace," said the
front-page headline in the secularist Cumhuriyet newspaper as three days of
national mourning declared by the prime minister got under way.

Other papers voiced public anger over the attack. "Scum attacked in Ankara,"
said the Haberturk newspaper, while the pro-government Star declared: "The goal
is to divide the nation."

One of the bombers was identified as a male aged between 25-30 after analysing
bodies at the scene and taking fingerprints, the pro-government Yeni Safak said.

Davutoglu, exposing a mosaic of domestic political perils, said Islamic State,
Kurdish or far-leftist militants could have carried out the bombing.

His office named 52 of the victims overnight and said autopsies were continuing.
It said 246 wounded people were still being treated, 48 of them in intensive
care.

The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, condemned the double bombing,
saying the attack targeted the country's unity and peace. Erdogan said: "I
strongly condemn this heinous attack on our unity and our country's peace. No
matter what its origin, aim or name, we are against any form of terrorist act or
terrorist organisation. We are obliged to be against it together."

The president said there was no distinction between the terrorist attack in
Ankara, which came just three weeks ahead of parliamentary elections, and the
ones targeting Turkish soldiers and police.

"Like other acts of terror, the attack at the Ankara train station is taking aim
at our unity, brotherhood and future," he added. "The solidarity and
determination we are going to display in the face of this attack will be the
biggest and the most meaningful response to the terror."

Erdogan urged people to be "against, not on the side of terror" and said the
perpetrators of Saturday's attack would be found in the shortest time and
delivered to justice.

Some witnesses said ambulances could not immediately reach the scene of the
attack, and that police obstructed the quick evacuation of the wounded from the
square. Turkish MP Sirri Süreyya Önder also claimed a suspicious vehicle and
another suspicious package had been found and that bomb-disposal experts had
been called to the scene.

In the aftermath of the attack those involved in the peace march tended to the
wounded, as hundreds of stunned people wandered around the streets. Bodies lay
in two circles around 20m apart where the explosions had taken place.

The prime minister's office banned media coverage of the attack, citing
"security reasons", though several local media groups said they would ignore the
ministry's orders. Access to social media services, such as Twitter, was
temporarily only possible through VPN in Turkey.

Veysel Eroglu, minister for forestry and water, attempted to put the blame on
the organisers of the peace rally. "Our people need to be careful of such
provocateurs that organise terrorist demonstrations in order to incite discord
in social harmony," he said.

The HDP, one of the groups organising the peace rally, said in a statement that
it had specifically been targeted. Several HDP members and parliamentary
candidates are among the victims of the attack.

Selahattin Demirtas, co-chair of the HDP party, said: "This attack is not
targeting our state and national unity, it is perpetrated by the state against
the people. We are witnessing a massacre here. A cruel and barbarian attack was
carried out. The death toll is high." Demirtas added that he did not expect that
those responsible for the bombings would be brought to justice.

Asked at a press conference if he had considered resigning over the Ankara
attack, interior minister Selami Altinok denied that there had been failures in
security preparations for the planned peace rally. Only hours after the Ankara
bomb attacks, the PKK declared a unilateral ceasefire and called on its fighters
to halt all guerrilla attacks in Turkey, according to the Firat news agency.

The US state department strongly condemned what it called a heinous attack,
while the US embassy in Ankara said on Twitter: "All of us must stand united
against terror." President Barack Obama later offered his condolences to the
Turkish president in a phone call. He reportedly affirmed that the US would
"stand with Turkey and its people in the fight against terrorism and other
security challenges in the region".

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, expressed "sadness and dismay" over the
attacks, while Russia's Vladimir Putin offered condolences to Erdogan.

In Istanbul an estimated 10,000 people marched down the main central avenue to
denounce the attacks. Thousands also took to the streets in solidarity in Paris,
Strasbourg and Marseille in France, as well as in Zurich in Switzerland.

The explosion will spark significant security concerns ahead of the
parliamentary elections and fuel fear over violent outbreaks in the region. A
rally for the pro-Kurdish HDP party was bombed in June, ahead of last year's
general election, but this is the deadliest single attack on the country's soil.

Turkey has been in a heightened state of alert since starting a "synchronised
war on terror" in July, including airstrikes against Islamic State fighters in
Syria and PKK bases in northern Iraq. It has also rounded up hundreds of
suspected militants at home.

Designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the US and the European Union, the PKK
launched a separatist insurgency in 1984 in which more than 40,000 people have
been killed.

The state launched peace talks with the PKK's jailed leader in 2012 and the
latest in a series of ceasefires had been holding until the violence flared
again in July.

With Reuters and the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 10:57 AM GMT

Turkey hit by protests over government response to suicide bombings;
Demonstrators in Istanbul accuse Recep Tayyip Erdogan of slow action after
Ankara terror attack on peace rally, and of censoring press and social media

BYLINE: Chris Johnston and agencies

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 338 words


Impromptu protests began in Istanbul on Saturday evening in response to the
Turkish government's handling of a terror attack in the capital that killed more
than 90 people. Hundreds of protesters chanting anti-government slogans gathered
in the city, blaming the authorities for the twin bomb attacks that targeted a
peace rally in Ankara earlier that day.

Some called on President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to resign and accused the ruling
AK party of being responsible for the deaths. The protesters intended to march
towards Taksim Square in the centre of Istanbul. Police have previously
prevented demonstrators from reaching the square, which was the focal point of
weeks of violent anti-government protests in mid-2013.

Related: Turkey terror attack: scores killed in twin Ankara blasts

The protests come as the Turkish government said it had imposed a temporary news
blackout following the suspected suicide bombing at the pro-Kurdish march in
Ankara. A government spokesman said the media censorship was of pictures showing
the moment of the blast, gruesome or bloody images or "images that create a
feeling of panic". He said that news outlets could face a "full blackout" if
they did not comply with the order.

Many people in Ankara reported being unable to access Twitter and other social
media after the blasts. It was not clear whether authorities had blocked access
to the sites. Turkey frequently imposes blackouts following attacks.

Meanwhile, a newspaper close to an Islamic cleric who opposes Erdogan said its
editor had been remanded in custody ahead of trial on charges of insulting the
Turkish president on Twitter. The move has escalated fears of a media clampdown
ahead of elections on 1 November.

Bulent Kenes, chief editor of the English-language paper, Today's Zaman, was
arrested at its Istanbul offices on Friday and sent to jail by court order. A
crowd of about 200 people gathered at the paper's offices to chant support for
Kenes as he was taken away and held banners saying "Free media cannot be
silenced".

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

Terror attack deepens the Turkish crisis;
The Opinion Matrix COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD BOMBING IN ANKARA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 95 words


BBC News The West's vital Middle East ally now faces a perfect storm: deep
political polarisation, the bubble of economic success about to burst, a
resumption of violence with the PKK, the threat from Isis, and two million
Syrian refugees and counting. The tragedy is a sign of the dark times for
Turkey. (Mark Lowen) The Economist Turkish authorities have declared three days
of national mourning. In more stable countries, mourning might lead to
reconciliation. In Turkey, it seems more likely to give way to anger - and an
accelerating descent into violence. (Editorial)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 10:10 AM GMT

Ankara bombing: Protesters clash with police following terrorist attack in
Turkey;
Demonstrators angry at turkish security forces following the countries most
deadly terrorist attack that led to the deaths of 95 people.

BYLINE: Megan Townsend

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 78 words


Petrol bombs and rocks were launched at police trucks as protesters took to the
streets of Ankara on Saturday night after a terrorist blast in the area killed
95 people, the countries worst terrorist attack to date.

Resentment to authorities has reached an all-time high as many in the area
believe the state may have been involved, or had prior knowledge of the attack.

The Turkish AKP "The Justice and Development Party" have vowed to bring those
responsible to justice.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 3:19 PM GMT

Two female suicide bombers kill nine people in Boko Haram attack in Cameroon as
the Islamist terror group continues to spread out from Nigeria

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words



     ·    The suicide bombers killed at least nine people in twin attacks in
          Cameroon
     ·    Boko Haram controls land in Nigeria's north east but is warring with
          army
     ·    Its Islamic militants have spread their attacks into neighbouring
          countries


Two female suicide bombers have killed nine people in Cameroon's far north in
the latest wave of terror attacks carried out by Boko Haram militants.

It comes a day after five of the group's suicide bombers killed at least 41
people in Chad, escalating concerns about the Islamic militants' reach.

The group currently controls a swathe of land in Nigeria's north east and is at
war with soldiers from a coalition of countries after spreading attacks into
neighbouring Cameroon and Chad.

Yesterday the two female suicide bombers carried out the attacks in the
Cameroonian village of Kangaleri, security and local sources said.

Another source said: 'We currently have a toll of 11 dead, including the two
attackers and nine civilians, as well as 29 wounded.'

A third woman was accompanying the bombers but it was not clear if she also
meant to blow herself up.

Boko Haram has used Cameroon's far north region as a base for recruiting and
supplying its operations in Nigeria until last year, when Cameroonian forces
drove it out.

But it has now stepped up attacks in the area. Last month, two female suicide
bombers killed at least three people in Mora.

Cameroon is participating in an 8,700-strong, Nigerian-led regional force
expected to start operations against Boko Haram this year.

Saturday's bomb victims in Chad included dozens of Nigerians who had fled the
group in recent months. The bombers were believed to be two women, two children
and a man.

Female suicide bombers hit the village of Baga Sola's market when it was at its
busiest and a second group of bombers killed at least 22 people at a nearby
refugee camp.

Police spokesman Paul Manka said the attackers staged five bombings, adding that
two were near the refugee camp but not in it.

'There were three explosions at the Baga Sola market and two explosions near the
Dar-es-Salam refugee camp. From our information, the explosion was not in the
refugee camp, but in a part of the village nearby,' Manka said.

The village is in the Lake Chad region near the border with Nigeria, where Boko
Haram first launched its insurgency six years ago. Amnesty International says
the uprising has killed 20,000 people.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            October 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town is terrorised by 'clown attacks'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 85 words


A 'SCARY clown' is terrorising residents of a Kent town.

A woman wearing a white mask and a black catsuit chased after three groups of
children in Tonbridge last week, leaving them petrified.

Two attacks were near Hillview School for Girls where extra staff have been
placed on gate duty.

Kent Police confirmed officers would be 'active' in the area in coming weeks.

But one resident, Graham Anderson, 51, said: 'If a clown tries to chase me down
the road they'll end up with a red nose, and not one from a joke shop.'

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 6:17 PM BST

SPORTS CENTRE NAMED IN HONOUR OF TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK VICTIM JOEL RICHARDS

BYLINE: Alexander Britton, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 205 words


One of the victims of the Tunisia terror attack is to have a new sports centre
named in his honour.

Joel Richards, 19, was killed within 24 hours of arriving in Sousse along with
his uncle Adrian Evans, 49, and grandfather, Patrick Evans, 78, in June.

The new leisure centre in Wednesbury - Joel's home town - will bear his name,
Sandwell Council has announced.

The £8.1 million facility will include a 25-metre pool, a learner pool, two
dance studios and a 100-station fitness suite.

Joel's mother Suzy, who also lost her father and brother in the massacre, said:
``Mom, Owen and me feel very honoured and proud that they have chosen to name
the new sports centre after Joel.

``Joel was a very talented and inspirational young man who had the world at his
feet. He spent a lot of time volunteering within the community, encouraging and
teaching young people all types of sports.''

Council deputy leader Steve Eling said: ``The dreadful events at Sousse are
still fresh in all our memories. The victims will never be forgotten.

``We want to do what we can to honour them. Naming the new hall after Joel will
be a fitting tribute to a young man for whom sport played such a big part in
life.''

The new centre will be opened later this year.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 02:17 AM GMT

Russia 'Foils' Terrorist Attack In Moscow

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 123 words



HIGHLIGHT: Russia's counter-terrorism agency says it has arrested a group of
people who were preparing to carry out an attack in Moscow.


  The National Anti-Terrorism Committee said in a statement that homemade
explosives were found in an apartment in the capital where the group were
arrested.

No details about the number or identity of the suspects were given.

Russian news agencies, citing law enforcement sources, said more than 100
residents in the building were evacuated during the raid and supplies of natural
gas were cut off during the operation.

Russia's decision to launch airstrikes in Syria has led to warnings the move
could encourage Islamic extremists to target the country and make it easier for
them to recruit Russian Muslims.

Russia says 2,400 of its citizens have joined Islamic State, which controls
large parts of Iraq and Syria.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 6:29 PM GMT

Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu;

The extremist group is a prime suspect, the Turkish leader says after the
country's worst terror attack killed 97 and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc and Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 862 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) is being treated as a prime suspect
in Turkey's worst terror attack as investigators are close to identifying one of
the suicide bombers, the prime minister has said.

Ahmet Davutoglu said on Monday said the extremist group was the country's "first
priority" to investigate as he confirmed that the attack on a peace rally in
Ankara was carried out by two suicide bombers .

"Looking at how the incident took place, we are probing Daesh as our first
priority," Mr Davutoglu told NTV, a Turkish TV channel, using the Arabic acronym
for Isil. Hours after his comments, Turkish media reported that the
investigation into the bombing would be conducted in secret.

A court decision said lawyers would not be allowed to details of the
investigation "with some exceptions", Today's Zaman reported . Similar decisions
were given after previous bombings in Turkey.

"We are focusing on [Isil] in our investigations. We are zooming in on one name
that points to a certain criminal organisation, but one cannot just say that we
should round up an entire sleeper cell and throw them [in prison]. We must act
according to the law," he said.

Nearly 100 people were killed during Saturday's attack on a peace rally in
central Ankara and nearly 250 were injured.

Thousands had gathered near the city's main train station to call for an end to
the fighting between the Turkish state and PKK when the bomb exploded on
Saturday morning.

Mr Davutoglu said that identifying the attackers would lead to the discovery of
which group was behind the attack but insisted that officials were looking at
other groups including the Kurdish guerrilla group, Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK), and the far-Left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C)
as "potential suspects".

Despite his comments, it is believed investigators are focusing on Isil because
of the attack's similarities with past bombings by the extremist group.

Since Saturday, dozens have been arrested in raid targeting Isil in the few days
after the attack. There were suggestions that the target of the attack and the
type of bomb used led investigators to an Isil faction in Adiyaman province in
south-central Turkey known as Adiyaman Ones.

At least 10 members of the cell are understood to have been detained after a
raid in late July. A number are also believed to be in Syria.

On Sunday, there were reports suggested the brother of a terrorist who killed 33
pro-Kurdish activists in July in a similar attack could be responsible for
Saturday's attack.

On Monday, several victims' funerals took place in Istanbul and Selahattin
Demirtas, leader of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP),
attended funerals pay his respects. Many coffins were covered in red and yellow
flags of the Kurdish flag.

A march in the capital to condemn the attack became an anti-government protest
as tensions over government protection increase. Many blamed the attack on the
government and despite the denials by the ruling Justice and Development Party
led by Mr Davutoglu, many accused the authorities of neglect at how such an
attack could take place in the country's capital.

Demonstrators chanted: "The killer state will be held to account!"

Political parties cancelled their rallies ahead of the general election in less
than three weeks' time.

Omer Celik, AKP spokesman, said the rallies for peace would be organised rather
than political party rallies.

"Our few rallies on Friday and consecutive rallies on a routine schedule, rather
than a party rally, will be organized as rallies of unity, peace and fraternity
against terror," Hurriyet Daily News reported.

Mr Demirtas said his party would hold rallies because the life of an individual
was more important.

"How can we hold rallies in such a bitter atmosphere? We can provide our safety
by ourselves and we are not seriously worried about that. The life of one person
is more important than our election success and rallies."

Despite the government saying the main suspect was Isil, Francesco Milan, a
teaching fellow in in defence studies at King's College London, said it did not
mean the main organisation planned the attack.

"The most likely organisation behind the attack seems to be Isil indeed - but
there are some caveats at play. This is not necessarily an attack that has been
ordered from Isil's top echelons. Those who carried it out might very well have
been trained under Isil, but this does not necessarily mean the organisation
itself has planned the attack or ordered it."

"The fact that Isil currently has Turkey, as well as the Kurdish community, on
its radar is beyond obvious. Since June, the organisation's media branch (called
al-Hayat Media Centre) has been publishing and disseminating 'Konstantiniyye', a
monthly magazine written in Turkish, where it discusses its strategy and
political approach, together with current international events, and, more
importantly, giving Isil's perspective on Turkish domestic politics.

"Tellingly, the front cover of the latest issue of "Konstantiniyye", published
on October 4, refers to the "virtue" and the 'lawfulness' of suicide bombing."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 6:14 PM GMT

Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu;

The extremist group is a prime suspect, the Turkish leader says after the
country's worst terror attack killed 97 and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc and Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) is being treated as a prime suspect
in Turkey's worst terror attack as investigators are close to identifying one of
the suicide bombers, the prime minister has said.

Ahmet Davutoglu said on Monday said the extremist group was the country's "first
priority" to investigate as he confirmed that the attack on a peace rally in
Ankara was carried out by two suicide bombers .

"Looking at how the incident took place, we are probing Daesh as our first
priority," Mr Davutoglu told NTV, a Turkish TV channel, using the Arabic acronym
for Isil. Hours after his comments, Turkish media reported that the
investigation into the bombing would be conducted in secret.

"We are focusing on [Isil] in our investigations. We are zooming in on one name
that points to a certain criminal organisation, but one cannot just say that we
should round up an entire sleeper cell and throw them [in prison]. We must act
according to the law," he said.

Nearly 100 people were killed during Saturday's attack on a peace rally in
central Ankara and nearly 250 were injured.

Thousands had gathered near the city's main train station to call for an end to
the fighting between the Turkish state and PKK when the bomb exploded on
Saturday morning.

Mr Davutoglu said that identifying the attackers would lead to the discovery of
which group was behind the attack but insisted that officials were looking at
other groups including the Kurdish guerrilla group, Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK), and the far-Left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C)
as "potential suspects".

Despite his comments, it is believed investigators are focusing on Isil because
of the attack's similarities with past bombings by the extremist group.

Since Saturday, dozens have been arrested in raid targeting Isil in the few days
after the attack. There were suggestions that the target of the attack and the
type of bomb used led investigators to an Isil faction in Adiyaman province in
south-central Turkey known as Adiyaman Ones.

At least 10 members of the cell are understood to have been detained after a
raid in late July. A number are also believed to be in Syria.

On Sunday, there were reports suggested the brother of a terrorist who killed 33
pro-Kurdish activists in July in a similar attack could be responsible for
Saturday's attack.

On Monday, several victims' funerals took place in Istanbul and Selahattin
Demirtas, leader of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP),
attended funerals pay his respects. Many coffins were covered in red and yellow
flags of the Kurdish flag.

A march in the capital to condemn the attack became an anti-government protest
as tensions over government protection increase. Many blamed the attack on the
government and despite the denials by the ruling Justice and Development Party
led by Mr Davutoglu, many accused the authorities of neglect at how such an
attack could take place in the country's capital.

Demonstrators chanted: "The killer state will be held to account!"

Political parties cancelled their rallies ahead of the general election in less
than three weeks' time.

Omer Celik, AKP spokesman, said the rallies for peace would be organised rather
than political party rallies.

"Our few rallies on Friday and consecutive rallies on a routine schedule, rather
than a party rally, will be organized as rallies of unity, peace and fraternity
against terror," Hurriyet Daily News reported.

Mr Demirtas said the party would hold rallies because the life of an individual
was more important.

"How can we hold rallies in such a bitter atmosphere? We can provide our safety
by ourselves and we are not seriously worried about that. The life of one person
is more important than our election success and rallies."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 6:12 PM GMT

Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu;

The extremist group is a prime suspect, the Turkish leader says after the
country's worst terror attack killed 97 and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc and Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 580 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) is being treated as a prime suspect
in Turkey's worst terror attack as investigators are close to identifying one of
the suicide bombers, the prime minister has said.

Ahmet Davutoglu said on Monday said the extremist group was the country's "first
priority" to investigate as he confirmed that the attack on a peace rally in
Ankara was carried out by two suicide bombers .

"Looking at how the incident took place, we are probing Daesh as our first
priority," Mr Davutoglu told NTV, a Turkish TV channel, using the Arabic acronym
for Isil. Hours after his comments, Turkish media reported that the
investigation into the bombing would be conducted in secret.

"We are focusing on [Isil] in our investigations. We are zooming in on one name
that points to a certain criminal organisation, but one cannot just say that we
should round up an entire sleeper cell and throw them [in prison]. We must act
according to the law," he said.

Nearly 100 people were killed during Saturday's attack on a peace rally in
central Ankara and nearly 250 were injured.

Thousands had gathered near the city's main train station to call for an end to
the fighting between the Turkish state and PKK when the bomb exploded on
Saturday morning.

Mr Davutoglu said that identifying the attackers would lead to the discovery of
which group was behind the attack but insisted that officials were looking at
other groups including the Kurdish guerrilla group, Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK), and the far-Left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C)
as "potential suspects".

Despite his comments, it is believed investigators are focusing on Isil because
of the attack's similarities with past bombings by the extremist group.

Since Saturday, dozens have been arrested in raid targeting Isil in the few days
after the attack. There were suggestions that the target of the attack and the
type of bomb used led investigators to an Isil faction in Adiyaman province in
south-central Turkey known as Adiyaman Ones.

At least 10 members of the cell are understood to have been detained after a
raid in late July. A number are also believed to be in Syria.

On Sunday, there were reports suggested the brother of a terrorist who killed 33
pro-Kurdish activists in July in a similar attack could be responsible for
Saturday's attack.

On Monday, several victims' funerals took place in Istanbul and Selahattin
Demirtas, leader of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP),
attended funerals pay his respects. Many coffins were covered in red and yellow
flags of the Kurdish flag.

A march in the capital to condemn the attack became an anti-government protest
as tensions over government protection increase. Many blamed the attack on the
government and despite the denials by the ruling Justice and Development Party
led by Mr Davutoglu, many accused the authorities of neglect at how such an
attack could take place in the country's capital.

Demonstrators chanted: "The killer state will be held to account!"

Political parties cancelled their rallies ahead of the general election in less
than three weeks' time.

Omer Celik, AKP spokesman, said the rallies for peace would be organised rather
than political party rallies.

"Our few rallies on Friday and consecutive rallies on a routine schedule, rather
than a party rally, will be organized as rallies of unity, peace and fraternity
against terror," Hurriyet Daily News reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 5:59 PM GMT

Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu;

The extremist group is a prime suspect, the Turkish leader says after the
country's worst terror attack killed 97 and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc and Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) is being treated as a prime suspect
in Turkey's worst terror attack as investigators are close to identifying one of
the suicide bombers, the prime minister has said.

Ahmet Davutoglu said on Monday said the extremist group was the country's "first
priority" to investigate as he confirmed that the attack on a peace rally in
Ankara was carried out by two suicide bombers .

"Looking at how the incident took place, we are probing Daesh as our first
priority," Mr Davutoglu told NTV, a Turkish TV channel, using the Arabic acronym
for Isil. Hours after his comments, Turkish media reported that the
investigation into the bombing would be conducted in secret.

"We are focusing on [Isil] in our investigations. We are zooming in on one name
that points to a certain criminal organisation, but one cannot just say that we
should round up an entire sleeper cell and throw them [in prison]. We must act
according to the law," he said.

Nearly 100 people were killed during Saturday's attack on a peace rally in
central Ankara and nearly 250 were injured.

Thousands had gathered near the city's main train station to call for an end to
the fighting between the Turkish state and PKK when the bomb exploded on
Saturday morning.

Mr Davutoglu said that identifying the attackers would lead to the discovery of
which group was behind the attack but insisted that officials were looking at
other groups including the Kurdish guerrilla group, Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK), and the far-Left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C)
as "potential suspects".

Despite his comments, it is believed investigators are focusing on Isil because
of the attack's similarities with past bombings by the extremist group.

Since Saturday, dozens have been arrested in raid targeting Isil in the few days
after the attack. There were suggestions that the target of the attack and the
type of bomb used led investigators to an Isil faction in Adiyaman province in
south-central Turkey known as Adiyaman Ones.

At least 10 members of the cell are understood to have been detained after a
raid in late July. A number are also believed to be in Syria.

On Sunday, there were reports suggested the brother of a terrorist who killed 33
pro-Kurdish activists in July in a similar attack could be responsible for
Saturday's attack.

On Monday, several victims' funerals took place in Istanbul and Selahattin
Demirtas, leader of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP),
attended funerals pay his respects.

Many blamed the attack on the government and despite the denials by the ruling
Justice and Development Party led by Mr Davutoglu, many accused the authorities
of neglect at how such an attack could take place in the country's capital.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 11:29 AM GMT

Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu;

The extremist group is a prime suspect, the Turkish leader says after the
country's worst terror attack killed 97 and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) is being treated as a prime suspect
in Turkey's worst terror attack on a peace rally in Ankara that killed 97
people, the prime minister has said.

Ahmet Davutoglu said the extremist group was the country's "first priority" to
investigate as he confirmed that the attacks were carried out by two suicide
bombers .

"Looking at how the incident took place, we are probing Daesh as our first
priority," Mr Davutoglu said, using the Arabic acronym for Isil.

"We are close to identifying one of the bombers," he said on Monday. He added
that identifying the attackers would lead to the discovery of which group was
behind the attack but insisted that officials were looking at other groups.

Nearly 100 people were killed - higher according to some estimates - during
Saturday's attack on a peace rally in central Ankara and nearly 250 were
injured.

Thousands had gathered near the city's main train station to call for an end to
the fighting between the Turkish state and Kurdish guerrilla group, Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK).

Mr Davutoglu told NTV television that PKK and the far-Left Revolutionary
People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) remained "potential suspects".

"It would not be accurate to give an indication right now," he said.

On Monday, several victims' funerals were due to take place in Istanbul and
Selahattin Demirtas, leader of the pro-Kurdish opposition Peoples' Democratic
Party (HDP), was expected to attend.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Jerusalem bus attack terror in 'day of rage'

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 175 words


A "DAY of rage" in Israel reached a bloody climax today when two Palestinian men
boarded a Jerusalem bus and shot and stabbed passengers.

Two were killed and five injured. In another area of the city, a Palestinian
rammed his car into a bus stop, got out and began stabbing pedestrians, killing
one. Police said he was "neutralised".

After the bus attack one of the assailants was reported killed, the ambulance
service said, and the other captured. Earlier, a Palestinian man stabbed and
wounded an Israeli on a shopping street in Raanana, north of Tel Aviv. Within an
hour, another knife-wielding Palestinian had wounded four people in Raanana.

Six Israelis and 27 Palestinians, including nine alleged attackers and eight
children, have died in almost two weeks of attacks and clampdowns. Violence has
been stirred in part by Muslim anger over increasing Jewish visits to the
al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem.

The main Palestinian factions, including the Western-backed Fatah movement and
the militant Hamas group, had declared a "day of rage" today.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wounded: medics with one of the stabbing victims in Jerusalem today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 7:58 PM GMT

Islamic extremists who 'planned terror attack' in Britain 'shopped online for
machetes'

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 612 words


AN ISLAMIC extremist who planned a savage Lee Rigby-style terror attack on the
streets of Britain browsed online for a samurai sword and machete, a court heard
today.

PA

Lee Rigby and a mobile phone picture of Nadir Syed

Hasseeb Hamayoon, who was caught with a 15-inch hunting knife, also posted an
advert for a gun for sale to friends on Whatsapp in the months before an alleged
attack, it was claimed.

Just days before Remembrance Day Sunday last year, the 28-year-old was arrested
along with cousins Nadir, 22 and Yousaf Syed, 20 on suspicion of plotting a
terrorist attack.

Officers swooped on the group on November 7 last year after they went shopping
for large kitchen knives in Ealing, west London, the court heard.

Related articles  Extremist ideology underpinning ISIS has 'wide support
among...  Mother of Brit jihadi Thomas Evans says she hopes he's 'burning in...

It is alleged that police subsequently discovered a series of photos of him
posing with a 'handgun' and a slew of jihadist material on his phone.

The pictures, taken just months before the alleged attack, were said to show
Hamayoon sat in a chair pointing the barrel at the lens.

The Islamic State-sympathiser, who holds a Pakistani passport, moved to the UK
after spending periods living in Australia and the US.

Jurors were shown a Whatsapp conversation with a contact in Australia from
August 2015.

In it the friend said he "hated" living Down Under, prompting Hamayoon to reply:
"Come to the UK, many brothers that will radicalise you."

He went on: "No better place than the Islamic State.

"The kuffars [non believers] are going to kick us out soon... when they realise
IS is expanding and a threat to them."

PA

Court artist sketch of Haseeb Hamayoon, Nadir Syed and Yousaf Syed

The court was told about more distressing images, including of decapitated heads
found on Nadir Syed's phone.

Detectives found an image of a grinning jihadi holding two severed heads
downloaded on in July last year.

The following day black combat knife and sheath were photographed on the phone.

Jurors at Woolwich Crown Court also heard today how several screen grabs from
online knife shop bargainblades.co.uk were found on Nadir Syed's mobile.

One had a black samurai sword with a 19 inch straight blade, while pictures of a
second "bush machete" was also found.

A 15-inch 'Rambo-style' knife was later found at Hamayoon's home in Hayes, West
London.

Related articles  TERROR ALERT: 3,000 Islamist extremists in Britain 'ready
to...  REVEALED: Counter-terror police shut down 1,100 extremist websites...

Max Hill QC read some of the group's Whatsapp conversation and an encrypted
online message board where they swapped ISIS propaganda and discussed jihad
aloud to the court.

One message in early September reportedly said it would "feel good" to meet up
and "chill" with friends on the 9/11 anniversary.

"We should meet up on 911 actually. For a chill out. It will feel good.
Happiness in the air," Mr Hill read to jurors.

GETTY

Woolwich Crown Court

The court heard how Nadir Syed wrote a message saying "3,000 innocent b******s
died", while his cousin labelled the victims of the 9/11 attacks "innocent
w*****s".

Nadir Syed, of Hartington Road, Solihull, Yousaf Syed, of West Wycombe Road,
High Wycombe, Bucks, and Hamayoon, of Tudor Road, Hayes, West London, deny
preparing to commit terrorist acts between September 20 and November 7, 2014.

The trial continues.

Related articles WATCH: 'Please come home' Britain takes fight against ISIS
recruitment onto social media Blogger hacked to death by 'Islamist militants'
after posting anti-extremist views Jeremy Corbyn invited 'friend' to Parliament
who glorified deaths of British soldiers

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

Press Statement on terrorist attacks by Boko Haram

LENGTH: 294 words


The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
horrific 10 and 11 October 2015 terrorist attacks attributed to Boko Haram,
perpetrated in the towns of Baga Sola, Chad, and Kangaleri, Cameroon, which
resulted in a large number of deaths and casualties.



The members of the Security Council expressed their deep condolences and
sympathy to the families and friends of those killed and injured by these
heinous acts, as well as to the people and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon.


The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever, and by
whomsoever committed.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with their responsibilities under the Charter
of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Chad and Cameroon authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

Distributed by APO (African Press Organization) on behalf of United Nations -
Security Council.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

'Horrific' terrorist attacks in Chad and Cameroon condemned by UN Security
Council

LENGTH: 243 words


The members of the UN Security Council have strongly condemned the "horrific"
terrorist attacks attributed to Boko Haram, perpetrated on Saturday and Sunday
in the towns of Baga Sola, Chad, and Kangaleri, Cameroon, which resulted in a
large number of deaths and casualties.



In a press statement , the 15-member Council expressed its deep condolences and
sympathy to the families and friends of those killed and injured by these
"heinous acts," as well as to the people and the governments of Chad and
Cameroon.

The Council members also reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever, and by
whomsoever committed.

In addition, the Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Chad
and Cameroon authorities in this regard.

Furthermore, the Council reminded States that they must ensure that measures
taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under international
law, in particular international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     October 13, 2015 Tuesday 10:01 PM GMT

Syrian war's al-Qaida affiliate calls for terror attacks in Russia;
Leader of Jabhat al-Nusra makes demand in response to Moscow's intervention on
behalf of Assad regime, also calling for increased strikes on Alawite villages

BYLINE: Martin Chulov in Beirut

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 868 words


The Syrian war's al-Qaida affiliate, Jabhat al-Nusra, has called for terror
attacks in Russia, while also urging strikes on Alawite villages and placing
bounties on the heads of Bashar al-Assad and the Hezbollah leader, Hassan
Nasrallah.

The threats from the group's leader, Abu Mohammed al-Jolani, were made on
Tuesday in a taped call to arms that condemned the Russian intervention in the
conflict, which began a fortnight ago. Jolani's comments signal another
escalation in the four-year war, in which his forces have become increasingly
prominent.

"There is no choice but to escalate the battle and to target Alawite towns and
villages in Latakia," he said. "And I call on all factions to hit their villages
daily with hundreds of missiles as they do to Sunni towns and villages."

Related: EU calls on Russia to halt airstrikes in Syria

Jolani's comments came as rebel groups aligned to the Free Syria Army (FSA) said
they were now receiving more anti-tank missiles than at any time in the last two
years, with supplies from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states, which are
facilitated by the US, ramping up since the Russian entry into the war.

The rockets had been instrumental in opposition gains in central Syria over the
past 18 months, allowing rebels to push towards the coastal heartland of the
Assad regime and partly negating the total air superiority of government forces.

"The delivery is faster though but they're the same weapons they have given us
before," said Brigadier Ayad, a leader of one such opposition unit, Suqour
al-Ghab. "We are still asking our friends for the anti-aircraft rockets but they
have never given us any.

"We have proven to Russia, the Syrian regime and even to our friends that the
FSA is an active power on the ground. We have been showered with bombs but we
managed to change the game and lure the regime into something that cost them
dearly. Politics is a dirty game. Everybody is waiting to find the alternative
to the regime before they take stronger action."

The rebel units have insisted they retain control of all of the rockets, called
Tow missiles, which are highly effective in destroying tanks and other armoured
vehicles. US officials say only two of an estimated 700 supplied so far have
ended up in the hands of al-Nusra, or other jihadist groups, unlike in the case
of a separate $500m attempt to raise a unit to fight Islamic State. That
programme was abandoned last week after trained forces surrendered many of their
weapons soon after crossing into Syria from Turkey.

The US and a coalition of allied air forces it leads are continuing to target
the Islamic State in eastern Syria and north-west Iraq and have accused Moscow
of instead attacking opposition groups, including Suqour al-Ghab, despite its
claims to the contrary.

Related: US airdrops ammunition to Syrian rebel groups after strategy shift

The stepped-up supply of Saudi rockets, originally sold to Riyadh by the US, is
being seen as a direct reaction to the Russian attacks, raising the spectre of a
proxy war between the former cold war foes.

Fighting on the ground near the Syrian president's heartland, and further north
in Idlib province has been more intense in the past week than at any point in
the past two years.

Underscoring the stakes, Iran recently announced the death of one of its
brigadier generals, the most senior Iranian officer killed in combat in more
than 30 years, while Hezbollah confirmed that two of its most senior members had
also been killed. All three men are believed to have died in fighting in Idlib,
where Jabhat al-Nusra and the Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham are strongest.

In Syria's north-east, the US on Monday dropped 50 tonnes of weapons and
ammunition to the Kurdish YPG militia, for use in its campaign against Isis. The
YPG has been the most competent ground force to fight the jihadists, but was
accused by Amnesty International on Tuesday of conducting a campaign of ethnic
cleansing against Arabs and Turkmen in towns and villages it had conquered near
the Turkish border.

Related: Who backs whom in the Syrian conflict

Hezbollah officials in Beirut claim that Russia's muscular role will secure
central Syria, especially Latakia, Hama and Tartus, which are instrumental to
the regime's fortunes, and clear the way for a political solution.

However, rebel groups claim that Moscow's moves will instead prolong the war,
drive some rebel groups towards Islamist or jihadist groups and bog it down in a
grinding, unwinnable campaign, much like the Soviet Union experienced in
Afghanistan, and the US endured in Iraq.

Russian officials have said Washington has not replied to its requests for
information about where rebel groups it backs are located. US officials have
justified their silence by claiming said that the groups' locations have been
precisely targeted and that they do not want to be portrayed as allying with
Moscow.

"We are not going to surrender and we will keep fighting till the last drop,"
said Ayad. "Even the civilians who are living with us, being bombed day and
night, prefer to die from the regime's barrel [bombs] than living with their
repression."

Additional reporting by Mais al-Bayaa.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 6:40 PM GMT

Ankara bombing: Anger mounts as President Erdogan stays silent in wake of
Turkey's worst terror attack;
The bombings have highlighted the widening and bitter divide in Turkish politics
and public opinion

BYLINE: Zia Weise

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 430 words


Three days after the worst ever terror attack on Turkish soil killed 97 people,
the country's leader has remained unusually silent.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is famously vocal on matters of national
importance. Yet while mourners march at funerals calling him a "murderer", he
has declined to discuss the attack in public, releasing only a brief written
statement since Saturday's bombing of a peace rally in the capital, Ankara.

A demonstrator wears tape on her mouth as others hold portraits of people killed
by suicide bombings as they attend a commemoration in Ankara (Getty)

Bulent Kusoglu, an Ankara MP for the opposition CHP party, tweeted: "A president
steps up, at times when the nation and society go through difficulties, to be a
uniting and reassuring force. Where is the president these days?"

Authorities said that they were close to identifying the suicide bombers and the
country's Prime Minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, has named Isis as the prime suspect
in the investigation.

Read more

Turkey's political leaders trade blame in wake of Ankara bombings

Protesters clash with police following Ankara bombing

Ankara Q&A: Do previous attacks point to a perpetrator?

An attack designed to sow division appears to have succeeded

When the scene of the bombings was reopened to the public, Ankara's residents
left red carnations at the site. "I came here to pray," said a Turkish central
bank employee on her lunch break. She asked for her name to be withheld, fearing
that, as a state employee, she would lose her job even for just expressing
sadness over the attack.

The bombings have highlighted the widening and bitter divide in Turkish politics
and public opinion. Mourners took to the streets to protest against the
government, blaming the state for failing to protect the peace rally - but in
Istanbul, trade unions and activists were refused permissions for a planned
commemoration rally, leading to skirmishes with police.

Mr Davutoglu further enraged mourners by claiming Turkey had a list of potential
suicide bombers but could not act against them before they had carried out an
attack. "Legal action cannot be taken until the realisation of the criminal
act," he told a Turkish television channel.

Turkey's deputy prime minister, Nurman Kurtulmus, said that the bombers had most
likely infiltrated Turkey from a neighbouring country, adding that several
suspects had been arrested in connection with the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 6:59 PM GMT

Horrifying video shows moment knife-wielding man was shot dead following ram
raid terror attack at bus stop;
In the stomach-churning video, all hell breaks loose as a car drives at full
speed into two pedestrians on a pavement, hurling them into the air, before the
gunman is tackled by armed bystanders

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 523 words


This is the horrifying moment a ram raid terror attack unfolds in a busy street.

In the stomach-churning video, a car drives at full speed into two pedestrians
on a pavement in Jerusalem , hurling them into the air.

The driver then slams into a bus stop, narrowly missing a third victim, before
getting out of the car and hacking at the survivors with a machete.

Old women can be seen desperately trying to escape the carnage.

His murderous rampage is only brought to halt when a passer-by guns him down.

The footage, from a nearby security camera, shows the driver is still not
finished.

He hurls his knife at the passer-by and attacks another man who tries to kick
him as he lies on the ground.

Eventually a second shot puts him down.

One of his victims died and six others were wounded, police said.

The attack, in the ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood of Geul, was one of
several across Jerusalem as the city exploded into violence today.

A total of three Israelis were murdered and more than 20 have been injured in a
"day of rage".

Two were killed when Arab attackers shot and stabbed passengers on a Jerusalem
bus before being shot by police.

The two men shot several people and stabbed others on board in East Talpiot, a
district in East Jerusalem.

A security guard overpowered one attacker and shot him but a second assailant
locked the bus doors to stop police boarding being being shot by police through
the windows.

A terrified Israeli woman at the scene said tearfully. "You can't be safe
anywhere. We are worried all the time.

"Our children are trembling."

As police rushed to the bus attack, another was unfolding in downtown Jerusalem,
where three Israelis were stabbed at a bus stop.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld identified all three attackers as Arab
residents of the Jabal Mukaber district of East Jerusalem.

Security officials are considering sealing off Arab areas in East Jerusalem
after it emerged three attackers came from the district.

Near-daily stabbings by Palestinians have left dozens of Israelis dead and
wounded over the past fortnight.

There were also two separate stabbing attacks in the central Israeli town of
Raanana.

Earlier in the morning, a Palestinian stabbed an Israeli man, wounding him at a
bus stop in Raanana, near Tel Aviv before being severely beaten and serioiusly
injured by passers-by.

Dramatic CCTV footage emerges of stabbing attack in Jerusalem

Shortly afterwards at least four other people were wounded in another knife
attack nearby.

The assailant fled, but was then arrested by police.

Police identified both of the Raanana attackers as residents of East Jerusalem.

Tensions between Israelis and Palestinians have escalated since last month,
fuelled by clashes in Jerusalem, in the West Bank, and in the Gaza strip.

After a period of relative quiet, violence between the two communities has
spiralled since clashes erupted at a flashpoint Jerusalem holy site in
mid-September.

Soon afterwards, two Israelis were shot dead by Palestinians in the West Bank
and the stabbing attacks began.

Both Israel and the Palestinian authorities have accused one another of doing
nothing to protect each other's communities.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 6:04 PM GMT

Horrifying video shows moment knife-wielding man was shot dead following ram
raid terror attack at bus stop;
In the stomach-churning video, all hell breaks loose a car drives at full speed
into two pedestrians on a pavement, hurling them into the air, before the gunman
is tackled by armed bystanders

BYLINE: By Jon Dean

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


This is the horrifying moment a ram raid terror attack unfolds in a busy street.

In the stomach-churning video, a car drives at full speed into two pedestrians
on a pavement in Jerusalem, hurling them into the air.

The driver then slams into a bus stop, narrowly missing a third victim, before
getting out of the car and hacking at the survivors with a machete.

Old women can be seen desperately trying to escape the carnage.

His murderous rampage is only brought to halt when a passer-by guns him down.

The footage, from a nearby security camera, shows the driver is still not
finished.

He hurls his knife at the passer-by and attacks another man who tries to kick
him as he lies on the ground.

Eventually a second shot puts him down.

One of his victims died and six others were wounded, police said.

The attack, in the ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood of Geul, was one of
several across Jerusalem as the city exploded into violence today.

A total of three Israelis were murdered and more than 20 have been injured in a
"day of rage".

Two were killed when two Arab attackers shot and stabbed passengers on a
Jerusalem bus before being shot by police.

And another Israeli died after being run down and stabbed elsewhere in the city.

Dramatic CCTV footage emerges of stabbing attack in Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 4:27 PM GMT

Man accused of plotting Lee Rigby-style terror attack 'posed with handgun in
series of pictures' trial told;
Haseeb Hamayoon, 28, can be seen brandishing the pistol at the camera as he sits
in a kitchen, jurors were told

BYLINE: By Kate Ferguson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 426 words


One of the men accused of plotting to carry out a Lee Rigby-style terror attack
posed with a handgun in a series of pictures, jurors were told.

Haseeb Hamayoon, 28, can be seen brandishing the pistol at the camera as he sits
in a kitchen, jurors were told.

He is accused of plotting a terror attack around Remembrance Day last year along
with Yousaf Syed, 20, and 22 year-old Nadir Syed. All three deny the charges.

Today jurors at London's Woolwich Crown Court were shown photos of Hamayoon
allegedly found on his phone posing with the pistol in four pictures taken in
June last year.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC said: "They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's
kitchen holding what appears to be a handgun in four successive photos.

"What type of handgun it is, whether real or imitation, I'm not able to say.

"It's the pose of the image and the attitude that we invite your attention to."

The court was also shown gruesome pictures of beheadings and terrorists
allegedly found on Nadir Syed's phone.

From July 2013 until his arrest on November 6 last year, he uploaded harrowing
images of beheadings and suicide bombers, the court heard.

In July 2013 a photograph of a decapitated head on top of a barrel next to a man
holding a gun was downloaded to the phone, jurors heard.

In October that year a picture of an Islamic symbol along with the phrase
"Woolwich Attack, it's an eye for an eye" was downloaded to the phone, jurors
were told.

He also had pictures of Michael Adebolajo, who along with Michael Adebowale ran
over and stabbed to death Drummer Rigby as he walked along the street in
Woolwich, south London.

And he had gruesome pictures of three young Islamic State fighters holding a
decapitated head and a picture of a PCSO , the court heard.

The three men deny planning acts of terrorism between September 20 and November
7 last year.

The Syed cousins also talked about meeting up on the anniversary of the 9/11
terror attacks - saying it would "feel good" because "happiness" would be in the
air, the court heard.

Writing on Telegram, they also mocked the 3,000 people who died in the terror
attacks, jurors heard.

On September 1 last year Yousaf Syed, writing under the pseudonym Abu Umara,
wrote "We should link up on 9/11 actually" adding: "For a chill out."

He went on "it will feel good", adding in another message: "Happiness in the
air."

Commenting on the posts Nadir Syed, using his online profile Islam4life, wrote:
"3,000 innocent b******* died."

His cousin added "innocent w******" and Nadir replied "walling off buildings and
s***".

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 8:40 PM GMT

Bahrain accuses Iran of 'state-sponsored terrorism';
Tiny Gulf state says Iran is providing sanctuary and financial support for
terrorists planning attacks aimed at overthrowing pro-Western monarchy

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


The tiny Gulf state of Bahrain has accused Iran of waging a campaign of
"state-sponsored terrorism" aimed at overthrowing the country's pro-Western
ruling monarchy.

Bahraini security officials claim Iran is providing sanctuary and financial
support for terrorists planning attacks in the kingdom, and say that scores of
Bahraini citizens have received training in various terrorist techniques in
camps operated by Iran's Revolutionary Guards.

Speaking during a visit to London on Tuesday, Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmad Al
Khalifa, Barhain's Foreign Minister, claimed Iran had embarked on "the path of
conquest and power projection" against neighbouring Gulf states.

"We are fighting state-sponsored terrorism," said Sheikh Khalid. "There are
cells operating in Bahrain that report directly to their superiors in Iran."

Since Iran signed its controversial nuclear deal with the West in June, Bahraini
officials say they have identified a significant increase in Iranian-backed
terrorist activity in the sheikhdom.

In July two Bahraini policemen were killed and six others injured after a bomb
attack carried out by terrorists the Bahrainis claim were trained by
Iranian-backed militiamen.

Bahraini security officials have also intercepted attempts by the Revolutionary
Guards to smuggle weapons and ammunition into the kingdom by sea.

Sheikh Khalid said that, while the Western powers regarded the nuclear deal as
heralding a new era in relations between Iran and the outside world, the
agreement has had no impact on Iran's aggressive attitude towards its neighbours
in the Gulf region.

Apart from sponsoring terror cells in countries like Bahrain, the Iranians were
also backing attempts by Houthi rebels in Yemen to seize control of the country
from the democratically-elected government.

"We need to address Iran's relations with its neighbours in the Gulf," said
Sheikh Khaled. "This was not included in the nuclear deal, and this is a serious
impediment to Iran having a more normal relationship with the outside world."

Claims that Iran is backing attempts to destabilise Bahrain will be greeted with
deep concern by Britain, which regards Bahrain as a vital ally in maintaining
security in the oil-rich Gulf region.

The kingdom is home to the US Navy's Fifth Fleet, and Britain recently signed an
agreement to establish a permanent Royal Navy base in Bahrain .

But the country has been beset by sectarian conflict since anti-government
demonstrations erupted four years ago, with Shia protesters involved in violent
clashes with security forces loyal to Bahrain's Sunni royal family.

While the Bahraini government has been heavily criticised for its heavy-handed
response, Bahraini officials claim Iran has been encouraging Shia extremists to
attack the government.

Now Bahrain fears Iran will use the billions of dollars it is due to receive
when the sanctions are lifted to embark on a massive arms build up designed to
intimidate its neighbours in the Gulf.

"Iran's strategy appears to be on of saturation," said Sheikh Khalid. The
Iranians are "stockpiling vast quantities of rockets to the level that can
overwhelm any missile defence system in the Gulf.

"We fear that funds diverted to the Revolutionary Guards following the lifting
of sanctions will be utilized to further increase the threat of Iran's missile
programme."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 8:32 PM GMT

First pictures show Remembrance Day beheading plot suspect wielding gun
menacingly;
Haseeb Hamayoon, accused of planning a terror attack, joked about getting
popcorn to watch a Jihadi John beheading video, court hears

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


Pointing a gun at the camera and with a menacing stare, this is one of the
suspects in the alleged Poppy day beheading plot.

Haseeb Hamayoon, 28, 'is one of three men accused of planning a terror attack
around Remembrance Sunday last year in which they were allegedly to attack
victims with a Rambo-style hunting knife.

Hamayoon also joked in online conversations about getting some popcorn before
watching of the gruesome beheading video featuring Isil executioner Jihadi John.

He, along with cousins Yousaf Syed, 20, and Nadir Syed, 22, were obsessed with
the Islamist murder of Lee Rigby and wanted to emulate the attack, Woolwich
Crown Court has been told.

Jurors were shown photos of Hamayoon allegedly found on his phone posing with
the pistol in four pictures taken in June last year.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC said: "They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's
kitchen holding what appears to be a handgun in four successive photos.

"What type of handgun it is, whether real or imitation, I'm not able to say.

"It's the pose of the image and the attitude that we invite your attention to."

"They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's kitchen holding what appears to be
a handgun in four successive photos"Prosecutor Max Hill QC

Hamayoon discussed Jihadi John in online chat- the British man who has carried
out a string of beheadings of Western hostages for Isil.

He suggested the killer, whose nickname refers to John Lennon from The Beatles,
would drive a "yellow submarine".

He also said he would need to fetch some popcorn to watch Jihadi John's graphic
beheading videos, the court heard.

Gruesome pictures of beheadings and terrorists were found on Nadir Syed's phone
as well, the jury heard.

From July 2013 until his arrest on November 6 last year, he uploaded harrowing
images of beheadings and suicide bombers.

In July 2013 a photograph of a decapitated head on top of a barrel next to a man
holding a gun was downloaded to the phone, jurors heard.

In October that year a picture of an Islamic symbol along with the phrase
"Woolwich Attack, it's an eye for an eye" was downloaded to the phone, jurors
were told.

· <em class="bold">Teachers' extremist fears over boy, 10, after he complains
about lack of prayer room                      <em class="bold" />

He also had pictures of Michael Adebolajo, who along with Michael Adebowale ran
over and stabbed to death Drummer Rigby as he walked along the street in
Woolwich, south London.

And he had gruesome pictures of three young Islamic State fighters holding a
decapitated head and a picture of a PCSO, the court heard.

The three men deny planning acts of terrorism between September 20 and November
7 last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 13, 2015 Tuesday 8:11 PM GMT

First pictures show Remembrance Day beheading plot suspect wielding gun
menacingly;
Haseeb Hamayoon, accused of planning a terror attack, joked about getting
popcorn to watch a Jihadi John beheading video, court hears

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Pointing a gun at the camera and with a menacing stare, this is one of the
suspects in the alleged Poppy day beheading plot.

Haseeb Hamayoon, 28, is one of three men accused of planning a terror attack
around Remembrance Sunday last year in which they were allegedly to attack
victims with a Rambo-style hunting knife.

Hamayoon also joked in online conversations about getting some popcorn before
watching of the gruesome beheading video featuring Isil executioner Jihadi John.

He, along with cousins Yousaf Syed, 20, and Nadir Syed, 22, were obsessed with
the Islamist murder of Lee Rigby and wanted to emulate the attack, Woolwich
Crown Court has been told.

Jurors were shown photos of Hamayoon allegedly found on his phone posing with
the pistol in four pictures taken in June last year.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC said: "They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's
kitchen holding what appears to be a handgun in four successive photos.

"What type of handgun it is, whether real or imitation, I'm not able to say.

"It's the pose of the image and the attitude that we invite your attention to."

"They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's kitchen holding what appears to be
a handgun in four successive photos"Prosecutor Max Hill QC

Hamayoon discussed Jihadi John in online chat- the British man who has carried
out a string of beheadings of Western hostages for Isil.

He suggested the killer, whose nickname refers to John Lennon from The Beatles,
would drive a "yellow submarine".

He also said he would need to fetch some popcorn to watch Jihadi John's graphic
beheading videos, the court heard.

Gruesome pictures of beheadings and terrorists were found on Nadir Syed's phone
as well, the jury heard.

From July 2013 until his arrest on November 6 last year, he uploaded harrowing
images of beheadings and suicide bombers.

In July 2013 a photograph of a decapitated head on top of a barrel next to a man
holding a gun was downloaded to the phone, jurors heard.

In October that year a picture of an Islamic symbol along with the phrase
"Woolwich Attack, it's an eye for an eye" was downloaded to the phone, jurors
were told.

· <em class="bold">Teachers' extremist fears over boy, 10, after he complains
about lack of prayer room                      <em class="bold" />

<em class="bold">· Three 'Isil-inspired jihadists planned Remembrance Day
beheading in Britain'                                          <em class="bold"
/>

He also had pictures of Michael Adebolajo, who along with Michael Adebowale ran
over and stabbed to death Drummer Rigby as he walked along the street in
Woolwich, south London.

And he had gruesome pictures of three young Islamic State fighters holding a
decapitated head and a picture of a PCSO, the court heard.

The three men deny planning acts of terrorism between September 20 and November
7 last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Turkish commentary says three terrorist attacks thwarted before Ankara bombing

LENGTH: 1325 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Yeni Safak website on 13 October

[Column by Abdulkadir Selvi: "What Was the Action That the Prime Minister Did
Not Mention?"]

When Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was making important statements on NTV
[television], we were, as the Ankara [newspaper] representatives, together with
AKP [Justice and Development Party] Deputy Chairman Omer Celik.

What was the agenda? Following the explosion in Ankara, was there any question
of any other agenda?

The Prime Minister's statements contained very important information. One of
these bits of information pertained to two incidents that had been prevented,
one in Istanbul and the other in Ankara. I have tried to get details on these
two incidents. A frightening scene has emerged before me.

One day prior to the explosion in Ankara, a suicide bomber was apprehended in
front of the Istanbul Security Directorate [police headquarters] on Vatan
Street. There had been previous suicide bomb actions at the Vatan Street
Security Directorate. On this occasion, the activist was captured while
conducting surveillance before being able to stage the attack.

As for the nature of the action in Ankara that was alluded to by the Prime
Minister, it was different.

Three to four days prior to the explosion at the Ankara Train Station, that is,
on the night linking Monday to Tuesday, a terrorist was apprehended while
preparing for an action with a long-barreled weapons against the Supreme Court
of Appeals.

It was determined that the terrorists, both the suicide bomber in Istanbul and
the one preparing for the action against the Supreme Court of Appeals in Ankara,
were members of the DHKP-C [Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front]. As
the Prime Minister said, in order not to give rise to outrage among the public,
these two events are merely being turned over to the judiciary. They are not
being shared with the public.

I want to share some of the details of the preparations for the attack against
the Ministry of Justice. The organization was seeking an action that would have
resonance.

The mode of action resembled the incident in the Caglayan Courthouse. DHKP-C
militants who entered the Caglayan Courthouse on 1 April 2015 took Prosecutor
Mehmet Selim Kiraz hostage and then martyred him. It was determined that the
terrorist captured with a long-barreled weapon was making preparations for an
assassination targeting the Supreme Court of Appeals. He was apprehended while
planning to enter into the Supreme Court of Appeals, take the targeted
individual hostage, and then martyr him.

During the period when Cemil Cicek was Minister of Justice, on 1 July 2005, a
suicide bomber by the name of Eyup Beyaz had tried to enter into the Justice
Minister, but had been shot and killed by security personnel. The suicide
bomber, who was a DHKP-C militant, had chosen a timeframe when Justice Minister
Cemil Cicek would be entering the ministry.

A third preparation for an action was when operations were being conducted
against the cemeteries in the Southeast that the [Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK]
organization had declared to be "martyrs' cemeteries." The organization, as
retaliation for this, planned to conduct actions with bombs emplaced in pressure
cookers against the Edirnekapi Martyrs' Cemetery in Istanbul. A team that sought
to detonate the explosives during a martyr's funeral and thereby carry out a
major massacre was captured in Istanbul. In this way, the action was thwarted.

In the meantime, it is useful to look at what has been done by the government
following the explosion at the Ankara Railroad Station.

One of the first few people to recognize the gravity of the situation was Prime
Minister Davutoglu. The Prime Minister immediately convened a security summit.
In the meeting, Davutoglu questioned the security bureaucracy. He asked why,
when security precautions were taken in Sihhiye Square where the rally was to be
held, sufficient measures were not taken in the staging area. He asked every
question that you might think of, and squeezed the officials like an
investigating prosecutor. Afterwards, he issued a directive for an investigation
to be opened in order for those responsible to be identified.

The Prime Minister also had another effort carried out. He gave a directive for
conclusions to be drawn from the horrific explosion at the Ankara Station, and
for the security concept to be updated and developed.

There is no question of resignations or dismissals of the Interior and Justice
Ministers. The two ministers need to work night and day for the incident to be
elucidated. But there is a question of removing anyone seen to have been
negligent from the civilian and security bureaucracy.

The Prime Minister stated that the identity of one individual connected to the
suicide bombing was about to be determined. I want to take this opportunity to
share some corridor talk about Prime Minister Davutoglu's call to the [political
party] leaders and his discussions with CHP [Republican People's Party] General
Chairman Kemal Kilicdaroglu.

The Prime Minister directed the members of the Council of Ministers to provide
information to the opposition leaders in the event that they were called by
them. Indeed, he himself, during the period when he was Foreign Minister, from
time to time used to visit the opposition leaders and provide them information
on foreign policy issues. Within this scope, Interior Minister Selami Altinok
twice briefed Kilicdaroglu following the explosion at the Ankara Station.

During Kilicdaroglu's meeting with the Prime Minister, the General Directorate
of Security Intelligence Section Chief provided a briefing on the explosion to
the CHP leader. When Kilicdaroglu asked about MIT [National Intelligence
Organization] Undersecretary Hakan Fidan, Davutoglu directed his personal
secretary to "summon Hakan Fidan." His personal secretary, Seyit Ahmet Iskin,
because he was aware of the MIT Undersecretary's schedule, said: "Sir, he is at
the moment at the General Staff due to a previously scheduled meeting." At this
point, Hakan Fidan was contacted. The MIT Undersecretary came to the Cankaya
Palace but because Kilicdaroglu had just at that time departed, they were unable
to meet. In the meeting, Kilicdaroglu did not suggest the dismissal of the MIT
Undersecretary. He only asked about him in order to obtain information. But he
did bring up the Twitter messages of [Presidential Adviser] Burhan Kuzu and [AKP
Ankara Parliamentary Deputy] Aydin Unal. The Prime Minister said that a previous
Twitter message of Burhan Kuzu had been retweeted. It was not new.

The Prime Minister placed before Kilicdaroglu Twitter messages that CHP
parliamentary deputies had sent. Such as the message referring to "vampires" by
CHP Deputy Group Chairman Ozgur Ozel. Essentially, the two leaders displayed a
stance that made it plain that they were unhappy with these Twitter messages
sent during a period when we are all in deep sorrow.

The Prime Minister ascribes great importance to speaking with the CHP leader
during such a critical period. He believes that for the leaders of the two major
political movements that hope to govern Turkey to come together on matters
related to the future of the country will bring great reassurance to society.
For that reason, he is being careful to keep the channels of dialogue with
Kilicdaroglu open. Davutoglu wants to develop a similar process of dialogue with
MHP [Nationalist Action Party] leader [Devlet] Bahceli as well. But Bahceli is
not being responsive. When the Prime Minister's desire to meet was conveyed to
him, [he responded]: "They are accustomed to our saying 'no.' So let us answer
'no.'"

Not to meet with the Prime Minister, not to give an appointment to Kilicdaroglu,
not to enter into a coalition, not to support the struggle against terrorism...
Well, how far [are you going to take this], Mr Bahceli?

Source: Yeni Safak website, Istanbul, in Turkish 0000 gmt 13 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Six civilians killed in terrorist attack in northern Mali - government

LENGTH: 238 words


Text of report by Malian state-owned ORTM TV on 13 October

[Presenter] Here is a communique issued by the government:

On Tuesday 13 October at around 7:30 a.m., a convoy of civilian vehicles leaving
Douentza, escorted by members of the national armed and security forces, was
ambushed at 105km from Gao.

The terrorist attack launched with rockets caused the death of six civilians and
injured two, including a soldier. Both were evacuated to Gao regional hospital.
Three tanks were also burnt.

The detachment in charge of the escort immediately hit back and started tracking
down the attackers. Additional troops of the Malian armed and security forces
were sent there.

In these painful circumstances, the Government of Mali offers its sincere
condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to the
injured.

The Government of Mali condemns in the strongest terms this barbaric terrorist
attack.

The Government of Mali reminds the citizens and friends of Mali that it will
tirelessly work with all its partners in the fight against terrorism and for the
restoration of security throughout the territory. This remains the biggest
challenge in which all people must participate.

The Government of Mali reiterates its support for the Malian armed and security
forces and for all national security forces in their patriotic action against
terrorism in all its forms.

Source: ORTM TV, Bamako, in French 2000 gmt 13 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 6:22 PM GMT

Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 director apologises for fake 'terrorist attack'
Twitter marketing stunt;
Black Ops 3 director Jason Blundell said he was 'shocked' by the reaction to the
stunt

BYLINE: Doug Bolton

SECTION: GAMING

LENGTH: 744 words


The director of first-person shooter game Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 has
apologised for a Twitter marketing stunt thatlive tweeteda fake terrorist attack
in Singpore on a mock news account.

Developers Activision and Treyarch have said they were "shocked" at the reaction
to the stunt, and apologised to those who were offended and fooled by the fake
terroralerts.

The series of tweets were posted on 29 September, by theofficial Call of Duty
Twitter account, which had its namechanged to 'Current Events Aggregate'. The
account's profile picture, description and banner image were also changed to
look like agenuine account belonging to anews organisation.

Then, the account then started Tweeting messages about a fake terrorist attack.

BREAKING NEWS: Unconfirmed reports are coming in of an explosion on the North
bank of the Singapore Marina.

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

The first tweet read: "BREAKING NEWS: Unconfirmed reports are coming in of an
explosion on the North bank of the Singapore Marina."

Later tweets brought more updates about the fictional story. One said: "The
cause of the explosion is unknown, but large plumes of dark smoke have been seen
rising from the site."

It continued: "City authorities urge the public not to panic, and not to hinder
the emergency teams that are converging on the area."

UPDATE: Singapore Authorities have officially announced a state of emergency and
declared martial law.

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

The main indicationthat the news story was fictional was the small

@CallofDuty

handle next to the changed account name - but even users who were familiar with
the accountwere confused about whether the story was real or not.

Read more

Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 slammed for fake terrorism tweets

It was only when the account started tweeting that military drones had been
dispatched to "shoot down civilian drones violatingthe no-fly order" that the
narrative diverged from a plausible attack - as it turned out, the updates were
glimpses into the "future fiction of Black Ops 3", as the account said in a
disclaimer after the stunt finished.

However, a similar notification that the story was fake wasn't made before the
series of tweets began.

UPDATE: Riot police have dispersed rioting mobs to the southwest of Chinatown
using LRAD sonic area control weapons. pic.twitter.com/yDHT2tnXzj

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

Intended as a viral marketing campaign, it was greeted with criticism from many
users, who branded the stunt "irresponsible," "awful" and "distateful".

Tweeting at the account, one user said: "There have been too many similar
tragedies lately to joke in the way you did, without making your fiction clear."

The developers still haven't released an official statement about the stunt, but
game director Jason Blundell

told

IGN

in an interview

that he was sorry for offence caused.

"Citizens living in the area are being asked to stay in their homes, and to keep
their doors and windows closed."

- Call of Duty (@CallofDuty) September 29, 2015

"It was absolutely not done for any kind of attention in any way," he said,
despite the fact that the purpose of the stunt was to encourage people to buy
the game.

Read more

Parents could be reported to police if children play violent video

Call of Duty has earned more than $10bn since 2003

BBC's Newsbeat reprimanded for letting Isis fighter compare jihad to

"It was not done maliciously, or as any kind of scare tactic. I personally am
very sorry for anyone who looked at it and got the wrong idea because it
genuinely wasn't meant that way."

He continued: "It was done on our channel, and it was to talk about the fiction
of the world. I think we were as shocked as everybody else when it started
blowing up, because essentially we were teeing up ready for a story beat."

So @CallofDuty has more than 2M followers & is faking news that could be
devastating for those unaware it's video game marketing. Awful.

- end comment sections (@tauriqmoosa) September 29, 2015

"So again, very sorry for anyone who took it thgat way. It wasn't meant that way
at all - it was supposed to just be getting ready for a campaign element."

While the unusual advertising campaign didn't create any

War of the Worlds

-style mass panic in Singapore, the stunt has joined a long, long list of
ill-advised video game marketing stunts.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 9:45 PM GMT

British terror attack survivor returns to the Tunisian beach where gunman
slaughtered 38 holidaymakers to confront his demons... and thank the locals who
saved him

BYLINE: STEPHANIE LINNING FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words



     ·    Britons Tony and Christine Callaghan were injured in Tunisia terror
          attack
     ·    A total of 38 people were killed when ISIS gunman stormed popular
          resort
     ·    Now Mr Callaghan has returned to thank hospital medics and hotel staff
     ·    Also faced the trauma of his ordeal as he continues 'journey of
          recovery'


Tony and Christine Callaghan were sitting around the hotel pool when they heard
gunshots from the beach 100 yards away.

Many holidaymakers thought the noise was fireworks but Mr Callaghan, a former
RAF serviceman, recognised the ominous bangs and urged everyone to run for
safety.

The British couple were among dozens of tourists who were forced to run for
their lives as ISIS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui rampaged through the popular resort
near Sousse, Tunisia, on June 26.

A total of 38 people, including 30 Britons, were killed in the terror attack.
Dozens more, including Mr and Mrs Callaghan, were injured.

Now, Mr Callaghan, 63, from Norfolk, has returned to Tunisia to thank the staff
at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel, and the medics at Sahloul Hospital who treated
his and his wife's gunshot wounds.

He also went back to face the trauma of his ordeal, telling ITV News it is a
'step forward' in his 'journey of recovery'.

Hours after the attack, Mr Callaghan told the Mail On Sunday how he, his wife
and other panic-stricken tourists were chased through the lobby of the hotel, up
a flight of stairs and along a dead-end corridor as Rezgui sprayed bullets,
killing a number of them.

Mr Callaghan dived into a room with six other people and rammed desks and chairs
against the door - before realising to his horror his wife of 40 years was not
with him.

He told The Mail on Sunday: 'I looked around and Christine wasn't there. Then I
could hear her screaming: "Help me, I've been shot".'

With tears welling in his eyes, he added: 'At that moment I didn't know if she
was going to die or not. I did think the very worst - that I was going to lose
her.'

Mr Callaghan, who was himself suffering from a bullet wound to his right leg,
nearly tore the barricade down to reach his wife but realised that doing so
would endanger the others taking refuge in the room. He said: 'You could hear
the gunfire - we dared not open the door.'

Miraculously, however, Mrs Callaghan survived the attack - after a bullet
ricocheted off a sunglasses case in a beach bag she was carrying and avoided
causing her fatal injuries.

Despite her horrific wounds - her thigh bone was shattered by a bullet - she
managed to comfort another British woman who was writhing in pain next to her
with four bullet holes in her back.

Mr Callaghan has now returned to Sahloul Hospital in Sousse to present £3,000 he
and his wife have helped to raise to say thank you.

The couple were greeted with banners and gifts and Mr Callaghan thanked the
surgeon who operated on his wife.

Speaking to ITV News, he said: 'On my journey of recovery, this was something
that needed to be done. There was so much negativity that day - this, to me, was
a step forward.'

Later, he laid flowers at a memorial plaque in the hotel's grounds and read a
poem in the card he brought from him and his wife.

It read: 'Time may pass and fade away but memories of you will always stay. You
will not be forgotten.'

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Man accused of plotting Lee Rigby-style terror attack 'downloaded pictures of
soldier's killer'

BYLINE: Jess Bell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A man who is one of three accused of plotting to carry out a Lee Rigby-style
terror attack had pictures of one of the solider's killers downloaded onto his
phone along with the phrase "Woolwich Attack, it's an eye for an eye", jurors
were told.

The court was also shown gruesome pictures of beheadings and terrorists
allegedly found on Nadir Syed's phone.

Nadir Syed, 22, of Hounslow, is accused of plotting a terror attack around
Remembrance Day last year along with Yousaf Syed, 20, of High Wycombe, and
28-year-old Haseeb Hamayoon, of Hayes.

All three deny the charges.

From July 2013 until his arrest on November 6 last year, Nadir Syed uploaded
harrowing images of beheadings and suicide bombers, the court heard.

In October 2013 year a picture of an Islamic symbol along with the phrase
"Woolwich Attack, it's an eye for an eye" was downloaded to the phone, jurors
were told.

He also had pictures of Michael Adebolajo, who along with Michael Adebowale ran
over and stabbed to death Drummer Rigby as he walked along Wellington Street in
Woolwich.

Drummer Lee Rigby was killed on the streets of Woolwich in 2013.

Jurors at Woolwich Crown Court were shown photos of Hamayoon allegedly found on
his phone posing with the pistol in four pictures taken in June last year.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC said: "They are images of Mr Hamayoon in somebody's
kitchen holding what appears to be a handgun in four successive photos.

"What type of handgun it is, whether real or imitation, I'm not able to say.

"It's the pose of the image and the attitude that we invite your attention to."

The three men deny planning acts of terrorism between September 20 and November
7 last year.

Hamayoon joked about Jihadi John - the British man who has carried out a string
of beheadings for IS - the court heard.

TOP STORIES

Hamayoon also talked admiringly about the Islamic State (IS) and had looked up
articles about their recruitment videos, the court heard.

Responding to news US president Barack Obama had authorised air strikes in Iraq
in August last year, Hamayoon branded Obama a "kaffir" on WhatsApp.

The Syed cousins also talked about meeting up on the anniversary of the 9/11
terror attacks - saying it would "feel good" because "happiness" would be in the
air, the court heard.

Writing on Telegram, they also mocked the 3,000 people who died in the terror
attacks, jurors heard.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 7:27 PM GMT

Turkey bombers identified: Police name brother of July attack terrorist as
Ankara culprit;
Yunus Emre Alagoz and Omer Deniz Dundar have been named as the culprits who
killed 106 people and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc and Zia Weise in Ankara

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1120 words


The Turkish government and intelligence services were under pressure on
Wednesday night to explain how a suspect known to have terror links was able to
carry out the worst attack in the country's modern history .

Turkish police on Wednesday night identified one of the suicide bomber suspects
as the brother of an attacker who killed 33 people in a separate suicide blast
in July.

Yunus Emre Alagoz was named by Turkish police in local media, while a second
bomber was named as Omer Deniz Dundar.

The attackers were reportedly identified using DNA from the blast which killed
106 people and injured hundreds more during a peace rally outside Ankara's main
railway station on Saturday. The youngest victim was nine years old.

The two men are believed to be part of an Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(Isil) cell in Adiyaman, south-central Turkey, which has been the source of many
recruits for the extremist groups and other Islamist militant groups. Hundreds
of men and some women are said to have left the province to go to Syria.

Before the men were identified, a list produced by the Turkish National
Intelligence Organisation (MIT) of 21 potential suicide bombers was widely
circulated online in Turkey featuring the two men's name.

Alagoz's whereabouts had been unknown since July, when his Isil-linked younger
brother Abdurrahman carried out a suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish
activists in the town of Suruc on Turkey's Syrian border.

There had been fears he would launch a suicide attack similar to his brother's
and yesterday the government was attacked by pro-Kurdish politicians as well as
the public for failing to tackle the Isil spillover from the Syrian war.

It emerged in Radikal newspaper that the suspected bomber's father had been to
police about his son's visit to Syria. Dundar left Turkey for Syria in 2013.

"In 2014, my son came to Adiyaman and lived with me for eight months. I told
police to jail him. They questioned and released him. Eight months later, he
went to Syria," said Dundar's father, who declined to give his name.

"He was married and had a child. We hadn't spoken for eight months. What am I
going to do now?"

There has been growing anger against Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the government for
alleged security lapses .

In his first public comments after the bombing, the Turkish president admitted
there had been major intelligence failings and ordered the immediate suspension
of the country's police, intelligence and security chiefs.

Instead of uniting a polarised country, the Ankara bombings have exacerbated
divisions in Turkish society and politics ahead of a snap general election next
month. Funerals and commemoration marches were accompanied by anti-government
slogans as protesters blamed the state for failing to protect Saturday's peace
rally.

Selahattin Demirtas, the co-chairman of pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party
(HDP), has accused the government of having "blood on its hands" and turning a
"blind eye" to Isil.

The government's language has been no less divisive.

"Those holding the state, the government and even me personally responsible for
the attacks must know they are aligning themselves with terrorist
organisations," Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish president, said yesterday.

While the government's first priority is to bring the perpetrators to justice,
mourners demanded for the state to also be held to account. Many struggled to
believe how Turkey's intelligence agencies were unable to prevent suicide
bombers from striking at the very heart of Ankara.

"All of us are sad, and all of us are angry. No one would think this could
happen in this city, right in the centre, so close to the MIT [intelligence
agency] headquarters," said Özge, a junior government employee who came to pay
her respects at the site of the explosions. She asked for her surname to be
withheld for fear of losing her job.

Walking to the funeral of a young man in Ankara's Batikent suburb on Sunday,
mourners chanted: "Fascists, murderers, AKP" and "thief, murderer, Erdogan".

"There is a lot of anger. We will not forget, and we will not forgive," said
Cevahir Canpolat, head of the Alevi house of worship in Batikent, which buried
four members of its community after Saturday's bombings.

Protesters are also calling for an investigation into the behaviour of Ankara's
police force. Television footage showed riot police tear-gassing and beating
survivors immediately after the bombs struck.

Several witnesses claimed that the police's response delayed the arrival of
ambulances and prevented doctors from reaching the injured.

"The ambulances couldn't get through, we had to race the injured to the hospital
in our own cars," said 29-year-old Gulumcan Kayi, who attended Saturday's rally.

"The medical association attended the march. There were many doctors there, but
the police stood between them and the dying. Then the police tear-gassed us. I
think that increased the casualties," said Turan Baykan, the chairman of an
Ankara-based HDP committee. "But before, when the bombs went off, there were no
policemen around."

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish prime minister, told Reuters news agency that some
of the suspects in had been in Syria for several months and could be linked to
Isil and Kurdish militants.

"We are working on (investigating) two terrorist organisations, Daesh and PKK,
because we have certain evidence regarding the suicide bombers having links with
Daesh, but also some linkages with PKK groups," Mr Davutoglu said, referring to
the extremist group's Arab name.

"Some suspects were in Syria for many months." He claimed that Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK) and leftist Revolutionary People's Liberation Army-Front
(DHKP-C) militants were trained as suicide bombers in northern Iraq and sent to
Turkey.

On Wednesday, two people who posted tweets suggesting a bomb could explode in
the capital the day before the suicide bombings were detained. It was reported
that the tweets said: "The bomb will explode in Ankara" and "What if (the
Islamic State group) explodes (a bomb) in Ankara?"

A government official told Associated Press that the suspects had ties to the
PKK .

PKK renewed fighting with the Turkish state soon after the Suruc attack during
which pro-Kurdish activists on their way to help rebuild Kobane were killed by
the Isil-linked terrorist. The guerrila group killed two policemen as "revenge"
and Turkey retaliated with attacks on the group in northern Iraq.

The peace rally attacked in the capital was organised to call for an end to the
renewed fighting. More than 30,000 people were killed during the three-decade
long fighting, mainly in Turkey's south-east.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 5:29 PM GMT

Turkey bombers identified: Police name brother of July attack terrorist as
Ankara culprit;
Yunus Emre Alagoz and Omer Deniz Dundar have been named as the culprits who
killed 97 people and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 771 words


One of the suicide bombers responsible for Turkey's deadliest terror attack has
been named by Turkish police as the missing brother of a terrorist who committed
a similar attack in July.

Yunus Emre Alagoz, whose younger brother Abdurrahman killed 33 people in a bomb
massacre in July, was named by Turkish police in Turkish media. The second
bomber was named by Turkish police as Omer Deniz Dundar.

The attackers were identified using DNA from the blast which killed 97 people
and injured hundreds more as thousands gathered for a peace rally on Saturday.
The youngest victim was nine years old.

According to Turkish reports, the bombers arrived separately to the rally in
Ankara from Gaziantep, south-central Turkey, and were part of a list of 21
suspected would-be suicide bombers.

His whereabouts had been unknown since July, when his brother carried out a
suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish activists in the town of Suruc on
Turkey's Syrian border . That attack was said to be linked to Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (Isil), but the group never claimed they had organised it.

The identification will no doubt lead to further attacks on the Turkish
government as well as the intelligence services because they were aware of the
threat. Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish prime minister, insisted there would be an
investigation into whether there had been intelligence and security failures.

Mr Davutoglu also told Reuters news agency that some of the suspects in had been
in Syria for several months and could be linked to Isil and Kurdish militants.

"We are working on (investigating) two terrorist organisations, Daesh and PKK,
because we have certain evidence regarding the suicide bombers having links with
Daesh, but also some linkages with PKK groups," Mr Davutoglu said, referring to
the extremist group's Arab name.

"Some suspects were in Syria for many months." He claimed that Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK) and leftist Revolutionary People's Liberation Army-Front
(DHKP-C) militants were trained as suicide bombers in northern Iraq and sent to
Turkey.

Saturday's attack has left the country deeply polarised less than three weeks
ahead of the country's second general election in six months.

In June, the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) passed the 10 per cent
threshold to win 83 seats in the country's general assembly taking away many of
the leading Justice and Development Party's (AKP) seats. AKP lost a
parliamentary majority for the first time in its 13-year domination of Turkish
politics.

In the aftermath of July's attack, Turkish police wanted to find Alagoz fearing
that he may also launch an attack like his brother. It is believed he was a
member of an Isil cell from the south-eastern town of Adiyaman.

Dundar's father spoke to Turkey's Radikal newspaper and said he went several
times to the police to bring his son back from Syria. Dundar had gone there in
2013 for a year.

"In 2014, my son came to Adiyaman and lived with me for eight months. I told
police to jail him. They questioned and released him. Eight months later, he
went to Syria," the parent identified as MD said.

"He was married and had a child. We hadn't spoken for eight months. What am I
going to do now?"

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish prime minister, mentioned the list of suspected
would-be suicide bombers but made the bizarre comments that Turkey could not
arrest the potential terrorists until they committed such an attack because
"Turkey was under the state of law".

On social media, Turkish users were sharing a list of potential suicide bombers
before the suspects were identified. The list appeared to have Alagoz and Dundar
on it, but the Telegraph has not been able to confirm the veracity of the list.

On Wednesday, two people who posted tweets suggesting a bomb could explode in
the capital the day before the suicide bombings were detained. It was reported
that the tweets said: "The bomb will explode in Ankara" and "What if (the
Islamic State group) explodes (a bomb) in Ankara?"

A government official told Associated Press that the suspects had ties to the
PKK .

PKK renewed fighting with the Turkish state soon after the Suruc attack during
which pro-Kurdish activists on their way to help rebuild Kobane were killed by
the Isil-linked terrorist. The guerrila group killed two policemen as "revenge"
and Turkey retaliated with attacks on the group in northern Iraq.

The peace rally attacked in the capital was organised to call for an end to the
renewed fighting. More than 30,000 people were killed during the three-decade
long fighting, mainly in Turkey's south-east.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 2:07 PM GMT

Turkey bombers identified: Police 'name brother of July attack terrorist as
Ankara culprit';
Yunus Emre Alagoz and Omer Deniz Dundar have been named as the culprits who
killed 97 people and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


One of the suicide bombers responsible for Turkey's deadliest terror attack has
been named by Turkish police as the missing brother of a terrorist who committed
a similar attack in July, according to Turkish media.

Yunus Emre Alagoz, whose younger brother Abdurrahman killed 33 people in a bomb
massacre in July, was named by Turkish police in Cumhuriyet and Hurriyet
newspapers. The second bomber was named by Turkish police as Omer Deniz Dundar.

The attackers were identified using DNA from the blast which killed 97 people
and injured hundreds more as thousands gathered for a peace rally on Saturday.
The youngest victim was eight years old.

According to Turkish reports, the bombers arrived separately to the rally in
Ankara from Gaziantep, south-central Turkey, and were part of a list of 21
suspected would-be suicide bombers.

His whereabouts had been unknown since July, when his brother carried out a
suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish activists in the town of Suruc on
Turkey's Syrian border . That attack was said to be linked to Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (Isil), but the group never claimed they had organised it.

It is believed that the two men may have returned from Syria to carry out the
attack. The identification will no doubt lead to further attacks on the Turkish
government as well as the intelligence services because they were aware of the
threat.

Saturday's attack has left the country deeply polarised less than three weeks
ahead of the country's second general election in six months.

In June, the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) passed the 10 per cent
threshold to win 83 seats in the country's general assembly taking away many of
the leading Justice and Development Party's (AKP) seats. AKP lost a
parliamentary majority for the first time in its 13-year domination of Turkish
politics.

In the aftermath of July's attack, Turkish police wanted to find Alagoz fearing
that he may also launch an attack like his brother. It is believed he was a
member of an Isil cell from the south-eastern town of Adiyaman.

Dundar's father spoke to Turkey's Radikal newspaper and said he went several
times to the police to bring his son back from Syria. Dundar had gone there in
2013 for a year.

"In 2014, my son came to Adiyaman and lived with me for eight months. I told
police to jail him. They questioned and released him. Eight months later, he
went to Syria," the parent identified as MD said.

"He was married and had a child. We hadn't spoken for eight months. What am I
going to do now?"

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish prime minister, mentioned the list of suspected
would-be suicide bombers but made the bizarre comments that Turkey could not
arrest the potential terrorists until they committed such an attack because
"Turkey was under the state of law".

On social media, Turkish users were sharing a list of potential suicide bombers
before the suspects were identified. The list appeared to have Alagoz and Dundar
on it, but the Telegraph has not been able to confirm the veracity of the list.

On Wednesday, two people who posted tweets suggesting a bomb could explode in
the capital the day before the suicide bombings were detained. It was reported
that the tweets said: "The bomb will explode in Ankara" and "What if (the
Islamic State group) explodes (a bomb) in Ankara?"

A government official told Associated Press that the suspects had ties to the
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) .

PKK renewed fighting with the Turkish state soon after the Suruc attack during
which pro-Kurdish activists on their way to help rebuild Kobane were killed by
the Isil-linked terrorist. The guerrila group killed two policemen as "revenge"
and Turkey retaliated with attacks on the group in northern Iraq.

The peace rally attacked in the capital was organised to call for an end to the
renewed fighting. More than 30,000 people were killed during the three-decade
long fighting, mainly in Turkey's south-east.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 14, 2015 Wednesday 12:28 PM GMT

Turkey bombers identified: Police 'name brother of July attack terrorist as
Ankara culprit';
Yunus Emre Alagoz and Omer Deniz Dundar have been named as the culprits who
killed 97 people and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


One of the suicide bombers responsible for Turkey's deadliest terror attack has
been named by Turkish police as the missing brother of a terrorist who committed
a similar attack in July, according to Turkish media.

Yunus Emre Alagoz, whose younger brother Abdurrahman killed 33 people in a bomb
massacre in July, was named by Turkish police in Cumhuriyet and Hurriyet
newspapers. The second bomber was named by Turkish police as Omer Deniz Dundar.

The attackers were identified using DNA from the blast which killed 97 people
and injured hundreds more as thousands gathered for a peace rally on Saturday.
The youngest victim was eight years old.

According to Turkish reports, the bombers arrived separately to the rally in
Ankara from Gaziantep, south-central Turkey, and were part of a list of 21
suspected suicide bombers.

His whereabouts had been unknown since July, when his brother carried out a
suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish activists in the town of Suruc on
Turkey's Syrian border . That attack was said to be linked to Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant, but the group never claimed they had organised it.

It is believed that the two men may have returned from Syria to carry out the
attack. The identification will no doubt lead to further attacks on the Turkish
government as well as the intelligence services because they were aware of the
threat.

In the aftermath of July's attack, Turkish police wanted to find Alagoz fearing
that he may also launch an attack like his brother.

On Wednesday, two people who posted tweets suggesting a bomb could explode in
the capital the day before the suicide bombings were detained. It was reported
that the tweets said: "The bomb will explode in Ankara" and "What if (the
Islamic State group) explodes (a bomb) in Ankara?"

A government official told Associated Press that the suspects had ties to the
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).

PKK renewed fighting with the Turkish state soon after the Suruc attack during
which pro-Kurdish activists on their way to help rebuild Kobane were killed by
the Isil-linked terrorist. The guerrila group killed two policemen as "revenge"
and Turkey retaliated with attacks on the group in northern Iraq.

The peace rally attacked in the capital was organised to call for an end to the
renewed fighting. More than 30,000 people were killed during the three-decade
long fighting, mainly in Turkey's south-east.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 14, 2015 Wednesday 11:28 AM GMT

Turkey bombers identified: Police 'name brother of July attack terrorist as
Ankara culprit';
Yunus Emre Alagoz and Omer Deniz Dundar have been named as the culprits who
killed 97 people and injured hundreds more

BYLINE: By Raziye Akkoc

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 253 words


One of the suicide bombers responsible for Turkey's deadliest terror attack has
been named by Turkish police as the missing brother of a terrorist who committed
a similar attack in July, according to Turkish media.

Yunus Emre Alagoz, whose younger brother Abdurrahman killed 33 people in a bomb
massacre in July, was named by Turkish police in Cumhuriyet and Hurriyet
newspapers. The second bomber was named by Turkish police as Omer Deniz Dundar.

The bombers were identified using DNA from the blast which killed 97 people and
injured hundreds more as thousands gathered for a peace rally on Saturday. The
youngest victim was eight years old.

According to Turkish reports, the bombers arrived separately to the rally in
Ankara from Gaziantep, south-central Turkey, and were part of a list of 21
individuals police were looking to question.

His whereabouts had been unknown since July, when his brother carried out a
suicide attack that targeted pro-Kurdish activists in the town of Suruc on
Turkey's Syrian border . That attack was said to be linked to Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant, but the group never claimed they had organised it.

It is believed that the two men may have returned from Syria to carry out the
attack. The identification will no doubt lead to further attacks on the Turkish
government as well as the intelligence services because they were aware of the
threat.

In the aftermath of July's attack, Turkish police wanted to find Alagoz fearing
that he may also launch an attack like his brother.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

'Dog attack' terror on cycle path walk

BYLINE: By Hamza Jabir, Press Association Scotland

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


A WOMAN and her dog have been injured in a "frightening" dog attack while
walking on a cycle path. The incident happened around 11.30am on Monday on the
cycle path off Western Road, from Kilmarnock to Knockentiber. A white and black
Staffordshire Bull cross, said to be without a lead, allegedly attacked them.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 8:19 PM GMT

Two new Lockerbie suspects identified: Scottish police 'want to question
Gaddafi's brother-in-law and bombmaker' over the terror attack that killed 270
people in 1988

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD and SAM MATTHEW FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2233 words



     ·    Police want to question two new suspects over 1988 Lockerbie bombing
     ·    Believed to be Libyan nationals Abdullah al-Senussi and Abu Agila
          Mas'ud
     ·    Prosecutors believe they were involved along with Abdelbaset
          al-Megrahi
     ·    Convicted Al-Megrahi protested his innocence up until his death in
          2012


Scottish Police are believed to want to speak to Colonel Gaddafi's
brother-in-law and bombmaker in connection with the Lockerbie terror attack
which killed 270 people 27 years ago.

Prosecutors in Scotland revealed they have two new suspects and are now seeking
permission for police and the FBI to interview the pair as part of the ongoing
investigation into the downing of the Pan Am Flight 103 in 1988.

The identity of the two men has not been confirmed, but they are understood to
be Gaddafi's brother-in-law Abdullah al-Senussi and his technical expert Abu
Agila Mas'ud, who are both in jail in Libya.

Officials are said to believe the two individuals were involved in the terror
attack along with Abdelbaset al-Megrahi - the only person to have been convicted
of the atrocity.

Scroll down for video

A US documentary claimed that Megrahi was greeted by Mas'ud and Senussi when he
touched back down in Libya after being released from jail by the Scottish
Government in 2009 on compassionate grounds.

Megrahi believed he had just three months to live when his release from prison
was granted after being diagnosed with prostate cancer, but went on to live for
a further three years. He died in 2012 protesting his innocence.

Amin Khalifa Fhimah also stood trial with Megrahi, but was acquitted of any
involvement.

Scotland's Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland QC recently met the U.S. Attorney
General, Loretta Lynch, in Washington, to review progress made in the ongoing
investigation.

As a result, they have now requested permission from the Libyan authorities for
Scottish police and the FBI to interview the two suspects in Tripoli.

A Crown Office spokesman said: 'The Lord Advocate and the US Attorney General
have recently agreed that there is a proper basis in law in Scotland and the
United States to entitle Scottish and US investigators to treat two Libyans as
suspects in the continuing investigation into the bombing of flight Pan Am 103
over Lockerbie.

'The Lord Advocate has today, therefore, issued an International Letter of
Request to the Libyan attorney general in Tripoli which identifies the two
Libyans as suspects in the bombing of flight Pan Am 103.

'The Lord Advocate and the US Attorney General are seeking the assistance of the
Libyan judicial authorities for Scottish police officers and the FBI to
interview the two named suspects in Tripoli.

'The two individuals are suspected of involvement, along with Abdelbaset Ali
Mohmed al-Megrahi, in the bombing of flight Pan Am 103 in December 1988 and the
murder of 270 people.'

The Crown Office has not confirmed the names of the two suspects they are
seeking to interview.

But they are said to be Senussi and Mas'ud.

As Gaddafi's brother-in-law and right-hand man, Senussi has long been suspected
of masterminding the bombing of Pan Am 103.

The former spy chief, known as the black box of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's regime
was among the most feared figures in Libya.

He is also suspected of involvement in the murder of WPC Yvonne Fletcher,
according to ITV News.

Senussi, arrested in March 2012 after fleeing Libya, is also a relative and
ex-boss Megrahi and was the first person Megrahi called when he realised he was
being implicated in the Lockerbie bombing

He was sentenced to death from crimes against the Libyan people along with
Colonel Gaddafi by a Tripoli Court in August.

Barrister Amal Clooney, the glamorous wife of George Clooney, is representing
both Gaddafi and Senussi in an 11th hour bid to save their lives.

Mas'ud was a shadowy figure in Gaddafi's regime, who was known as a technical
expert.

He was named in the 1999 indictment against Megrahi, but never faced charges

He was jailed for 10 years in July for using remote-detonated explosive devices
to booby-trap the cars of Libyan opposition members in 2011, after revolution
broke out.

Ken Dornstein, whose brother David was among the victims, set out to confront
all of those implicated in Britain's worst mass murder who have yet to be
brought to justice

He travelled to Libya with a list of 10 suspects - seven of which he discovered
had died.

The remaining three were Mas'ud, Senussi and Colonel Nasser Afhur.

His documentary ' My Brother's Bomber ', which aired in the US last month,
revealed Megrahi, the only person to be convicted of the Lockerbie bombing, was
greeted by Mas'ud when he was repatriated to Libya in August 2009.

In the driver's seat of the vehicle was Senussi.

Mr Dornstein attempted to meet Mas'ud, 64, but the plan was dropped as it was
deemed too risky.

Today the families of the British victims of the Lockerbie bombing said they
were pleased by the development.

'If there is material that shows other people were involved then we want to
know,' their spokesman Dr Jim Swire told ITV News.

'We want to know who murdered our families. But the big but for us is we're not
satisfied the one man who was found guilty, was in fact guilty. Therefore we
don't know if the Libyan regime was involved in this or not. And we've always
said that.'

Rosemary Wolfe's stepdaughter Miriam was just 20 when she was killed in the
attack.

She told ITV News: 'They've [the two suspects] probably been around for years
and nothing has been done so we think it's high time a real effort was made to
get to the rest of the truth and to get to those involved.'

The ongoing investigation into the bombing remains a joint one between U.S. and
Scottish prosecutors, the Police Service of Scotland and the FBI.

The flight was on its way from London to New York when it exploded above
Lockerbie, in southern Scotland, on the evening of December 21, 1988, killing
everyone on board and 11 people on the ground.

Libyan intelligence officer Megrahi was found guilty of mass murder following a
trial at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands in 2001 and was jailed for life with a
minimum term of 27 years behind bars. He lost his first appeal in 2002.

The following year, he applied to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission
(SCCRC) for a review of his conviction.

A £1.1 million investigation by the body led to a finding in June 2007 of six
grounds where it believed a miscarriage of justice may have occurred.

This decision opened the door to Megrahi's second appeal against his conviction.
Although a number of hearings had already been held before senior appeal judges,
he dropped his appeal two days before being released from prison in August 2009.

Despite having three months to live, he survived for a further three years
before succumbing to his illness in 2012.

Earlier this year, Scottish judges ruled relatives of the victims of the
Lockerbie bombing should not be allowed to pursue an appeal on Megrahi's behalf.

The group of British relatives had argued they had a 'legitimate interest' in
trying to get his case back before a court for a full appeal because they
believed he suffered a miscarriage of justice.

The SCCRC had asked the Appeal Court in Edinburgh for guidance on whether
members of the victims' families could take such a legal move forward.

But judges ruled in July that the law was 'not designed to give relatives of
victims a right to proceed in an appeal for their own or the public interest'.

A review of the evidence used to convict Megrahi of later confirmed beyond doubt
that he was responsible for the killings.

Sources close to the review, carried out by the Crown Office and Police
Scotland, have said there was 'not a shred of evidence' to support suggestions
he was wrongly convicted.

There had been lingering suspicions that he was a scapegoat used to cover up the
involvement of other Middle Eastern countries, a view which some still hold
today.

It has been claimed his imprisonment was a price worth paying by Libya for the
lifting of crippling sanctions, imposed for several years after Megrahi was
identified in Scotland and the U.S. as the likely bomber.

In 2003, Colonel Gaddafi accepted Libya's responsibility over the bombing and
paid compensation to the victims' families However, he has never admitted
personally giving the order for the attack.

Sources close to a previous review claimed that pursuit of the case in Libya
only confirmed the evidence against Megrahi.

Police have claimed that any planting of evidence to frame Megrahi would needed
to have been done within a very short space of time and furthermore.

Megrahi's release from a Scottish jail in 2009 on compassionate grounds, based
on the understanding he had only three months to live, caused outrage in the
U.S., which lost 189 citizens in the terrorist attack.

At the time, U.S. Senator Charles Schumer said: 'The whole deal smelled of a
deal for oil for this man's freedom. I still believe that the Scottish
government, perhaps with the participation of the British government, created a
major injustice when they let him out.'

A year after his death, it was revealed Megrahi's release was linked to a
£400million arms deal with Libya.

Documents showed 'reprehensible' connections between the Labour government
boosting business and freeing the man convicted of Britain's worst terrorist
atrocity.

An email sent by the then UK ambassador in Tripoli to former premier Tony Blair
explained how a prisoner transfer agreement will be signed once Libya 'fulfils
its promise' to buy an air defence system.

Last year, exactly 26 years on from the atrocity, the Lord Advocate led a
delegation of Scottish law officers who attended a memorial at the Arlington
cemetery in Washington.

Mr Mulholland, who addressed the service, said no Crown Office investigator or
prosecutor had raised a concern about the evidence in the case and he vowed to
track down Megrahi's accomplices.

He had previously said the idea that Megrahi had acted alone was 'risible', and
said 'justice has only partly been done'.

Megrahi's part in the bombing has been called into question in a series of books
and documentaries.

Dr Jim Swire, who lost his daughter Flora in the bombing, was one of the
relatives involved in the recent appeal court action.

He told the BBC he had 'tremendous problems' hearing today's news from the Crown
Office.

He said the reason some families had applied for a further appeal was because
'we don't believe that the evidence that led to his (Megrahi) conviction is
correct'.

LOCKERBIE BOMBING: THE PAN AM TERROR ATTACK WHICH KILLED 270

The Lockerbie bombing happened on December 21, 1988, when Pan Am Flight 103 was
blown out of the sky.

The New York-bound Boeing 747, named Maid of the Seas, was passing five miles
above the Scottish town when the explosion tore it apart.

When first reports of a crash came through, many assumed it was a low-flying
military training flight which had come to grief.

Flight 103 came down three minutes after 7pm, about half an hour after take-off
from Heathrow, as it passed over the town heading out to the west.

The flight was running slightly late and should already have been out over the
Atlantic en route to New York.

The cockpit section fell to earth at Tundergarth, about five miles out of town,
landing in a field in rolling countryside within yards of a country church and
graveyard. A fuselage section came down on streets in Rosebank, on the northern
edge of the town.

Meanwhile, the fuel-laden wing section came down on the Sherwood area on the
western edge of Lockerbie, adjoining the A74 road, now a motorway. As it came
down it exploded in a fireball made worse by ruptured gas mains.

It was in this area, Sherwood Crescent, where 11 Lockerbie residents were
killed. No trace was ever found of some of the victims, who were vaporised in
the fireball.

Lockerbie's Town Hall and its ice-rink were pressed into service as temporary
mortuaries and within 24 hours of the disaster, a total of 1,000 police had been
drafted in, along with 500 military helpers.

In the initial stages, 40 ambulances and 115 personnel attended at Lockerbie.
They stood down shortly afterwards due to the minimal number of casualties, with
all those involved in the tragedy either dead or having suffered minor injuries.

The bodies and wreckage had come down in two main flight corridors, one of which
included the Kielder forest in Northumbria, the most densely-wooded part of the
UK.

At the height the plane had been flying, winds were more than 100 knots. Some of
the lighter pieces of wreckage were found miles away.

On the night of the crash, police made an immediate policy decision to treat the
disaster as a criminal investigation.

Public confirmation of what had been suspected from the outset came on December
28, when investigators announced that traces of high explosive had been found
and the plane had been brought down by a bomb.

A later fatal accident inquiry was to determine that the bomb was in a Toshiba
radio-cassette player in a Samsonite suitcase which 'probably' joined the flight
at Frankfurt in Germany.

Of the 259 passengers and crew - 150 men and 109 women - killed, 188 were
Americans and 33 were British. The others came from 19 other countries including
France, Germany, India, Sweden, Australia and Japan.

The 11 people who were killed on the ground - four males and seven females -
were all British.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 7:05 PM GMT

Two new Lockerbie suspects identified: Scottish police 'want to question
Gaddafi's brother-in-law and bombmaker' over the terror attack that killed 270
people in 1988

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1929 words



     ·    Police want to question two new suspects over 1988 Lockerbie bombing
     ·    Believed to be Libyan nationals Abdullah al-Senussi and Abu Agila
          Mas'ud
     ·    Prosecutors believe they were involved along with Abdelbaset
          al-Megrahi
     ·    Convicted Al-Megrahi protested his innocence up until his death in
          2012


Scottish Police are believed to want to speak to Colonel Gaddafi's
brother-in-law and bombmarker in connection with the Lockerbie terror attack
which killed 270 people 27 years ago.

Prosecutors in Scotland revealed they have two new suspects and are now seeking
permission for officers and the FBI to interview the pair as part of the ongoing
investigation into the downing of the Pan Am Flight 103 in 1988.

The identity of the two men has not been confirmed, but they are understood to
be Gaddafi's brother-in-law Abdullah al-Senussi and his technical expert Abu
Agila Mas'ud, who are both in jail in Libya.

Officials are said to believe the two individuals were involved in the terror
attack along with Abdelbaset al-Megrahi - the only person to have been convicted
of the December 21, 1988, atrocity.

Scroll down for video

A US documentary claimed that Megrahi was greeted by Mas'ud and Senussi when he
touched back down in Libya after being released from jail by the Scottish
Government in 2009 on compassionate grounds.

Megrahi believed he had just three months to live when his release from prison
was granted after being diagnosed with prostate cancer, but went on to live for
a further three years. He died in 2012 protesting his innocence.

Amin Khalifa Fhimah also stood trial with Megrahi, but was acquitted of any
involvement.

Scotland's Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland QC recently met the U.S. Attorney
General, Loretta Lynch, in Washington, to review progress made in the ongoing
investigation.

As a result, they have now requested permission from the Libyan authorities for
Scottish police and the FBI to interview the two suspects in Tripoli.

A Crown Office spokesman said: 'The Lord Advocate and the US Attorney General
have recently agreed that there is a proper basis in law in Scotland and the
United States to entitle Scottish and US investigators to treat two Libyans as
suspects in the continuing investigation into the bombing of flight Pan Am 103
over Lockerbie.

'The Lord Advocate has today, therefore, issued an International Letter of
Request to the Libyan attorney general in Tripoli which identifies the two
Libyans as suspects in the bombing of flight Pan Am 103.

'The Lord Advocate and the US Attorney General are seeking the assistance of the
Libyan judicial authorities for Scottish police officers and the FBI to
interview the two named suspects in Tripoli.

'The two individuals are suspected of involvement, along with Abdelbaset Ali
Mohmed al-Megrahi, in the bombing of flight Pan Am 103 in December 1988 and the
murder of 270 people.'

The Crown Office has not confirmed the names of the two suspects they are
seeking to interview.

But they are said to be Senussi and Mas'ud.

As Gaddafi's brother-in-law and right-hand man, Senussi has long been suspected
of masterminding the bombing of Pan Am 103.

The former spy chief, known as the black box of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's regime
was among the most feared figures in Libya.

Senussi was sentenced to death from crimes against the Libyan people along with
Colonel Gaddafi by a Tripoli Court in August.

Barrister Amal Clooney, the glamourous wife of George Clooney, is representing
both Gaddafi and Senussi in an 11th hour bid to save their lives.

Mas'ud was a shadowy figure in Gaddafi's regime, who was known as a technical
expert.

He was jailed for 10 years in July for using remote-detonated explosive devices
to booby-trap the cars of Libyan opposition members in 2011, after revolution
broke out.

The ongoing investigation into the bombing remains a joint one between U.S. and
Scottish prosecutors, the Police Service of Scotland and the FBI.

The flight was on its way from London to New York when it exploded above
Lockerbie, in southern Scotland, on the evening of December 21, 1988, killing
everyone on board and 11 people on the ground.

Libyan intelligence officer Megrahi was found guilty of mass murder following a
trial at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands in 2001 and was jailed for life with a
minimum term of 27 years behind bars. He lost his first appeal in 2002.

The following year, he applied to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission
(SCCRC) for a review of his conviction.

A £1.1 million investigation by the body led to a finding in June 2007 of six
grounds where it believed a miscarriage of justice may have occurred.

This decision opened the door to Megrahi's second appeal against his conviction.
Although a number of hearings had already been held before senior appeal judges,
he dropped his appeal two days before being released from prison in August 2009.

Despite having three months to live, he survived for a further three years
before succumbing to his illness in 2012.

Earlier this year, Scottish judges ruled relatives of the victims of the
Lockerbie bombing should not be allowed to pursue an appeal on Megrahi's behalf.

The group of British relatives had argued they had a 'legitimate interest' in
trying to get his case back before a court for a full appeal because they
believed he suffered a miscarriage of justice.

The SCCRC had asked the Appeal Court in Edinburgh for guidance on whether
members of the victims' families could take such a legal move forward.

But judges ruled in July that the law was 'not designed to give relatives of
victims a right to proceed in an appeal for their own or the public interest'.

A review of the evidence used to convict Megrahi of later confirmed beyond doubt
that he was responsible for the killings.

Sources close to the review, carried out by the Crown Office and Police
Scotland, have said there was 'not a shred of evidence' to support suggestions
he was wrongly convicted.

There had been lingering suspicions that he was a scapegoat used to cover up the
involvement of other Middle Eastern countries, a view which some still hold
today.

It has been claimed his imprisonment was a price worth paying by Libya for the
lifting of crippling sanctions, imposed for several years after Megrahi was
identified in Scotland and the U.S. as the likely bomber.

In 2003, Colonel Gaddafi accepted Libya's responsibility over the bombing and
paid compensation to the victims' families However, he has never admitted
personally giving the order for the attack.

Sources close to a previous review claimed that pursuit of the case in Libya
only confirmed the evidence against Megrahi.

Police have claimed that any planting of evidence to frame Megrahi would needed
to have been done within a very short space of time and furthermore.

Megrahi's release from a Scottish jail in 2009 on compassionate grounds, based
on the understanding he had only three months to live, caused outrage in the
U.S., which lost 189 citizens in the terrorist attack.

At the time, U.S. Senator Charles Schumer said: 'The whole deal smelled of a
deal for oil for this man's freedom. I still believe that the Scottish
government, perhaps with the participation of the British government, created a
major injustice when they let him out.'

A year after his death, it was revealed Megrahi's release was linked to a
£400million arms deal with Libya.

Documents showed 'reprehensible' connections between the Labour government
boosting business and freeing the man convicted of Britain's worst terrorist
atrocity.

An email sent by the then UK ambassador in Tripoli to former premier Tony Blair
explained how a prisoner transfer agreement will be signed once Libya 'fulfils
its promise' to buy an air defence system.

Last year, exactly 26 years on from the atrocity, the Lord Advocate led a
delegation of Scottish law officers who attended a memorial at the Arlington
cemetery in Washington.

Mr Mulholland, who addressed the service, said no Crown Office investigator or
prosecutor had raised a concern about the evidence in the case and he vowed to
track down Megrahi's accomplices.

He had previously said the idea that Megrahi had acted alone was 'risible', and
said 'justice has only partly been done'.

Megrahi's part in the bombing has been called into question in a series of books
and documentaries.

Dr Jim Swire, who lost his daughter Flora in the bombing, was one of the
relatives involved in the recent appeal court action.

He told the BBC he had 'tremendous problems' hearing today's news from the Crown
Office.

He said the reason some families had applied for a further appeal was because
'we don't believe that the evidence that led to his (Megrahi) conviction is
correct'.

LOCKERBIE BOMBING: THE PAN AM TERROR ATTACK WHICH KILLED 270

The Lockerbie bombing happened on December 21, 1988, when Pan Am Flight 103 was
blown out of the sky.

The New York-bound Boeing 747, named Maid of the Seas, was passing five miles
above the Scottish town when the explosion tore it apart.

When first reports of a crash came through, many assumed it was a low-flying
military training flight which had come to grief.

Flight 103 came down three minutes after 7pm, about half an hour after take-off
from Heathrow, as it passed over the town heading out to the west.

The flight was running slightly late and should already have been out over the
Atlantic en route to New York.

The cockpit section fell to earth at Tundergarth, about five miles out of town,
landing in a field in rolling countryside within yards of a country church and
graveyard. A fuselage section came down on streets in Rosebank, on the northern
edge of the town.

Meanwhile, the fuel-laden wing section came down on the Sherwood area on the
western edge of Lockerbie, adjoining the A74 road, now a motorway. As it came
down it exploded in a fireball made worse by ruptured gas mains.

It was in this area, Sherwood Crescent, where 11 Lockerbie residents were
killed. No trace was ever found of some of the victims, who were vaporised in
the fireball.

Lockerbie's Town Hall and its ice-rink were pressed into service as temporary
mortuaries and within 24 hours of the disaster, a total of 1,000 police had been
drafted in, along with 500 military helpers.

In the initial stages, 40 ambulances and 115 personnel attended at Lockerbie.
They stood down shortly afterwards due to the minimal number of casualties, with
all those involved in the tragedy either dead or having suffered minor injuries.

The bodies and wreckage had come down in two main flight corridors, one of which
included the Kielder forest in Northumbria, the most densely-wooded part of the
UK.

At the height the plane had been flying, winds were more than 100 knots. Some of
the lighter pieces of wreckage were found miles away.

On the night of the crash, police made an immediate policy decision to treat the
disaster as a criminal investigation.

Public confirmation of what had been suspected from the outset came on December
28, when investigators announced that traces of high explosive had been found
and the plane had been brought down by a bomb.

A later fatal accident inquiry was to determine that the bomb was in a Toshiba
radio-cassette player in a Samsonite suitcase which 'probably' joined the flight
at Frankfurt in Germany.

Of the 259 passengers and crew - 150 men and 109 women - killed, 188 were
Americans and 33 were British. The others came from 19 other countries including
France, Germany, India, Sweden, Australia and Japan.

The 11 people who were killed on the ground - four males and seven females -
were all British.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 5:58 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack is given
non-custodial sentence for downloading bomb-making details after pleading: 'I'm
not a terrorist'

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1025 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Wrote explosive recipe in art pad  and downloaded images of a dead
          child
     ·    Possessed photos of radical quotes including 'Only Jihad No Democracy'
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Isis killer Jihadi John and a chemical recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced at Manchester Youth Court earlier today.

She was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted terrorist, who was also
her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an Isis-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

A court heard he helped mastermind the 'major terrorist plot' from his bedroom
at his parents' suburban home in Blackburn, Lancashire.

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence today, District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every
parent's worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material
they should not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt. She told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done.

'I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a terrorist.'

'ONLY JIHAD NO DEMOCRACY': THE IMAGES A SCHOOLGIRL DOWNLOADED WHILE IMAGINING
SHE WOULD ONE DAY HACK THE WHITE HOUSE

Police also discovered the girl had downloaded images of guns, knives and
grenades, and photos of jihadi terror 'heroes' including Anwar al-Awlaki, Isis
leader Sheikh Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Osama Bin Laden.

Images of Isis symbols, flags and quotes including 'I love that I should be
killed in the way of Allah' and 'Only Jihad No Democracy' were also found.

Photos of a dead child, an execution and people about to be beheaded were
recovered.

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Isis and
images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in Woolwich in
2013, prosecutors said.

I thought I would one day hack into the White House  Unnamed 16-year-old girl
sentenced on terror charges today

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

She told officers after being detained: 'I thought I would one day hack into the
White House.'

Her lawyer Nasir Hafezi told the court she had been lured into an online
'fantasy world'.

He said: 'She became obsessed with the concept of suicide bombing and martyrdom,
which she saw as a way out.'

The court was also told about a written piece done for school homework by the
girl, railing against 'pointless wars', the alleged hypocrisy of the West and
bombing Isis.

She wrote: 'When John commits a crime, John gets blamed. When Abdullah commits a
crime, Islam gets blamed.'

Her mother was said to be 'horrified' when the material was uncovered by police.

Mr Hafezi said: 'Today's world of young people is filled with so many challenges
and in her desires and wish to make the world a better place she became exposed
to inappropriate messages, radical preachers.

'She accepts she has made mistakes, stupid mistakes and she wants a second
chance.'

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot.

There was also no evidence of any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the
UK or elsewhere, the court heard.

WHAT IS AN INTENSIVE REFERRAL ORDER?

An intensive referral order is a community sentence imposed on youths that
requires them to carry out rehabilitative and restorative programmes.

It is designed to prevent young people from further offending by placing them
under the supervision of the Youth Offending Team for a period of three to 12
months.

Often, the young person will see a psychologist and a councillor during the
rehabilitation.

Referral Orders give the young person a second chance of a non-criminal future,
as the sentence is 'spent' at the end of the order if the person has kept to the
terms of their contract.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria, it was said.

The schoolgirl had claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

An intensive referral order is a community sentence imposed on youths that
requires them to carry out rehabilitative and restorative programmes.

Speaking outside court, the girl's lawyer added: 'This is a troubling case, a
very sad milestone for the Youth Court, sentencing a child for a terrorism
related matter.

'[Children and teenagers] could be vulnerable to being misguided by sinister
people and messages they come across from the unregulated and dark places which
exist in the virtual world of the internet and social media platforms.'

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 4:02 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack is given
non-custodial sentence for downloading bomb-making details after pleading: 'I'm
not a terrorist'

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1011 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Used school's IT system to look up ISIS and images of Michael
          Adebolajo
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Islamic State killer Jihadi John and a chemical
recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced at Manchester Youth Court earlier today.

She was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted Islamic terrorist, who
was also her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an IS-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

A court heard he helped mastermind the 'major terrorist plot' from his bedroom
at his parents' suburban home in Blackburn, Lancashire.

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence today, District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every
parent's worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material
they should not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt. She told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done.

'I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a terrorist.'

'ONLY JIHAD NO DEMOCRACY': THE IMAGES A SCHOOLGIRL DOWNLOADED WHILE IMAGINING
SHE WOULD ONE DAY HACK THE WHITE HOUSE

Police also discovered the girl had downloaded images of guns, knives and
grenades, and photos of jihadi terror 'heroes' including Anwar al-Awlaki, IS
leader Sheikh Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Osama Bin Laden.

Images of IS symbols, flags and quotes including 'I love that I should be killed
in the way of Allah' and 'Only Jihad No Democracy' were also found.

Photos of a dead child, an execution and people about to be beheaded were
recovered.

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Islamic
State and images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich in 2013, prosecutors said.

I thought I would one day hack into the White House  Unnamed 16-year-old girl

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

She told officers after being detained: 'I thought I would one day hack into the
White House.'

Her lawyer Nasir Hafezi told the court she had been lured into an online
'fantasy world'.

He said: 'She became obsessed with the concept of suicide bombing and martyrdom,
which she saw as a way out.'

The court was also told about a written piece done for school homework by the
girl, railing against 'pointless wars', the alleged hypocrisy of the West and
bombing Isis.

She wrote: 'When John commits a crime, John gets blamed. When Abdullah commits a
crime, Islam gets blamed.'

Her mother was said to be 'horrified' when the material was uncovered by police.

Mr Hafezi said: 'Today's world of young people is filled with so many challenges
and in her desires and wish to make the world a better place she became exposed
to inappropriate messages, radical preachers.

'She accepts she has made mistakes, stupid mistakes and she wants a second
chance.'

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot.

There was also no evidence of any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the
UK or elsewhere, the court heard.

WHAT IS AN INTENSIVE REFERRAL ORDER?

An intensive referral order is a community sentence imposed on youths that
requires them to carry out rehabilitative and restorative programmes.

It is designed to prevent young people from further offending by placing them
under the supervision of the Youth Offending Team for a period of three to 12
months.

Often, the young person will see a psychologist and a councillor during the
rehabilitation.

Referral Orders give the young person a second chance of a non-criminal future,
as the sentence is 'spent' at the end of the order if the person has kept to the
terms of their contract.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria, it was said.

The schoolgirl had claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

An intensive referral order is a community sentence imposed on youths that
requires them to carry out rehabilitative and restorative programmes.

Speaking outside court, the girl's lawyer added: 'This is a troubling case, a
very sad milestone for the Youth Court, sentencing a child for a terrorism
related matter.

'[Children and teenagers] could be vulnerable to being misguided by sinister
people and messages they come across from the unregulated and dark places which
exist in the virtual world of the internet and social media platforms.'

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 2:35 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack is given a
12-month referral order for downloading bomb-making details after pleading: 'I'm
not a terrorist'

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 679 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Used school's IT system to look up ISIS and images of Michael
          Adebolajo
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Islamic State killer Jihadi John and a chemical
recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced at Manchester Youth Court earlier today.

She was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted Islamic terrorist, who
was also her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an IS-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

A court heard he helped mastermind the 'major terrorist plot' from his bedroom
at his parents' suburban home in Blackburn, Lancashire.

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence today, District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every
parent's worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material
they should not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt. She told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done.

'I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a terrorist.'

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Islamic
State and images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich in 2013, prosecutors said.

I thought I would one day hack into the White House  Unnamed 16-year-old girl

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

She told officers after being detained: 'I thought I would one day hack into the
White House.'

Her lawyer Nasir Hafezi told the court she had been lured into an online
'fantasy world'.

He said: 'She became obsessed with the concept of suicide bombing and martyrdom,
which she saw as a way out.'

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot.

WHAT IS AN INTENSIVE REFERRAL ORDER?

An intensive referral order is a community sentence imposed on youths that
requires them to carry out rehabilitative and restorative programmes.

It is designed to prevent young people from further offending by placing them
under the supervision of the Youth Offending Team for a period of three to 12
months.

Often, the young person will see a psychologist and a councillor during the
rehabilitation.

There was also no evidence of any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the
UK or elsewhere, the court heard.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria, it was said.

The schoolgirl had claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 2:13 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack is given a
12-month referral order for downloading bomb-making details after pleading: 'I'm
not a terrorist'

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Used school's IT system to look up ISIS and images of Michael
          Adebolajo
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Islamic State killer Jihadi John and a chemical
recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced at Manchester Youth Court earlier today.

She was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted Islamic terrorist, who
was also her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an IS-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

A court heard he helped mastermind the 'major terrorist plot' from his bedroom
at his parents' suburban home in Blackburn, Lancashire.

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence today, District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every
parent's worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material
they should not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt. She told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done.

'I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a terrorist.'

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

I thought I would one day hack into the White House  Unnamed 16-year-old girl

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Islamic
State and images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich in 2013, prosecutors said.

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

She told officers after being detained: 'I thought I would one day hack into the
White House.'

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot or any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the UK or elsewhere, the
court heard.

WHAT IS AN INTENSIVE REFERRAL ORDER?

An intensive referral order is designed to prevent young people from further
offending.

It refers the defendant to a Youth Offending Team and places the young person
under their supervision for a period of three to 12 months.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria, it was said.

The schoolgirl had claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 1:53 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia
is handed referral order for looking up chemical recipes on her school's
computer

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Used school's IT system to look up ISIS and images of Michael
          Adebolajo
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Islamic State killer Jihadi John and a chemical
recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced earlier today at Manchester Youth Court.

She was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted Islamic terrorist, who
was also her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an IS-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

A court heard he helped mastermind the 'major terrorist plot' from his bedroom
at his parents' suburban home in Blackburn, Lancashire

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every parent's
worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material they should
not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt, and told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done.

'I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a terrorist.'

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Islamic
State and images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich in 2013, prosecutors said.

I thought I would one day hack into the White House  Unnamed 16-year-old girl

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

She told officers: 'I thought I would one day hack into the White House.'

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot or any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the UK or elsewhere, the
court heard.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria, it was said.

The schoolgirl had claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2015 Thursday 1:42 PM GMT

Schoolgirl, 16, whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia
is handed referral order for looking up chemical recipes on her school's
computer

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words



     ·    16-year-old girl detained by anti-terror police in April with
          boyfriend, 15
     ·    Used school's IT system to look up ISIS and images of Michael
          Adebolajo
     ·    Pleaded guilty to possessing documents that may be of use to terrorism
     ·    Her boyfriend was sentenced to life earlier this month for terror
          offences


A schoolgirl whose boyfriend plotted an Anzac Day terror attack in Australia has
been handed a 12-month intensive referral order.

The 16-year-old from Manchester, who cannot be named for legal reasons, used
school computers to look up Islamic State killer Jihadi John and a chemical
recipe.

She intended to hack into the White House and became obsessed with suicide
bombings after becoming radicalised online, it was said.

The girl was arrested by anti-terror police in April and pleaded guilty to two
offences of downloading terrorist information at an earlier hearing. She was
sentenced earlier today at Manchester Youth Court.

The young girl was detained along with Britain's youngest convicted Islamic
terrorist, who was also her 14-year-old boyfriend.

The boy from Blackburn, now 15, admitted encouraging an IS-inspired beheading
attack on officers at the annual Anzac parade in Melbourne in July.

He was jailed for life at the Old Bailey on October 2 after pleading guilty to
inciting terrorism abroad. A judge refused to remove reporting restrictions that
banned the media from naming him.

Passing sentence District Judge Khalid Qureshi said: 'It must be every parent's
worst nightmare to discover their child has been accessing material they should
not, of whatever type.'

Wearing a green headscarf, the girl sat in front of the bench at the Youth
Court, flanked by her mother and an aunt, and told the judge: 'I deeply regret
what I have done. I wish to make changes if I get the chance to prove I am not a
terrorist.'

Phone data retrieved by police showed the couple exchanged more than 2,000
WhatsApp messages on the day before they were arrested.

The girl also used her school's IT system to search for information on Islamic
State and images of Michael Adebolajo, the killer of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich in 2013, prosecutors said.

Police found she had downloaded a copy of The Anarchy Cookbook, a 'how to'
manual on bombs and also had a hand written recipe for a viable explosive in a
sketch pad.

No evidence was found that she was aware of or played any part in the Anzac Day
plot or any plan to harm others or incite terrorism in the UK or elsewhere, the
court heard.

The pair did not ever meet but the boy sent a number of photographs of himself
to her and the girl sent a single photograph in return.

The vast majority of the messages showed they were in a relationship and
included many declarations of love and discussions about marriage, children and
their future lives together.

But other conversations were centred around their shared views on the benefits
of travel to Syria.

Meanwhile, the schoolgirl claimed the chemical recipe found by detectives was in
response to a Blue Peter children's TV programme on fireworks.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

Azeri national among suspects in Turkey terror attack

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency APA

16 October: It has been confirmed that Ulkar Mammadova, one of the suspects in
the recent terrorist attack in [Turkey's] Ankara [on 10 October], is an
Azerbaijani national.

Hasan Zeynalov, Azerbaijan's consul-general in Istanbul, told so to APA.

He said that the Turkish law-enforcement agencies responded to an inquiry sent
to them by the consulate regarding this issue: "The answer clarified it all.
Ulkar Mammadova is an Azerbaijani citizen. However, she has lived in Turkey for
a long time. The consulate continues investigating the case."

It should be noted that 100 people were killed and hundreds were injured in the
suicide bombing in Ankara on 10 October. The names of 21 members of ISIS [the
Islamic State group, aka ISIS/ISIL] who are suspected of carrying out the
terrorist attack have been publicized and their photos circulated. Ulkar
Mammadova's name is on this list as well.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 1353 gmt 16 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

"Terrorist mortar attacks" cause material damage in Syrian capital of Damascus

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Two houses sustained damage on Friday [16 October] from two mortar shells fired
by terrorists at Al-Duwayla and Al-Abbasiyin neighbourhoods in Damascus city.

A source at the police command told SANA that terrorists located in Jobar
[Jawbar] area and the Eastern Ghuta farms fired two mortar shells which fell on
houses in the residential neighbourhoods of Al-Duwayla and Al-Abbasiyin, causing
material damage to two houses and three cars, but thankfully no-one was injured
in these attacks.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1820 gmt 16 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 16, 2015 Friday 6:57 AM GMT

Hero who helped stop France train terror released from hospital after stab
attack

BYLINE: Selina Sykes & Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 718 words


THE hero soldier who helped to thwart a terror attack on a train has been
released from hospital after he was stabbed while defending a friend.

GETTY

Hero Spencer Stone has been stabbed while defending a friend

Spencer Stone, 25, had spent a week in hospital after the incident on October 8,
which it was initially thought he would not survive.

Last week footage emerged of the street brawl in Sacramento, California in which
Mr Stone was knifed three times in the torso.

The incident was not linked to Mr Stone heroically tackling a terrorist who
opened fire on a Paris bound train in August

Related articles  'In these times of terror we must do something' French
train...  Hero who tackled France train attacker should have been at uni...

He thanked the first responders and the team at UC Davis Medical Center for
taking "such good care of me".

He added: "Thanks, also, to my amazing family and friends for their love and
support.

"And, thanks to everyone who has sent encouragement during this challenging
time.

"I'm focused now on healing and recovering and look forward to the next part of
my journey."

brightcove.createExperiences;

Officers sealed off a two-block area after the attack and interviewed a man and
a woman - but no arrests have been made.

They interviewed a 24-year-old woman who was also hurt in the fight and was
treated at a hospital for abrasions, spokesman Doug Morse said.

The woman was with Stone and three others when they became involved in a brawl
with another group in Sacramento's nightclub district.

Morse said: "We're really hoping that additional witnesses or anyone involved
comes forward.

"Right now detectives are working around the clock to clarify all that stuff. It
would be way too premature to discuss what witnesses saw."

SKY NEWS

CCTV footage of the attack has emerged

SKY NEWS

Mr Stone's injuries were so severe that it was initially thought he would not
survive

Everybody send prayers out to the stone family today

- alek skarlatos October 8, 2015

Homicide detectives are said to have been called to the scene.

Mr Stone is one of three Americans who was rewarded for his bravery for
preventing a deadly terrorist attack.

Alek Skarlatos, who helped Mr Stone tackle the suspected gunman to the floor,
tweeted: "Everybody send prayers out to the Stone family today".

It emerged that Mr Skarlatos, who attends Umpqua Community College, narrowly
missed a mass shooting on campus where a gunman killed nine people last week.

The 22-year-old should have been in class at the college in Roseburg, Oregon,
but was instead rehearsing for the US television show Dancing with the Stars.

REUTERS

Spencer Stone, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler were hailed as heroes for
thwarting a deadly attack

REUTERS

Mr Stone was one of three Americans to tackle the suspected terrorist

He and two others, Alek Skarlatos and Anthony Sadler, were hailed as heroes by
French President François Hollande and received bravery awards back in the US.

The trio tackled Morocco-born Ayoub El-Khazzani who was carrying a Kalashnikov
rifle, an automatic pistol with ammunition clips and a box cutter knife.

Mr Stone was slashed by the attacker and later required surgery to reattach part
of his hand.

In an interview Mr Stone described how he choked the suspected terrorist
unconscious.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr Stone said: "We ran down and tackled him. I put him in a choke-hold and it
seemed like he was pulling more weapons left and right. He pulled out a handgun,
Alek took that, then a box cutter and he was jabbing it at me.

"We let go and all three of us started punching him while he was in the middle
of us.

Mr Stone added: "I was able to grab him again and choke him unconscious while
Alek was hitting him in the head with a pistol or rifle."

When asked what was going through his mind he simply said: "Survival. And for my
friends and everyone else on the train to make it."

REUTERS

The three Americans along with Briton Chris Norman were awarded for their
bravery Related articles French train gunman linked to ISIS claims he 'FOUND
AK-47 and planned to rob people' Heroic British grandfather who foiled train
terror attack handed France's top honour Father of train gunman suspect Ayoub El
Khazzani claims his son was a 'good boy'

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 16, 2015 Friday 2:03 PM GMT

Are holidaymakers safe in Israel? As terrorist attacks continue travel experts
offer advice on avoiding the violence

BYLINE: GEORGIA DIEBELIUS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 1166 words



     ·    More than 30 Israelis and Palestinians have died in 16-days of
          violence
     ·    Travel expert Bob Atkinson advises to avoid busy areas, buses and
          trams
     ·    Insurance should be regularly checked for validity due to changing
          terms


With the latest wave of violence in Israel spiralling the country into
instability, travel experts and the UK Foreign Office are offering tourists
advice on precautions to take while visiting the country.

The UK Foreign Office has advised against all travel to Gaza, the Sheba'a Farms,
Ghajjar, within 500 metres of the border with Lebanon east of Metula - including
the northern edge of the town and the east of Route 98 along the Syrian border.

It said: 'The security situation in Israel and the OPTs is fast moving, tense
and unpredictable.

Scroll down for video.

'Following a number of violent incidents on public transport and near public
transport lines in Jerusalem, you should avoid using buses and light rail within
Jerusalem.

'There have been numerous stabbing, shooting, arson and stone throwing attacks
on people and vehicles, as well as violent clashes between protesters and
Israeli security forces.

'There's a risk that tourists or bystanders could be caught up in any incident.
You should be vigilant at all times.

'Tensions remain high and you should consider the possibility of further
incidents before undertaking travel to the West Bank including East Jerusalem
and the Old City.

'There have been violent demonstrations in Arab municipalities across Israel and
there's potential for more demonstrations. Take extra care if a demonstration is
taking place nearby and avoid large gatherings.

'Take extra care and be vigilant when using public transport in Tel Aviv, in
particular at transport hubs, and when using buses in the greater Tel Aviv area
- you may wish to consider using other forms of transport.

'Be vigilant when using Route 443 between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. There have
been reports of stones and Molotov cocktails being thrown at cars on this road.

'There is a high threat of terrorism.'

'You should be especially vigilant after Friday prayers and on religious
holidays. Demonstrations and other forms of civil unrest can occur at short
notice and often turn violent. A heavy Israeli security presence is likely.'

Bob Atkinson, travel expert at TravelSupermarket told MailOnline Travel that
people should avoid using public transport if they're heading to Israel and to
check that their trip is covered by insurance.

He said: 'My main advice would be to check SCO travel both before and while
you're away, to ensure you're covered by insurance and to make sure family and
friends know where you are.

'People should avoid anywhere that there is likely to be a gathering, such as
shopping malls, buses and trams and even restaurants at busy times.

'Try and plan visits at the quieter times because if someone is out there to do
bad they're more likely to do it when people are around because they will be
less noticeable and do more damage.

'I would also say that you should be prepared. There is no difference in the
amount you should ready yourself.

'You may feel safer in Tel Aviv because it is deemed less troublesome than
Jerusalem - where villagers have strong beliefs and faiths - however just
because you feel safer you shouldn't be drawn in. Always remain on guard.

'This doesn't mean you can't enjoy a holiday in Israel, it is like travelling
anywhere - you should always be aware.

'I would suggest holding back a while if you were planning to book a last minute
break, but it really is down to how each individual feels.

'I personally always carry my ID, blood type, next of kin details and travel
insurance with me, even if I am going to the beach.

'That makes it is easier to identify a person who is incapacitated and not just
in death, it can help alert family and friends if you're injured.

'As long as you take precautions you can enjoy a holiday in Israel, like I said
before, my main advice is to ensure you're prepared and keep checking SCO travel
advice and the news for updates.'

A 'Day of Rage' saw three people killed and over 20 injured in Jerusalem,
Israel, earlier this week.

The four separate attacks on Israelis saw an IDF (Israel Defense Forces) soldier
shot and both a 13-year-old boy and a 24-year-old man stabbed within a 12-hour
period.

While two Palestinians, a man and a woman, were also shot and killed by police
earlier in the day after they attempted to stab border patrol officers in two
separate incidents.

The city has also experienced violence including rock and fire-bomb throwing,
rioting and arson along the West Bank in the last 16 days.

More than 30 Israelis and Palestinians have died in the violence which follows
several weeks of escalating unrest that is based on an ongoing conflict over the
territory.

WHERE RECENT VIOLENCE IN ISRAEL UNFOLDED

October 8: A soldier shot and killed an Arab attacker after he stabbed four
people with a screwdriver in Tel Aviv. Two Israelis were injured in separate
Palestinian stabbing attacks elsewhere.

October 9: The unrest spread to the Gaza border. Seven Palestinians were killed
in violent protests there with Israeli soldiers.

A Palestinian was shot and killed after attacking police with a knife in the
West Bank.

In apparent revenge attack, an Israeli stabbed Palestinians and two Arab
Bedouins, injuring them in the southern Israel.

October 10: Palestinians carried out two stabbing attacks in Jerusalem before
being shot dead by police.

Two Palestinian youths, ages 13 and 11, were killed near the Gaza border fence
in renewed clashes there.

A Palestinian stabbed and injured two Israelis in Jerusalem.

October 11: Two Palestinians, a 31-year-old and a 2-year-old, were killed in an
air-strike that followed rocket fire from Gaza into Israel.

A Palestinian, 13, was killed in clashes with Israeli forces in the West Bank.

An Israeli Arab stabbed four Israelis in northern Israel.

A Palestinian detonated a gas canister in her car injuring an officer and
herself near Jerusalem.

October 12: Two Palestinian teens stabbed two Israelis, including a teen riding
a bicycle, injuring them seriously. One of the Palestinian attackers was killed
after rushing at officers with a knife.

A Palestinian attacked a soldier on a bus in Jerusalem before being shot and
killed.

October 13: Two Palestinian men boarded a bus in Jerusalem and began shooting
and stabbing passengers, while another assailant rammed a car into a bus station
before stabbing bystanders, in near-simultaneous attacks Tuesday.

Three Israelis and two attackers were killed. Several other Israelis were
injured in the bus attack.

There were also two Palestinian stabbing attacks in the central Israeli city of
Raanana that injured five, including one seriously. Emergency services said
several of the wounded were in serious condition.

A Palestinian was killed in clashes in the West Bank. The Israeli military said
he was shot as he threw a fire-bomb at a vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 16, 2015 Friday 7:17 PM GMT

My fight to bring the Lockerbie bombers to justice;
Ken Dornstein, whose brother David was killed in the Lockerbie bombings, has
spent years investigating the terrorist attack. Now his work has helped name two
new suspects

BYLINE: By Joe Shute

LENGTH: 1178 words


On Thursday morning, as with hundreds of other bereaved family members of the
Lockerbie air disaster, an email appeared in the inbox of Ken Dornstein. It was
sent from the official account of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service
in Scotland and contained the news that two new suspects had been identified
over the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 - an act of mass murder that claimed 270
lives.

"The truth is," Mr Dornstein says, "we have got so many of those messages over
the years that I'm not surprised when I see them anymore. When I read it, I
didn't realise the world would react the way it has. I guess I've been too far
on the inside of the story."

Mr Dornstein's older brother, David - a 25-year-old with a shock of black hair
and ambitions of becoming a writer - was on board the plane when it took off
from London on December 21, 1988, bound for New York. Shortly after 7pm, as the
jumbo jet reached 30,000ft, a bomb detonated and the aircraft splintered. All
259 passengers were killed in the crash, along with 11 residents of the Scottish
Borders village of Lockerbie, crushed by flaming debris. The crater from the
impact reached 20ft deep.

Only one person has ever been convicted, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, who
was jailed in 2001 and released by the Scottish government on compassionate
grounds eight years later after being diagnosed with terminal cancer. Megrahi
walked from prison with supposedly six months to live, but returned to a hero's
reception in Libya, and eventually died in May 2012.

The new suspects, whose identities were confirmed yesterday, are Abdullah
al-Senussi (the spy chief and brother-in-law of the late Colonel Gaddafi) and
Abu Agila Mas'ud, a bomb maker employed by the previous regime. The authorities
only acted after both were named as suspects in a three-part documentary,
presented and paid for by Ken Dornstein, which has just been broadcast in
America as part of the PBS series Frontline.

Until recently, Mas'ud did not even officially exist in the eyes of the Libyan
state, but Dornstein has spent years of work - and the best part of $350,000
(£225,000) - to reveal his alleged role in planting the bomb.

"Obviously, it's gratifying because I believe that at least one of the two
people has only been named because of the work I've done," Dornstein says with
the caution of a man who has met many a hurdle over the course of his
investigation. "I'm also aware this isn't a formal indictment. I'm watching and
waiting to see what happens next."

Ken Dornstein's life work was never meant to be this. At the time of the
bombing, he was studying at Brown University in Rhode Island and dreamed of
becoming a writer on the US show, Saturday Night Live. Instead, he became
obsessed with exposing the truth behind Lockerbie. First, he took a job at a Los
Angeles detective agency, and then began to pursue a career in documentary
film-making. He has worked on numerous other stories, but always came back to
Pan Am Flight 103.

David possesses him not just in mind, but looks as well. Ken retains a
youthfulness that belies his 46 years, and is remarkably alike to his dead
brother. His wife is also a former girlfriend of David's, and the two married in
1997. "The fact that she knew David and the story was a comfort to me because I
didn't have to tell it," Dornstein says. "Even if we didn't talk about it all
the time, I knew that she knew."

In 2006 he published a book, "The Boy Who Fell Out of the Sky", a tribute to
David that draws on his journals and other writings. Then, following the fall of
Gaddafi in 2011, he decided to pour his years of personal research into
producing a documentary exposing those behind the atrocity. Ironically, some of
the money he has invested in the project comes from the fund established for
bereaved families by the former Libyan dictator back in 2003.

The work has proved all-consuming and even taken over a floor of Dornstein's
house. Two upstairs rooms in the home in Somerville, Massachusetts, that he
shares with his wife Kathryn, a psychologist, and two children Sophie, 10, and
Sam, 13, are filled with boxes of evidence. Photographs of those associated with
the former Gaddafi regime are pinned to the walls, as well as a map of the crash
site with pins marking where the bodies fell.

Dornstein has retrieved old CIA cables and interviewed former investigators, as
well as travelling to Libya three times to pore over archives now controlled by
rebel militias. His research has revealed that Mas'ud flew out of Malta with
Megrahi the day the bomb had been planted on Pan Am Flight 103, and had also
been a regular visitor to the island in the run up to the tragedy. A CIA
operative at the airport described them as "involved in some type of technical
intelligence operation".

Mas'ud was one of many associates of the former regime jailed in showtrials and
is currently languishing in a Libyan prison, serving a 10-year sentence for
bomb-making. Yet Dornstein declined the invitation to confront the man he helped
uncover, fearing for the worsening security situation and the impact on his wife
and children.

He admits his documentary has plunged his family into debt, and he has only been
able to recoup "some of the money". It is easy, he says, to imagine "lots of
arguments over the kitchen table" over the past few years as the project has
spiralled in cost and scope. But Dornstein insists his wife has been enormously
supportive.

"She shares some faith with me that these things work out in the end and she
knows - especially after David's death - that life is short and you should spend
the time you've got doing the things that matter to you."

The film is an undeniable journalistic triumph - even without the final twist of
the suspects now being officially named. Yesterday, various British families who
lost loved ones in the atrocity spoke out to welcome the news.

But what of the personal toll? Dornstein's parents, Perry and Judy, who died in
2010 and 2013, never spoke of the tragedy. He, on the other hand, has relived it
every day.

"There were times for me when I didn't want to see this story in the newspapers
or on the television," he says. "I think a lot about the reasons why I've wanted
to pursue something. What I'm proud of is the way I conducted it and that I
persisted through obstacles. I always wanted to see it come to something."

Now, Dornstein says, he is finally ready to start putting the events of December
1988 behind him. "It's tied to so much personal history and I have this strong
desire to move forward in life and not look back. I don't want to keep diving
into this one particular moment in the past."

But when I ask whether or not he will now take down the reams of evidence pinned
to the walls at home, he admits there is still work to do.

"Other family members have designs on those rooms once I'm able to pull down my
wall of suspects. I'm looking forward to the moment when they get used for
something else."

One day the filmmaker will finally move on to another story, and the brother
will be left to grieve in peace.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 16, 2015 Friday 8:10 AM GMT

Russia releases video of strikes on 'terrorist' targets as it begins to reduce
number of airstrikes in Syria;
Russia launches 32 attacks on "terrorist" targets in 24 hours and announces it
is winding down its strike frequency

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and AFP, video source Storyful Pro/Russian Defence
Ministry

LENGTH: 266 words


Russia said Thursday its warplanes had eased back on airstrikes in Syria as
regime forces press a widening ground offensive, while President Vladimir Putin
criticised Washington for not cooperating over the conflict.

As Moscow and Washington neared agreement on measures to avoid confrontation
over Syria, Russia announced that a hotline had been set up with Israel to
ensure there would be no clashes between their air forces.

Russia launched 32 attacks on "terrorist" targets over the past 24 hours, the
defence ministry said Thursday afternoon, compared with some 86 the previous
day.

"The intensity of the sorties... has slightly decreased in the past day,"
because "the front line with the terrorist groups of Isil (Islamic State) is
changing as a result of active offensives by the Syrian armed forces," a
statement said.

In the course of the last 24 hours, the Russian aviation group in #Syria has
continued conducting pinpoint airstrikes...

Posted by Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation on  Thursday, 15 October
2015

The latest strikes targeted Damascus, Idlib, Hama, Deir Ezzor, and Aleppo
provinces.

In a statement, the ministry said the strikes were carried out on "Isil
infrastructural facilities in the Idlib, Hama, Damascus, Aleppo and Deir ez-Zor
provinces."

In Damascus province, the ministry said it struck "terrorist" weapon systems in
Eastern Ghouta, a rebel stronghold at the edge of the capital.

Reports of airstikes in Idlib came from the Local Coordination Committees of
Syria, who said Russian warplanes struck rebel positions in Tahtaya and Sayyad
on October 14.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      October 16, 2015 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

Survivor of 7/7 bombings is subjected to disability hate crime after the
terrorist attack left him in a wheelchair;
Daniel Biddle, a survivor of the 7/7 bombings, has shared his experiences of
hate crime at an event organised by Gwent Police

BYLINE: By Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


Being called "lazy and disrespectful" during a visit to the local tip isn't the
worst thing that's happened to Daniel Biddle.

Ten years ago he lost both legs, an eye and his spleen during the horrific 7/7
London suicide bomb attacks that shocked the world.

He has also been left deaf in one ear.

But when he didn't get out of the car to help his wife off-load their rubbish at
the tip recently, he became the victim of very different kind of attack, from an
abusive woman branding him "lazy".

Related: Hate crime against disabled people up by a third in Wales

According to Daniel, from Abergavenny , such casual abuse is all too common, and
just one example of disability hate crime.

"I was at the local tip disposing of some rubbish with my wife," he said.

"Because of the layout of the tip it was difficult for me to get out of the car
and do anything to help.

"So, my wife got out of the car and started emptying the rubbish on her own.

"As she was doing this, we started receiving abuse from a woman who was calling
me 'lazy' and 'disrespectful to women'.

"It reached the point where my wife got my wheelchair out of the car to show her
that I was disabled.

"However, we continued to receive a tirade of abuse from this woman.

"I honestly think people look at disability in a negative light pretty much 90%
of the time."

Official statistics released by the Home Office earlier this week show
disability hate crime rose by over a third in Wales last year.

The number of hate crimes motivated by disability recorded by the four Welsh
police forces jumped from 150 in 2013-14 to 202 in 2014-15.

Officials say the jump indicates improved recording practices and that victims
have more confidence to report crimes to the police and partner agencies.

Related: Being different does not make me less human' This woman battled a rare
and aggressive cancer then had to deal with hate crime

Daniel was 26 when he stood next to Mohammad Sidique Khan, who blew up the
London tube train on which he was travelling on.

The first of four bombs, which killed 56 people that day, flung Daniel through
the doors and under the train.

He suffered three cardiac arrests as doctors battled to save him and was treated
for a collapsed lung, multiple internal injuries and MRSA.

Read more: 'Everything the bomber tried to destroy made me stronger' Wales' 7/7
survivor still suffers from PTSD but now runs an award-winning company

He also suffers with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

On Friday he will share his personal experiences at a Disability Hate Crime
Awareness Event in Cwmbran.

"Disability hate crime is under-reported and that's why I'm pleased to support
this event," he said.

Around 60 people ranging from professionals from the Crown Prosecution Service;
police officers and police staff; disabled people and representatives from
leading disability organisations are expected to attend the summit, being hosted
by Gwent Police at the Parkway Hotel.

"For me, this event is all about harnessing the relationship between the police
and the disabled community and instilling confidence in people from the disabled
community to report these crimes in the first place," added Daniel.

"It's also about educating the police on how they should be handling these
crimes."

Read more: A decade on, how I still can't forgive bombers who killed my sister

Police and Crime Commissioner for Gwent, Ian Johnston, said: "This event is all
about raising awareness and ensuring disability hate crime remains a priority.

"There has been an increase in recorded disability hate crimes in Gwent and I
believe this is a direct result of victims having the confidence to report these
crimes to the police and partner agencies.

"However, we recognise there is still more work to be done as disability hate
crime still only accounts for 5% of the total reported hate crimes across
England and Wales.

"We know anecdotally that disabled people's experiences would suggest hate
incidents and crimes are part of many individuals' daily experience.

"This event is all about raising awareness and highlighting our unified
commitment to improve our response to disability hate crime."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

Syrian TV says "terrorist" attack in Aleppo kills four soldiers

LENGTH: 90 words


Syrian TV has reported casualties among government forces in Aleppo.

At 0807 gmt on 17 October, the channel carried a screen caption reading:  "News
correspondent in Aleppo: Four martyrs and injuries as result of terrorist
missile attacks against Al-Maydan and Al-Hamdaniyah districts" in Aleppo.

The Syrian army, backed by Russian air strikes and reportedly troops from
Hezbollah and Iran, launched on Friday a fresh offensive in the country's second
city of Aleppo.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0807 gmt 17 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

Jordan condemns "terrorist attack" in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Petra News Agency) -Amman, Oct. 17 (Petra) - Jordan has condemned the cowardly
terrorist attack on a Shi'i gathering in the Saudi city of Saihat that claimed
the lives of a number of innocent people.

State Minister for Media Affairs and the government spokesperson Mohammad Momani
said that such incident proves again that terrorists do not have any objective
but to kill, spread horror and incite sedition.

Momani voiced Jordan's solidairy with Saudi Arabia in facing terrorism. He also
offered condolences to the Saudi government and the families of the victims.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 0938 gmt 17 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

Iran condemns terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 140 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 17 October: Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham on Saturday [17
October] strongly condemned the terrorist attack in east Saudi Arabia which
claimed lives of many innocent civilians gathering together to mourn the
martyrdom anniversary of Imam Hussein (AS), the third Shi'i Imam.

Expressing condolences to the bereaved families of the victims, she said it is
very regrettable that continuation of extremist and inhumane measurers of
terrorists claim lives of dozens of innocent people. It is among duties of the
international community to give priority to cutting off logistics support for
the Takfiri terrorist groups and take due action respectively, she said.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1405 gmt 17 Oct
15

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 17, 2015 Saturday 10:00 AM GMT

WAITING TO KILL: ISIS has 30 fighters in the UK 'plotting lone wolf terror
attacks'

BYLINE: Michael Havis

LENGTH: 714 words


A DIEHARD group of 30 lone wolf jihadis have returned to the UK from ISIS - and
they're out for blood.

BACK IN BRITAIN: Expert opinion says 30 ISIS fighters could be back from Syria
and plotting

More than 300 British-born recruits are believed to be back home from fighting
for Islamic State and are under surveillance.

But while some will have quit the cause, expert opinion says at east one in 10
have returned to wage war on the UK, most probably operating as lone wolves.

Will McCants, author of The ISIS apocalypse: The History, Strategy, and Doomsday
Vision of the Islamic State, told Daily Star Online about the threat.

PA/GETTY

READY TO KILL: A gun rampage is thought to be the likeliest way of ISIS
attacking the UK  Will McCants

He said: "The one study done of foreign fighters says nine out of ten of those
who do return don't engage in any more mischief.

"It's encouraging on the one hand, but that still leaves you 10 per cent to
worry about."

And trying to keep tabs on which of the 300 is ready to strike could leave us
vulnerable elsewhere, he said.

AP

EXPERT ON ISIS: Will McCants, inset, has advised American counter-terrorist
chiefs

"The great fear is that they overwhelm the security services and monitoring all
of them diverts attention away from the other people who present a more
significant threat," he said.

"The guys who carried out the Charlie Hebdo attack had lived in France for quite
some time and had not recently been to Syria.

"But security services weren't paying attention because they were looking at
people who had come back from overseas."

brightcove.createExperiences;

Mr McCants, who has advised American counter-terrorism bosses on extremists,
spoke after a series of lone wolf threats and attacks.

A planned ISIS terror attack on VJ day commemorations has been foiled already
and a British teen is serving five years in jail after plotting to behead police
officers on Anzac Day.

Over the summer, an Islamic State attack in Tunisia saw 38 killed - including 30
Brits - as they holidayed at the tourist resort of Port El Kantaoui.

EPA/REUTERS

KILLER: Seifeddine Rezgui, left, carried out the atrocity in Tunisia

And David Cameron said last month that six attempts to launch terrorist
atrocities in the UK had been thwarted by security services during the past
year.

Now ISIS warlords have published an English-language guide to help jihadis plan
isolated attacks in the UK, including bomb tutorials.

But the most likely mode of attack for Islamic State militants is mass
shootings, Mr McCants said.

EPA

ANGUISHED: A vigil mourns the Charlie Hebdo massacre - another lone wolf attack

He said: "For a number of IS supporters there is a growing fascination with
shooting sprees. It's just much easier to get your hands on a firearm than it is
to build a bomb.

"You can evade detection more easily and we have seen it generates just as much
attention as some elaborate attack with a bomb, and for all these reasons a
number of IS supporters have gravitated towards that."

AFP

BRUTAL: A group of 30 British-born jihadists are believed to have returned to
the UK from Is...

The Royal United Services Institute, a top UK think tank for defence and
security, said ascertaining which returning fighters posed a threat was a
"pressing issue" for the government.

In its report Inherently Unresolved: The Military Operation Against ISIS, RUSI
also urged the government to focus its analysis on lone wolf attacks and, in
particular, the use of the internet to facilitate them.

The Home Office was contacted for comment.

Related articles The ISIS threat laid bare: An Islamic State terror plot is
identified EVERY OTHER WEEK Teen jihadi 'willing to die for ISIS' becomes fifth
Brit militant slapped with travel ban 'Convert or die' ISIS graffiti jihadis
declare first European 'caliphate'

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 17, 2015 Saturday 11:01 PM GMT

ISIS 'has 30 BRITISH terrorists in UK ready to wage lone-wolf jihad after
returning from Syria';
It has been reported that of the 300-plus militants who have returned to the UK,
10 per cent could plot terror attacks

BYLINE: By Paul Harper

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 191 words


Around 30 British-born Islamic State (ISIS) fighters have reportedly returned
home to wage war on the UK.

More than 300 ISIS terrorists are believed to have returned to their homeland,
according to the Daily Star .

And the paper reports that one in 10 of the combatants could plot terror attacks
- as lone wolves.

Will McCants, author of The ISIS apocalypse: The History, Strategy, and Doomsday
Vision of the Islamic State , was quoted as saying: "One study done of foreign
fighters says nine out of ten of those who do return don't engage in any more
mischief.

"That still leaves you 10 per cent to worry about."

"And trying to keep tabs on which of the 300 is ready to strike could leave us
vulnerable elsewhere."

Mr McCants has advised American counter-terrorism bosses on extremists.

He spoke after a series of lone wolf threats and attacks.

Mr McCants said that the Charlie Hebdo attackers had lived in France for some
time after returning from Syria .

A planned ISIS terror attack on VJ Day commemorations was foiled along with a
plot to behead police officers on Anzac Day .

In the summer an ISIS attack in Tunisia killed 38 people - including 30 Brits.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

Iran arrests "suspects for terrorist attack" in southwestern province

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Dezful, Khuzestan Province: Some people have been arrested on suspicions of
having a hand in terrorist shooting at a religious site in Dezful, in
southwestern province of Khuzestan, Dezful Governor Habibollah Asefi said on
Sunday [18 October].

Unknown people attacked a Shi'i religious site in the suburbs of Dezful on
Friday [16 October] night during mourning days of Moharram, when Shi'i Muslims
mark the martyrdom anniversary of Imam Hussain (AS) [third Shi'i imam], the
grandson of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), killing two and wounding two others.

Speaking to IRNA, Asefi refuted the possibility that an ethnic conflict may have
caused the incident, saying it was a terrorist attack. He said that those
arrested are under investigation.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1415 gmt 18 Oct
15

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      October 18, 2015 Sunday 2:35 AM GMT

Top terror commander planning attack on West killed in Syria airstrike

BYLINE: Scott Campbell

LENGTH: 391 words


A TOP al-Qaeda commander who was plotting an attack on the West has been killed
along with two of his henchmen in an airstrike in Syria, according to reports.

HANDOUT

EVIL: Sanafi al-Nasr was killed in an airstrike earlier this week

Sanafi al-Nasr, whose real name is Abdul Mohsen Abdallah Ibrahim Al-Charekh, was
hit near the northern town of Dane.

He was killed with another Saudi and a Moroccan member of the terror group's
local affiliate the Nusra Front.

Reports suggest that he was a member of the Khorasan group, a secretive cell of
al-Qaeda operatives who officials say were sent from Pakistan to Syria to strike
the West.

GETTY FILE PICTURE

HIT: It is not known if the airstrike was launched by Putin's forces or the
US-led coalition

The UN Security Council imposed sanctions on al-Nasr last year and he was 49th
on a list of the 85 most-wanted militants produced by the Saudi Arabian
government.

Jihadi cleric Sirajeddine Zuraiqat said on Twitter: "America is offering its
services to the Safawi project in the region by removing every brain who
confronts this project."

Nusra Front leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani has denied the existence of the
Khorasan group.

GETTY

VICTORY: Meanwhile Russian strikes killed and wounded at least 300 fighters

GETTY

WIPEOUT: Putin launched 36 sorties in the last 24 hours, striking 49 targets

Meanwhile, Russian aircraft have struck another 49 targets in the last 24 hours
killing and wounding at least 300 fighters.

Syria's state news agency SANA added: "Several vehicles and hideouts were
destroyed."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Could this sexy Russian babe
create peace between Putin and the West? Putin 'sending 150,000 soldiers to
Syria to WIPE OUT evil Islamic State' Russia tests ray gun that can BLIND
enemies as it battles Islamic State Boasting Putin mocks the West for not
getting the same 'results' as him against vile ISIS Vladimir Putin takes selfie
with stunning model - then cheekily asks for her address

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 18, 2015 Sunday 8:16 PM GMT

One Israeli soldier is killed and eight people are wounded after terrorists
armed with guns and knives attack a bus terminal in Israel

BYLINE: TOM WYKE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words



     ·    Gunman opened fire at the main bus station in Israeli city of Beer
          Sheva
     ·    Six civilians wounded in the attack before one gunman was shot dead
     ·    Police confirmed the second gunman was moderately wounded


Two suspected Palestinian gunmen opened fire on bystanders at a bus terminal in
Israel, leaving one Israeli soldier dead and eight other people injured.

The gunmen used knives to attack their victims at the terminal in Beer Sheva,
with two people suffering serious wounds before the attackers were stopped by
police.

'One terrorist was shot dead,' police said in a statement. A police spokesman
confirmed a second gunman had taken part in the attack and was moderately
wounded by Israeli forces.

Scroll down for video:

Local media has claimed the two attackers arrived at the terminal, armed with
knives and started attacking civilians One of the gunmen grabbed a rifle from an
Israeli soldier and began to open fire.

The two attackers split up and targeted two different areas inside the terminal
before p

Medical officials said eight people were rushed to hospital, two of them in
serious condition, two moderate, and two lightly wounded. Four of the victims
are thought to be police officers.

The shooting was the latest in a series of attacks by Palestinians targeting
civilians and security forces in Israel and the West Bank in a wave of violence
and unrest raising fears of a full-scale Palestinian uprising.

Including alleged assailants, 42 Palestinians have been killed since an upsurge
in violence began on October 1, while seven Israelis have lost their lives.

Israel's Deputy Defense Minister Eli Ben-Dahan said: 'The international
community has a duty to fight against and stop the phenomenon of sedition and
encouragement of terrorism by the heads of the Palestinian Authority.'

'Unfortunately, the terrorists aren't stopping and we are only witnessing an
escalation from knifing to mass shootings,' said Ben-Dahan.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 18, 2015 Sunday 7:02 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: One Israeli soldier is killed and five people are wounded after
terrorists armed with guns and knives attack a bus terminal in Israel

BYLINE: TOM WYKE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 222 words



     ·    Gunman opened fire at the main bus station in Israeli city of Beer
          Sheva
     ·    Six civilians wounded in the attack before one gunman was shot dead
     ·    Police confirmed the second gunman was moderately wounded


Two suspected Palestinian gunmen opened fire on bystanders at a bus terminal in
Israel, leaving one Israeli soldier dead and five other people injured.

The gunmen also used knives to attack their victims at the terminal in Beer
Sheva, with two people suffering serious wounds before the attackers were
stopped by police.

'One terrorist was shot dead,' police said in a statement. A police spokesman
confirmed a second gunman had taken part in the attack and was moderately
wounded by Israeli forces.

One of the gunmen had a rifle and the other was armed with a pistol, police
said.

Medical officials said six people were rushed to hospital, two of them in
serious condition, two moderate, and two lightly wounded. Four of the victims
are thought to be police officers.

The shooting was the latest in a series of attacks by Palestinians targeting
civilians and security forces in Israel and the West Bank in a wave of violence
and unrest raising fears of a full-scale Palestinian uprising.

Including alleged assailants, 42 Palestinians have been killed since an upsurge
in violence began on October 1, while seven Israelis have lost their lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 18, 2015 Sunday 6:44 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Six people are wounded including two seriously after terrorists
armed with guns and knives attack civilians at a bus terminal in Israel

BYLINE: TOM WYKE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 216 words



     ·    Gunman opened fire at the main bus station in Israeli city of Beer
          Sheva
     ·    Six civilians wounded in the attack before one gunman was shot dead
     ·    Police confirmed the second gunman was moderately wounded


Two suspected Palestinian gunmen opened fire on people at a bus station in
Israel, leaving six people wounded.

The gunmen also used knives to attack their victims at the terminal in Beer
Sheva, with two people suffering serious wounds before the attackers were
stopped by police.

'One terrorist was shot dead,' police said in a statement. A police spokesman
confirmed a second gunman had taken part in the attack and was moderately
wounded by Israeli forces.

One of the gunmen had a rifle and the other was armed with a pistol, police
said.

Medical officials said six people were rushed to hospital, two of them in
serious condition, two moderate, and two lightly wounded. Four of the victims
are thought to be police officers.

The shooting was the latest in a series of attacks by Palestinians targeting
civilians and security forces in Israel and the West Bank in a wave of violence
and unrest raising fears of a full-scale Palestinian uprising.

Including alleged assailants, 42 Palestinians have been killed since an upsurge
in violence began on October 1, while seven Israelis have lost their lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2015 Monday

Israel's Hebrew press focuses on terror attacks, French Temple Mount proposal

LENGTH: 611 words


The following is a selection of quotes from the Israeli press on 19 October

Beersheba terrorist attack

The killing on 18 October of an Israeli soldier by a Palestinian gunman at the
Beersheba central bus station may just change how the country's security forces
handle the wave of terror attacks being witnessed. The police and army may be
forced to take stronger action to stem the violence.

"The terrorist attack in Beersheba may 'change the situation' both because it
was 'here', in the heart of Israel, and mainly because of the identity of the
terrorist... Indeed, he did not carry on him documentation, but all the signs
are that what we have here is an Arab. One should guard against collective
stereotyping, but the results of the terrorist attack will be well felt: an
accusing finger and mainly the suspicion which will be directed at every one...
Yesterday's death is the ninth in the current wave of violence; the motivation
is still high on the other side and terrorist attacks like yesterday's only
encourage others to imitate the success and act..." [From commentary by Yoav
Limor in free, pro-Netanyahu Yisrael Hayom]

"The epidemic of the terror of the knives has broken out in East Jerusalem and
it is expanding mainly to the Hebron region... If the terror of the knives has
not yet turned into organized, explosive intifada, we must thank the
professional echelons... These echelons are the ones that balance out ministers
of the Habayit Hayehudi and some of Likud elected representatives... In the book
'Jerusalem' displayed at Jerusalem municipality entrance it is written: 'The
city whose past is engraved in rock and its future in the Book of Generations'.
In a less bombastic, more popular wording it is possible to write: The city
whose present is pinned with knives and its future Nagorno Karabakh." [From
commentary by Amnon Abramovitch in centrist, mass circulation Yediot Aharonot]

"The terrorist shooting attack at Beersheba central [bus] station, like the
terrorist attack in the bus in Jerusalem last week and the shooting at Qalandiya
refugee camp last night, expresses the return of firearms alongside the knives
offensive... The accumulation of additional terrorist attacks or a mass-casualty
terrorist attack, God forbid, will oblige the political echelon in Israel to
speak a different language and the army and police will be asked to take much
tougher actions than seen so far." [From commentary by Amos Harel in
left-of-centre, independent broadsheet Ha'aretz]

French Temple Mount proposal

France has proposed the sending of UN observers to the flashpoint Al-Aqsa Mosque
in Jerusalem to end weeks of violence triggered by Palestinian fears that Israel
intends to change the rules governing the mosque. Israeli government has
rejected the move saying it has no intention of changing the rules though
currently it only allows men aged 45 years and above with Israeli residency to
pray there.

"Will we soon be seeing the distinctive light blue helmets and berets of United
Nations peacekeeping forces on the Temple Mount? If France has its way, the UN
Security Council will accept a French motion and vote in favour of stationing
'independent observers' on the site to 'identify possible violations of the
status quo.' Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu made it clear yesterday that he
rejects the French proposal... The real problem on the Temple Mount is not a
lack of law enforcement capability, it is irresponsible Palestinian incitement.
The French would put their time to better use if they persuaded Palestinian
leaders to stop spreading lies and promoting conflict." [From editorial of
English-language Jerusalem Post]

Source: As given

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      October 19, 2015 Monday 4:01 PM GMT

Eritrean man shot and beaten to death in Israel after being mistaken for
terrorist following fatal bus station attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 556 words


An Eritrean man shot by an Israeli security guard and then attacked by a mob who
mistook him for an assailant in a fatal bus station attack has died.

Israeli news websites posted security camera footage that shows Mulu Habtom
Zerhom, crawling on the floor and a security guard shooting him.

Footage also showed a mob of shouting Israelis crowded around the man. The man
was attacked as an Israeli officer and some bystanders tried to protect him.

Zerhom was in Beersheba to renew his Israeli visa, his employer at a plant
nursery, Sagi Malachi, told Army Radio.

Police are seeking to arrest those Israeli civilians who "aggressively beat" and
kicked the Eritrean man "while he lay on the floor and posed no threat," police
spokeswoman Luba Samri said.

Dr Nitza Neuman-Heiman, deputy general director of Soroka Medical Centre, told
Army Radio that Zerhom arrived at the hospital in "very serious condition" and
died late on Sunday from both gunshot wounds and the injuries sustained during
attacks by bystanders. The hospital said he suffered gunshot wounds to the
abdomen.

The attack, at the central bus station in the southern city of Beersheba, was
among the bloodiest in a month-long wave of violence. A 19-year-old Israeli
soldier was killed and nine people were wounded when an Arab assailant armed
with a gun and knife opened fire.

During a month of violence, nine Israelis and the Eritrean have been killed in a
wave of shootings and stabbings by Palestinian assailants. Forty-one Arabs -
including 20 identified by Israel as attackers - have been killed, with the rest
dying in clashes with Israeli troops.

Read more

Israeli man describes being stabbed by fellow Jew shouting 'you deserve it, Arab
b******s!'

Hundreds of troops spread out across Israel's cities

The attacks, carried out seemingly randomly by attackers with no known
membership to organised militant groups, have unnerved Israel.

About 34,000 Eritrean migrants are in Israel. They say they are fleeing
persecution and conflict and seek refugee status. Israel does not grant them
refugee status, but does not deport them to Eritrea in line with international
law so as not to endanger their lives. Migrants must renew Israeli visas every
month or two, according to migrant activists.

"The death of an asylum seeker at the hands of security guards and an angry mob
is a tragic but foreseeable outgrowth of a climate in which some Israeli
politicians encourage citizens to take the law into their own hands," said Sari
Bashi of Human Rights Watch

Israeli police identified the assailant as 21 year-old Mohannad al-Okbi, an Arab
citizen of Israel, from the Bedouin town of Hura in southern Israel. He was shot
and killed in the attack. Security officers arrested one of al-Okbi's relatives
on suspicion that he assisted the attacker, according to police.

The Israeli security agency Shin Bet said the attacker had no past record of
involvement in militant activity.

Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the beating, telling
members of his Likud Party that Israel is a "law abiding country".

"No one should take the law into their own hands," he said.

Mr Netanyahu offered condolences to the man's family.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 19, 2015 Monday 12:58 PM GMT

Eritrean man shot and beaten to death after being mistaken for 'terrorist' in
Israeli bus station attack;
One Israeli was killedand 10 injured after the assailant opened fire in the bus
station in Beersheba

BYLINE: Alexandra Sims

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 526 words


An innocent bystander has died after beingshot by a security guard and then
beaten bya mob who thought he wasthe accomplice of an attacker who launched a
deadlyattack ona bus station.

One Israeli was killedand 10 injured after the assailant, armed with a gun and a
knife, opened fire ina bus station in Beersheba, Israel.

The Arab attacker was shot and killed in the incident on Sunday evening.

Following the initial gunfire, a security guard shot the Eritrean asylum seeker,
who is believed to have been standing near the scene.

Israeli security personals stand next to blood on the floor, at the Beersheba
central bus station

Israeli police stand by the body of attacker in Beersheba, Israel

Video footage shows him being beaten by an angry crowd who incorrectly believed
he was an accomplice.

He then has a bench thrown at him and is pinnedto the ground with a chair. He
died later from his injuries.

After the incident, a crowd of gathered outside the station and chanting "death
to Arabs", according to reports.

Police in southern Israel said the assailant began shooting and stabbing people
after entering the central bus station.

Yoram Halvey, a police commander, said the attacker also stole a weapon from the
Israeli solider he killed. Five police and five civilianswere wounded in the
attack.

According to the

Jerusalem Post

, the attacker has been named by the Shin Bet intelligence agency as 21-year-old
Arab Israeli citizen Muhand al-Okabi.

He is believed to be from the nearby town of Hura and had no prior record of
security offenses.

Read more

Israelis shoot dead three Palestinians in 'thwarted knife attacks'

Palestinian man 'disguised as journalist' stabs Israeli soldier

Anger after Israeli police 'kick and beat' journalist in video

A 'day of rage': What 24 hours of terror in Israel looked like

The attack is thought to be the most severe amid several weeks of mounting
violence.

Security measures have been further tightened in the country, including blocking
roads and placing checkpoints at the entrances of Palestinian neighbourhoods in
east Jerusalem.

Other measures involve ID checks and requiring some Palestinian residents to
lift their shirts and roll up their trousers as they exit their neighbourhoods
to prove they are not carrying knives​

Israelis carrying a wounded policeman injured during an attack allegedly carried
out by Palestinian man, at the Bus station in Beersheba

On Sunday, Israeli police created a barrier separating the Jewish neighbourhood
of Armon Hanatziv from the adjacent Palestinian neighbourhood of Jabal Mukaber.

Emmanuel Nahshon, a spokesman for Israel's foreign ministry, said the barrier
has "no political meaning" and is "one more aspect of our security measures".

Israeli leaders claim the violence is due to Palestinian incitement, however
Palestinians allege it is the effect of years of Israeli occupation, failed
peace efforts and ldespondency among the country's young people.

Additional reporting by Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 19, 2015 Monday 9:42 AM GMT

Eritrean bystander beaten to death after being mistaken for 'terrorist' in
Israeli bus station attack;
One Israeli was killedand 10 injured after the assailant opened fire in the bus
station in Beersheba

BYLINE: Alexandra Sims

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 476 words


An innocent bystander has died after beingshot by a security guard and then
beaten bya mob who thought he wasthe accomplice of an attacker who launched a
deadlyattack ona bus station.

One Israeli was killedand 10 injured after the assailant, armed with a gun and a
knife, opened fire ina bus station in Beersheba, Israel.

The Arab attacker was shot and killed in the incident on Sunday evening.

Following the initial gunfire, a security guard shot the Eritrean asylum seeker,
who is believed to have been standing near the scene.

Video footage shows him being beaten by an angry crowd who incorrectly believed
he was an accomplice.

He then has a bench thrown at him and is pinnedto the ground with a chair. He
died later from his injuries.

After the incident, a crowd of gathered outside the station and chanting "death
to Arabs", according to reports.

Police in southern Israel said the assailant began shooting and stabbing people
after entering the central bus station.

Yoram Halvey, a police commander, said the attacker also stole a weapon from the
Israeli solider he killed. Five police and five civilianswere wounded in the
attack.

According to the

Jerusalem Post

, the attacker has been named by the Shin Bet intelligence agency as 21-year-old
Arab Israeli citizen Muhand al-Okabi.

He is believed to be from the nearby town of Hura and had no prior record of
security offenses.

Read more

Israelis shoot dead three Palestinians in 'thwarted knife attacks'

Palestinian man 'disguised as journalist' stabs Israeli soldier

Anger after Israeli police 'kick and beat' journalist in video

A 'day of rage': What 24 hours of terror in Israel looked like

The attack is thought to be the most severe amid several weeks of mounting
violence.

Security measures have been further tightened in the country, including blocking
roads and placing checkpoints at the entrances of Palestinian neighbourhoods in
east Jerusalem.

Other measures involve ID checks and requiring some Palestinian residents to
lift their shirts and roll up their trousers as they exit their neighbourhoods
to prove they are not carrying knives.

On Sunday, Israeli police created a barrier separating the Jewish neighbourhood
of Armon Hanatziv from the adjacent Palestinian neighbourhood of Jabal Mukaber.

Emmanuel Nahshon, a spokesman for Israel's foreign ministry, said the barrier
has "no political meaning" and is "one more aspect of our security measures".

Israeli leaders claim the violence is due to Palestinian incitement, however
Palestinians allege it is the effect of years of Israeli occupation, failed
peace efforts and ldespondency among the country's young people.

Additional reporting by Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 19, 2015 Monday 8:39 PM GMT

Ex-BBC journalist found hanged in Turkish airport lost three colleagues in
terror attacks in just one month... including her predecessor whose memorial she
attended days before her death

BYLINE: FLORA DRURY, MARK DUELL, LAURA WELLS IN ISTANBUL, LUCY CROSSLEY and
SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2353 words



     ·    Jacky Sutton, 50, had travelled from London Heathrow to Istanbul
          Airport
     ·    But she is said to have failed to make it onto her next flight to
          Erbil in Iraq
     ·    She appeared distressed after being told to buy new ticket, local
          media say
     ·    Ms Sutton previously spoke about suffering from post-traumatic stress
     ·    United Nations colleague: 'Very difficult to believe she committed
          suicide'
     ·    Her brother, Ian, said he was 'in shock' and questioned the 'very odd
          circumstances' of his sister's death


A former  BBC  journalist found hanged in a toilet cubicle at a Turkish airport
had mourned the deaths of three colleagues in terror attacks in just a month and
attended a memorial to one of them days before her death, it emerged today.

Jacky Sutton, an international development worker, was found dead at Istanbul's
Ataturk Airport after missing a connecting flight to Erbil in Iraq.

She appeared distressed after being told by airline staff that she would have to
buy a new ticket and was later found in the toilets by three Russian passengers,
according to local media.

At the end of April, Ms Sutton posted on her Facebook page the story of Sabeen
Mahmud, a human rights campaigner who was killed by a gunman in Karachi,
Pakistan.

Just weeks later, her predecessor at the Institute for War and Peace Reporting
(IWPR), Ammar Al Shahbander, was killed in an Islamic State bomb blast in
Baghdad on May 2.

On May 12, another friend, this time Paula Kantor, a researcher, was one of 15
people killed when three gunmen opened fire on a group of Westerners at the Park
Palace Hotel, in Kabul.

Ms Sutton posted about the attack before she knew of her friend's involvement,
calling it 'another senseless act of slaughter'.

Poignantly she wrote: 'Hoping everyone staying there gets out OK.'

She later attended a memorial service to Mr Shahbander at St Bride's Church,
Fleet Street, in London just days before she was found dead.

On her Facebook page when he died, Ms Sutton paid tribute to him, writing: 'In
one of the stars you shall be living.

'In one of them you shall be laughing. And so it will be as if all the stars
were laughing, when I look at the sky at night. Goodnight my dear friend, Ammar
Al Shahbander.'

Ms Sutton, 50, had been working in the Iraqi city of Erbil as the Iraq country
director for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting (IWPR).

She was appointed to the role at the end of June following Mr Shahbander's
death.

The 50-year-old held various positions with humanitarian organisations around
the world and the United Nations as well as working as a producer for the BBC,
often in war-torn countries, and once suffered from post-traumatic stress after
being arrested for alleged spying in Africa.

Ms Sutton had also of her anger at the dangerous nature of ISIS, particularly
the manner in which they lure women into becoming jihadi bride.

She suggested that ISIS give vulnerable women 'a sense that they will have some
kind of power relationship with the men on an equal footing; that they will be
honored and respected as mothers, brides, wives and sisters,' she told Rudaw

She warns that the reality of living as a woman under ISIS is completely
different.

'It is a very romantic ideal that ISIS is peddling to these young women, in the
same way that the cigarette manufactures used to peddle the idea of smoking as
being cool. The reality of course is very, very different,' she said.

Paying tribute to Ms Sutton, friend Amanda Whitely, posted a blog today on the
website  Her Canberra  which included an autobiographical account of the former
United Nations worker's life.

In the article, which had been intended to be a video life story for the women's
online magazine, Ms Sutton told how she suffered post-traumatic distress
disorder in 1995 after spending five years in Eritrea which she described as a
'life-changing' experience.

I took Prozac for a month, but it had some seriously weird side effects so I
stopped Jacky Sutton on suffering from PTSD after being arrested for 'spying' in
Africa in 1995

She said: 'I was detained as a spy and deported and many people fled the
country.

'I got (a scholarship) to do a PhD at Leeds University, but my mother had been
diagnosed with breast cancer, and I think I had PTSD from the detention so I was
unable to cope.

'Now there would be counseling, but back then I was given Prozac
(anti-depressants) and told to soldier on. I took Prozac for a month, but it had
some seriously weird side effects so I stopped.'

In a separate e-mail to Mrs Whitely in June, she spoke of her fear that she
would be targeted by the Islamic State.

She wrote: 'I'm in a hotel at the moment - a low key one with hardly any guests.
The accommodation that had been prepared was basically one room and a bathroom
above the office with only one door in and out, and that off the street.

'So if someone came in uninvited I was trapped and, as my Kurdish friends said,
"It just needs one whacko to hear in the Friday prayers that killing foreigners
is jihad, and they'll come knocking at your door in a heartbeat". Erbil has
grown but everyone knows where the foreigners are staying.

'If Daesh (ISIS) wants to attack, they will but it will take planning and I
won't be THE target.

'If the whacko wants to get to heaven he or she will have to contend with armed
guards and a choice of targets, and the same with criminal kidnappers - a growth
industry in Iraq.'

Ms Sutton had arrived in Istanbul on Turkish Airlines flight TK-1986 at about
10pm local time on Saturday night, and was then due to fly to Erbil at about
midnight, but missed her flight, it was reported.

Video footage posted on Turkish news website Haberler reportedly shows her body
being carried out of the airport in a black bag.

Friends and colleagues of a British journalist and international development
worker who died in Istanbul have described her reported suicide as 'impossible
to understand'.

Anthony Borden, executive director of the IWPR, called for an 'open and
transparent' investigation into her death.

Mr Borden said: 'All of her friends and colleagues who knew her better than me
find it impossible to understand. It doesn't accord with what anything anyone
knows about her.

'I'm not going to say I knew what was in her heart and mind but she had a
positive nature and outlook.

'She took her new role as a really solemn commitment following the trauma of
Ammar's death.'

According to reports, Ms Sutton killed herself after missing a connecting flight
to Iraq and admitting she did not have enough money to pay for another ticket.

Mr Borden said: 'I know a flight from Istanbul to Erbil is a couple of hundred
dollars. This is not someone on her first trip away from home.

'She was a seasoned global traveller. If you miss a flight, you go off and have
a drink and relax.'

Mr Borden said Ms Sutton was in 'high spirits' when they had lunch last week and
that Mr Al Shahbander's memorial service had left everyone feeling 'inspired and
re-committed' to the cause.

Ms Sutton's sister is travelling to Istanbul with an IWPR employee to meet with
British and Turkish officials, the organisation confirmed.

Iraqi journalist Mazin Elias, who had worked with her, told MailOnline that it
was 'impossible' that she committed suicide, alleging that 'someone killed
Jacky'.

Mr Elias said she was dedicated to developing freedom of expression in Iraq and
was also trying to better herself by studying for her PhD.

'She continued in Iraq - everything was difficult, everything was a challenge,
but she still continued.

'But, what I'm sure about, the kind of person that Jacky was, it's impossible
she would have killed herself, impossible.

'She's really looking for a better life for everyone. So kill herself? That's
crazy.

'I'm really sad and sorry what happened, but if someone tells me 'she killed
herself', I tell him: 'No, that's wrong, someone killed Jacky'.'

He also thought it extremely unlikely she would have missed her flight.

He added: 'No, that's impossible... we're not talking about a girl. She's a
woman, an official woman, she's a big manager.'

Sudipto Mukerjee, a country director with the United Nations Development
Programme, wrote: 'Very difficult to believe that my colleague @undpiniraq
staffer and seasoned traveler @JackySutton committed suicide.'

Another friend and colleague, Christian Bleuer, also expressed his doubts on
Twitter.

Ge wrote: 'Toughest woman u could meet. Turkish police say she committed suicide
cuz she missed her flight?'

He added: 'I'm not into conspiracies, but if the Turks say a security camera at
Istanbul-Ataturk was 'malfunctioning' then Jacky Sutton was murdered.'

Susan Hutchinson, a colleague at the Australian National University where she
had been studying for a PhD, also said she did not believe it was suicide.

She told the  ABC : 'I am unconvinced that she would have committed suicide... I
am sceptical of the idea. I absolutely think that there needs to be a full
investigation.

'I hope the (British) Foreign Office has full access in order to be able to
conduct a proper investigation about the circumstances in which Jacky died and I
hope that that is done internationally and in a transparent and cooperative
way.'

She said the IWPR had recently 'taken up work countering the anti-women
messaging' of the Islamic State.

Journalist and international development worker Rebecca Cooke also called for an
international investigation.

She said: 'Shocking and sad news about the death of Jacky Sutton in Istanbul. An
international not just local investigation is needed.'

I am unconvinced she would have committed suicide. There needs to be a full
investigation Susan Hutchinson, a colleague at the Australian National
University

Ms Sutton is thought to have been the acting Iraq director for the IWPR, an
organisation that supports journalists and activists in conflict-hit countries.

Ms Sutton was born in Hatfield, Hertfordshire and spent her early years living
in the former grounds of Hatfield House, before her family moved to Maldon,
Essex when she was seven.

She was one of four children, with two sisters and a brother. Her mother died
from breast cancer in 1998, and her maths teacher father died in 2004.

She recently lived in a £145,000 two-bedroom flat in Acton, west London.

According to her LinkedIn profile, Ms Sutton - who studied at Strathclyde and
Warwick universities - also worked for the United Nations and was a producer and
broadcaster for BBC World between 1998 and 2000.

After graduating from Warwick, she spent two years in Canada before retuning to
London to study for a Masters when she became involved in the City of London
Anti-Apartheid Group and worked for the Angolan Embassy.

She then worked for the UN International Fund for Agricultural Development in
Rome, where she also presented news on Vatican Radio.

She was encouraged to travel to Eritrea by a contact she met on the radio
station, and spent five years there from 1993 to 1998, during which time she met
her husband Charles.

They married in 2000 but separated in 2003 and divorced a year later because of
their opposing views over the invasion of Iraq.

She later worked in Afghanistan and Iran, but had to flee to Ghana after she
helped a British friend arrested on suspicion of murder leave Afghanistan.

Sutton then spent several years working for the UNDP in Iraq before moving to
Australia, where she was studying for a PhD before her death.

Lebanon-based Jessica Dheere said she was devastated at the news, which comes
after the death of the IWPR's director Ammar Al Shahbander, who was killed in a
car bomb attack in Baghdad in May.

She tweeted: 'Incredibly distraught about death of 2nd #IWPR #IRAQ director in 6
mths. #RIP Jacky Sutton. U were a force.'

Ms Sutton, who spoke five languages including basic Arabic, had been studying
for a PhD at the Centre for Arab and Islamic Studies at the Australian National
University.

Her research was on international development support to female media
professionals in Iraq and Afghanistan between 2003 and 2013 and had been
carrying out field work in Erbil, Iraq, since July.

He also said that missing her flight would not prompt such an extreme reaction
in such an accomplished woman when asked if it could have led to her suicide.

'No, that's impossible...we're not talking about a girl. She's a woman, an
official woman, she's a big manager.'

A fierce warrior for justice and equality Liz Mulhall, friend

Mr Elias said there was no reason anyone would want to kill her, and the most
confusing part of the tragedy, he said, is that it happened in Turkey.

He added: '[Iraq] is a very dangerous place... there are many problems, and the
security situation is bad, so if something happened against a foreign person...
but in Turkey, it's really, really confusing.'

Liz Mulhall, who works for an Australian charity that raises funds to support
the UN Refugee Agency, tweeted: 'Rest in peace Jacky Sutton.

'A fierce warrior for justice and equality and a true friend.'

Meanwhile, World Food Programme representative Jane Pearce said: 'Mourning my
friend and colleague Jacky Sutton tonight. Simply don't believe the news
reports.'

She was among acquaintances who expressed doubt at reports in Turkey of the
unusual circumstances leading up to Ms Sutton's death.

Professor Amin Saikal, centre director for Arab and Islamic Studies at the
Australian National University, said everyone was 'deeply saddened and shocked
by the tragic death of one of its brilliant PhD students'.

Prof Saikal added: 'She was not only an outstanding research scholar, but a
highly valued friend and colleague who made remarkable contributions to the work
and activities of the centre.'

A Foreign Office spokesman told MailOnline last night: 'We can confirm the death
of a British national in Istanbul. We are providing consular assistance to the
family at this difficult time.'

It comes just five months after the previous IWPR Iraq director Ammar Al
Shahbander was killed in a car bomb attack in Baghdad. A memorial service was
held for him in London last Tuesday.

For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit
a local Samaritans branch or click here

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 19, 2015 Monday 4:52 PM GMT

Ex-BBC journalist found hanged in Turkish airport lost three colleagues in
terror attacks in just one month... including her predecessor whose memorial she
attended days before her death

BYLINE: FLORA DRURY, MARK DUELL, LAURA WELLS IN ISTANBUL, LUCY CROSSLEY and
SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2034 words



     ·    Jacky Sutton, 50, had travelled from London Heathrow to Istanbul
          Airport
     ·    But she is said to have failed to make it onto her next flight to
          Erbil in Iraq
     ·    She appeared distressed after being told to buy new ticket, local
          media say
     ·    Ms Sutton previously spoke about suffering from post-traumatic stress
     ·    United Nations colleague: 'Very difficult to believe she committed
          suicide'


A former  BBC  journalist found hanged in a toilet cubicle at a Turkish airport
had mourned the deaths of three colleagues in terror attacks in just a month and
attended a memorial to one of them days before her death, it emerged today.

Jacky Sutton, an international development worker, was found dead at Istanbul's
Ataturk Airport after missing a connecting flight to Erbil in Iraq.

She appeared distressed after being told by airline staff that she would have to
buy a new ticket and was later found in the toilets by three Russian passengers,
according to local media.

At the end of April, Ms Sutton posted on her Facebook page the story of Sabeen
Mahmud, a human rights campaigner who was killed by a gunman in Karachi,
Pakistan.

Just weeks later, her predecessor at the Institute for War and Peace Reporting
(IWPR), Ammar Al Shahbander, was killed in an Islamic State bomb blast in
Baghdad on May 2.

On May 12, another friend, this time Paula Kantor, a researcher, was one of 15
people killed when three gunmen opened fire on a group of Westerners at the Park
Palace Hotel, in Kabul.

Ms Sutton posted about the attack before she knew of her friend's involvement,
calling it 'another senseless act of slaughter'.

Poignantly she wrote: 'Hoping everyone staying there gets out OK.'

She later attended a memorial service to Mr Shahbander at St Bride's Church,
Fleet Street, in London just days before she was found dead.

On her Facebook page when he died, Ms Sutton paid tribute to him, writing: 'In
one of the stars you shall be living.

'In one of them you shall be laughing. And so it will be as if all the stars
were laughing, when I look at the sky at night. Goodnight my dear friend, Ammar
Al Shahbander.'

Ms Sutton, 50, had been working in the Iraqi city of Erbil as the Iraq country
director for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting (IWPR).

She was appointed to the role at the end of June following Mr Shahbander's
death.

The 50-year-old held various positions with humanitarian organisations around
the world and the United Nations as well as working as a producer for the BBC,
often in war-torn countries, and once suffered from post-traumatic stress after
being arrested for alleged spying in Africa.

Ms Sutton had also spoken in June of her fears that she may be targeted by the
Islamic State while working in Erbil.

Paying tribute to Ms Sutton, friend Amanda Whitely, posted a blog today on the
website  Her Canberra  which included an autobiographical account of the former
United Nations worker's life.

In the article, which had been intended to be a video life story for the women's
online magazine, Ms Sutton told how she suffered post-traumatic distress
disorder in 1995 after spending five years in Eritrea which she described as a
'life-changing' experience.

I took Prozac for a month, but it had some seriously weird side effects so I
stopped Jacky Sutton on suffering from PTSD after being arrested for 'spying' in
Africa in 1995

She said: 'I was detained as a spy and deported and many people fled the
country.

'I got (a scholarship) to do a PhD at Leeds University, but my mother had been
diagnosed with breast cancer, and I think I had PTSD from the detention so I was
unable to cope.

'Now there would be counseling, but back then I was given Prozac
(anti-depressants) and told to soldier on. I took Prozac for a month, but it had
some seriously weird side effects so I stopped.'

In a separate e-mail to Mrs Whitely in June, she spoke of her fear that she
would be targeted by the Islamic State.

She wrote: 'I'm in a hotel at the moment - a low key one with hardly any guests.
The accommodation that had been prepared was basically one room and a bathroom
above the office with only one door in and out, and that off the street.

'So if someone came in uninvited I was trapped and, as my Kurdish friends said,
'It just needs one whacko to hear in the Friday prayers that killing foreigners
is jihad, and they'll come knocking at your door in a heartbeat.' Erbil has
grown but everyone knows where the foreigners are staying.

'If Daesh (ISIS) wants to attack, they will but it will take planning and I
won't be THE target.

'If the whacko wants to get to heaven he or she will have to contend with armed
guards and a choice of targets, and the same with criminal kidnappers - a growth
industry in Iraq.'

Various friends and colleagues had earlier spoken out to dismiss reports that Ms
Sutton had committed suicide and alleged that she had been murdered.

Ms Sutton had arrived in Istanbul on Turkish Airlines flight TK-1986 at about
10pm local time on Saturday night, and was then due to fly to Erbil at about
midnight, but missed her flight, it was reported.

Video footage posted on Turkish news website Haberler reportedly shows her body
being carried out of the airport in a black bag.

Iraqi journalist Mazin Elias, who had worked with her, told MailOnline that it
was 'impossible' that she committed suicide, alleging that 'someone killed
Jacky'.

Mr Elias said she was dedicated to developing freedom of expression in Iraq and
was also trying to better herself by studying for her PhD.

'She continued in Iraq - everything was difficult, everything was a challenge,
but she still continued.

'But, what I'm sure about, the kind of person that Jacky was, it's impossible
she would have killed herself, impossible.

'She's really looking for a better life for everyone. So kill herself? That's
crazy.

'I'm really sad and sorry what happened, but if someone tells me 'she killed
herself', I tell him: 'No, that's wrong, someone killed Jacky'.'

He also thought it extremely unlikely she would have missed her flight.

He added: 'No, that's impossible... we're not talking about a girl. She's a
woman, an official woman, she's a big manager.'

Sudipto Mukerjee, a country director with the United Nations Development
Programme, wrote: 'Very difficult to believe that my colleague @undpiniraq
staffer and seasoned traveler @JackySutton committed suicide.'

Another friend and colleague, Christian Bleuer, also expressed his doubts on
Twitter.

Ge wrote: 'Toughest woman u could meet. Turkish police say she committed suicide
cuz she missed her flight?'

He added: 'I'm not into conspiracies, but if the Turks say a security camera at
Istanbul-Ataturk was 'malfunctioning' then Jacky Sutton was murdered.'

Susan Hutchinson, a colleague at the Australian National University where she
had been studying for a PhD, also said she did not believe it was suicide.

She told the  ABC : 'I am unconvinced that she would have committed suicide... I
am sceptical of the idea. I absolutely think that there needs to be a full
investigation.

'I hope the (British) Foreign Office has full access in order to be able to
conduct a proper investigation about the circumstances in which Jacky died and I
hope that that is done internationally and in a transparent and cooperative
way.'

She said the IWPR had recently 'taken up work countering the anti-women
messaging' of the Islamic State.

Journalist and international development worker Rebecca Cooke also called for an
international investigation.

She said: 'Shocking and sad news about the death of Jacky Sutton in Istanbul. An
international not just local investigation is needed.'

I am unconvinced she would have committed suicide. There needs to be a full
investigation Susan Hutchinson, a colleague at the Australian National
University

Ms Sutton is thought to have been the acting Iraq director for the IWPR, an
organisation that supports journalists and activists in conflict-hit countries.

Ms Sutton was born in Hatfield, Hertfordshire and spent her early years living
in the former grounds of Hatfield House, before her family moved to Maldon,
Essex when she was seven.

She was one of four children, with two sisters and a brother. Her mother died
from breast cancer in 1998, and her maths teacher father died in 2004.

She recently lived in a £145,000 two-bedroom flat in Acton, west London.

According to her LinkedIn profile, Ms Sutton - who studied at Strathclyde and
Warwick universities - also worked for the United Nations and was a producer and
broadcaster for BBC World between 1998 and 2000.

After graduating from Warwick, she spent two years in Canada before retuning to
London to study for a Masters when she became involved in the City of London
Anti-Apartheid Group and worked for the Angolan Embassy.

She then worked for the UN International Fund for Agricultural Development in
Rome, where she also presented news on Vatican Radio.

She was encouraged to travel to Eritrea by a contact she met on the radio
station, and spent five years there from 1993 to 1998, during which time she met
her husband Charles.

They married in 2000 but separated in 2003 and divorced a year later because of
their opposing views over the invasion of Iraq.

She later worked in Afghanistan and Iran, but had to flee to Ghana after she
helped a British friend arrested on suspicion of murder leave Afghanistan.

Sutton then spent several years working for the UNDP in Iraq before moving to
Australia, where she was studying for a PhD before her death.

Lebanon-based Jessica Dheere said she was devastated at the news, which comes
after the death of the IWPR's director Ammar Al Shahbander, who was killed in a
car bomb attack in Baghdad in May.

She tweeted: 'Incredibly distraught about death of 2nd #IWPR #IRAQ director in 6
mths. #RIP Jacky Sutton. U were a force.'

Ms Sutton, who spoke five languages including basic Arabic, had been studying
for a PhD at the Centre for Arab and Islamic Studies at the Australian National
University.

Her research was on international development support to female media
professionals in Iraq and Afghanistan between 2003 and 2013 and had been
carrying out field work in Erbil, Iraq, since July.

He also said that missing her flight would not prompt such an extreme reaction
in such an accomplished woman when asked if it could have led to her suicide.

'No, that's impossible...we're not talking about a girl. She's a woman, an
official woman, she's a big manager.'

A fierce warrior for justice and equality Liz Mulhall, friend

Mr Elias said there was no reason anyone would want to kill her, and the most
confusing part of the tragedy, he said, is that it happened in Turkey.

He added: '[Iraq] is a very dangerous place... there are many problems, and the
security situation is bad, so if something happened against a foreign person...
but in Turkey, it's really, really confusing.'

Liz Mulhall, who works for an Australian charity that raises funds to support
the UN Refugee Agency, tweeted: 'Rest in peace Jacky Sutton.

'A fierce warrior for justice and equality and a true friend.'

Meanwhile, World Food Programme representative Jane Pearce said: 'Mourning my
friend and colleague Jacky Sutton tonight. Simply don't believe the news
reports.'

She was among acquaintances who expressed doubt at reports in Turkey of the
unusual circumstances leading up to Ms Sutton's death.

Professor Amin Saikal, centre director for Arab and Islamic Studies at the
Australian National University, said everyone was 'deeply saddened and shocked
by the tragic death of one of its brilliant PhD students'.

Prof Saikal added: 'She was not only an outstanding research scholar, but a
highly valued friend and colleague who made remarkable contributions to the work
and activities of the centre.'

A Foreign Office spokesman told MailOnline last night: 'We can confirm the death
of a British national in Istanbul. We are providing consular assistance to the
family at this difficult time.'

It comes just five months after the previous IWPR Iraq director Ammar Al
Shahbander was killed in a car bomb attack in Baghdad. A memorial service was
held for him in London last Tuesday.

For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit
a local Samaritans branch or click here

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            October 19, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Torched;
Terror as knife and baseball bat thugs attack man and set his home on fire ;
Terror as baseball bat thugs attack man and set his house on fire

BYLINE: Ron Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 529 words


Detectives are probing a fire-raising attack on a Paisley man whose house was
torched after he was targeted by thugs wielding a knife and a baseball bat.

The 47-year-old victim was left with slash wounds and bruises when two armed
crooks burst into the property at Tannahill Terrace, in the town's Ferguslie
Park, on Thursday evening.

His home was then targeted in a second terrifying attack when thugs attempted to
BURN the property to the ground.

Police in Paisley said the two violent incidents may be linked as they happened
at the same address, and they are appealing for help from the community in
snaring the culprits.

The officer leading the inquiry, Detective Inspector Sandy Nelson, told the
Paisley Daily Express: "A 47-year-old man living at Tannahill Terrace answered a
knock at the door at around 6pm on Thursday, when he was assaulted by two men.
"This was a violent attack which left the victim with serious injuries. The
householder was taken to hospital where he was given TURN TO PAGE 5 FROM PAGE 1
medical treatment. "As we are at an early stage in the inquiry, no descriptions
of the suspects are yet available but police are appealing to anyone who may
have been in the area or may hold information to get in touch."

Police said the incident left the victim with lacerations over his body, as well
as extensive bruising.

The suspects fled on foot leaving the resident suffering from "serious injuries"
caused by a knife and a bat.

The bloodsoaked victim staggered from his house and made his way to a
neighbour's home where he managed to raise the alarm.

He was taken to Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital by ambulance where he
received treatment for his injuries. He was later released from hospital.

However, his four-in-a-block home was targeted in a fire-raising attack one HOUR
later, when a neighbour phoned the fire brigade shortly before 7pm.

Fire appliances from Paisley and Renfrew Fire Stations were scrambled to the
scene at around 7.05pm where firefighters encountered a "well-developed" blaze
sweeping through the property.

Fire crews requested assistance and a third appliance from Johnstone Fire
Station was also despatched to the incident.

A Fire Rescue Service spokesman said: "Fire control received a 999 call at
around 6.50pm on Thursday evening informing us of a fire at a property in
Tannahill Terrace.

"Fire had spread through the ground floor flat in the four-in-a-block property
and the fire was well developed.

"In addition to crews from Paisley and Renfrew, a further appliance from
Johnstone attended the incident.

"Firefighters extinguished the blaze and have been carrying out salvage
operations at the property."

CID in Paisley confirmed they are treating the incident as "wilful fire
raising," and they are appealing for witnesses to come forward. DI Nelson added:
"Forensic officers have been carrying out investigations at the scene and
detectives have been conducting inquiries in the community.

"We are asking for people with information to get in touch."

Anyone with information is urged to ring Paisley Police on their 101
non-emergency contact number.

Or they can call CrimeStoppers on 0800 555 111 where anonymity can be
maintained.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene Police in Tannahill Terrace

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Two Israelis lightly wounded in suspected vehicular "terror attack" in West Bank

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 20 October

[Unattributed report: "Vehicular terror attack in West Bank, two wounded"]

At least two pedestrians were wounded in a suspected vehicular terror attack on
Tuesday [20 October] at the Gush Etzion Junction in the West Bank.

Both victims -one in his 20s and another in his 30s -were lightly hurt in the
incident, according to Magen David Adom.

The suspected perpetrator of the attack was shot and killed.

MDA paramedic Dror Eini described the scene of the attack: "When we arrived on
the scene we saw an approximately 30-year-old pedestrian standing at the
junction who had been hit by the car. He was fully conscious and suffering minor
wounds to his limbs."

Eini said that "in addition, we saw an approximately 20-year-old fully conscious
man, walking, who was also suffering from a light wound to his limbs."

He said that after receiving initial treatment on the scene, the men were
transported to Hadassah University Medical Centre in Jerusalem's Ein Kerem
neighbourhood.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 20 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MY HOLS BEACH RAPE TERROR;
Scots girl says waiter attacked her.. then said sorry on Facebook ; HOLIDAY HELL
BEACH ATTACK CLAIM ; I tried to push him off but he held me down and raped me ;
Tourist wants waiter prosecuted after her ordeal on Turkish break

BYLINE: JENNIFER HYLAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 612 words


A HOLIDAYMAKER has told how she was raped on a beach by a waiter - who then
apologised on Facebook Fern Westland had befriended Sabri Demir during her stay
in Alanya in Turkey last month.

She claims the holiday turned to horror when he dragged her TURN TO PAGE 5
www.co.uk facebook.co m/TheS Monday, october FROM PAGE ONE on to a beach and
subjected her to a sustained sex attack.

Fern, 20, said: "I want him off the streets to make sure he can't target any
other women like me."

Fern said she was left further shaken when Demir messaged her - admitting the
attack and even apologising.

The bakery worker said she is too traumatised to leave her home in Fife.

She said: "We had been at a local restaurant called Brothers and had been
introduced to the owner's brother and his friend, who agreed to show my friends
and I to a club.

i was terrified and not i was "Everything had that i going fern been fine until
Sabri got drunk and started touching me inappropriately.

"I told my friends I wanted to leave the club as I didn't want to be anywhere
near him but he insisted on grabbing a lift home with us."

Fern said her friend had gone into their hotel opposite the beach when she was
attacked.

She said: "Sabri grabbed me from behind and slammed his hand over my mouth.

afraid." was to die westland "I couldn't breathe and was trying to push him off
me but he dragged me along the sand before holding me down and raping me.

"I was trying to scream but he just kept telling me to shut up.

"I was terrified and couldn't breathe, I knew I had to get away from him. I was
afraid I was going to die.

"Then I managed to get him off me and I ran to my friend in the hotel."

Fern claimed that just hours later, Demir began to hound her with messages. She
said he told her: "I'm really sorry. I don't know why I did that."

She said he begged: "Please forgive me."

Traumatised Fern only felt safe enough to talk to police when she returned to
Scotland a week later.

She said: "I went in to complete shock. I was so afraid of having to fly home
alone, I just kept quiet until we returned. Since then, the police have come to
see me several times and have taken a statement.

"They have taken pictures of my bruises on my body and are to contact the
Turkish authorities."

The Record recently revealed the plight of another Scot who claims she was raped
in a resort on her first trip abroad.

Megan - whose identity we are protecting - told how hotel entertainment
organiser Mehmet Adiguzel was arrested by Turkish police in August then
released.

Turkish authorities dropped the case and Megan is having to find £30,000 to fund
a private action.

n Fern added: "I want something done about him. I know it happened in a
different country and I know it may be along process."

Detective Sergeant Calum Lawrie, of Fife's public protection unit, said: "On
Thursday, 8 October, we received a report of the serious sexual assault of a
20-year-old woman that took place in Turkey on Friday, 25 September.

"We are conducting initial inquiries and all the information gathered will be
provided to the Turkish authorities for them to progress the investigation."

When approached by the Record on Facebook, Demir replied: "Sorry, I am so sorry.
I did not do anything. I have not had sex with her."

He then contacted Fern on Facebook, writing: "Sorry. I am so sorry.

"Why are you complaining about me? Why are you complaining to me for sex? You
really did not complain to me."

He went on: "I don't have sex with you."

Fern demanded that Demir admit what he had done.

He responded: "I don't have sex with www.you.No, just kiss you.

"I'm not afraid."

I was terrified and could not breathe. I was afraid that I was going to die Fern
Westland

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL Fern. Right, DemirBRAVE Fern, left, is second Scottish tourist
to make rape claim, rightPOSING Demir works as a waiter in Brothers in Alanya,
TurkeyBIKeR Facebook snap of alleged attacker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 20, 2015 Tuesday 10:51 AM GMT

New defence network protecting Britain from attack by terror drones is planned
by ministers amid fears flying bombs could target planes or nuclear power plants



BYLINE: LARISSA BROWN, DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 912 words



     ·    Penny Mordaunt tells Commons use of unmanned drones by UK's enemies is
          'an emerging threat'
     ·    MoD examining plans to buy technology capable of bringing down drones
     ·    This could include ground missile systems and radio frequency jammers
     ·    Government's Strategic Defence and Security Review to be published
          next month and will determine the future size of the Army, RAF and
          Navy


Defence chiefs are planning to spend millions of pounds on new equipment to
bring down drones operated by terrorists, amid fears of an attack on Britain
from the skies.

Tory MP Penny Mordaunt, a defence minister, told the Commons yesterday that the
use of unmanned drones by the country's enemies had become 'an emerging threat'.

She revealed that the Ministry of Defence was examining plans to purchase
technology to take down the pilotless enemy aircraft as part of an upcoming
Armed Forces review.

'We recognise this as an emerging threat and there is a clear strand of work in
the SDSR that is looking at counter measures to the situation that he
describes,' Miss Mordaunt told the Commons in response to an MP's question about
the issue.

Defence sources said this could include ground missile systems which would shoot
advanced military drones down from the sky, or anti-drone equipment which uses
radio frequency jammers to change the path of smaller drones.

A British company which produces the sophisticated technology is currently in
discussion with several Government departments, including the Ministry of
Defence and the Home Office, it can be revealed.

It has warned there is 'only a matter of time' before a serious incident.

It is set to sell the systems - which can cover 360 degrees and span a range of
4km - to help protect British troops on military parades, world leaders at
conferences such as the G7 summit, and buildings of national importance.

Sir Michael Graydon, former head of the RAF, told the Mail: 'If you want a
bigger bang then you've got to have a bigger weapon... someone could send a
drone to attack the House of Commons.

'They would have to have something fairly substantial and sophisticated to do
it, but that is not to say it couldn't be done.

'It is quite possible drones could be used against our forces, and if terrorists
such as ISIL could get their hands on them.. they would be completely
indiscriminate in their use of them.

'The use of drones is a great concern. Can you imagine a drone destroying an
airliner or flying into a nuclear power station?'

Drones - which can be operated from military bases thousands of miles away, or
at home with a remote control - are becoming increasingly common in Britain and
abroad.

As a result missile defence systems could be purchased and used to shoot down
enemy aircraft, defence sources said.

This could include a system such as the Patriot, an advanced surface-to-air
missile system intended to defend against aircraft, cruise and ballistic
missiles.

The system can detect planes up to 62 miles away and relay information about it
to the control centre. It can track up to 100 targets and send data for up to
nine missiles.

They could also include anti- UAV defence systems which would banned radio
frequency jammers, block signals. Its five-metre-long missiles are supersonic
within moments of leaving the launcher.

They can accelerate to five times the speed of sound.

For smaller drones, Government departments are looking to purchase an anti-UAV
(unmanned aerial vehicle) defence system, developed by three British companies,
including Chess Dynamics, Blighter Surveillance Systems and Enterprise Control
Systems.

The system can detect, track and disrupt small and large drones, by using radio
beams to freeze drones in midair by interfering with their control channels.

It can be rapidly deployed from a small vehicle by security forces at short
notice, establishing a protective shield against the risk of a malicious drone
attack.

Graham Beall, managing director of Chess Dynamics, told the Daily Mail: 'Drones
are becoming increasingly dangerous and one of the big problems is what to do if
they end up in the hands of terrorists.

'The way things are going at the moment, it is only a matter of time before
there's a serious incident. The biggest concern is them being used to carry
toxic chemicals but they could also carry weaponry that could be used as a means
of assassination.

'Some of these drones can carry quite a weight. We've already seen a case where
an automatic pistol was attached to a drone.'

He said these smaller drones would not be aimed at a crowd, but 'at the Prime
Minister or a head of state'.

'The idea if they would be used and adapted for different anti-terrorist
activity and you would have different scenarios you would deal with', he said.

'We can disrupt its controls so it will be unable to continue its mission, or
take control of its GPS. We can play with the system and decided at which point
we want to eliminate it if it reaches critical range or comes within a no fly
zone.'

The systems cost less than a million pounds and two systems used together could
span a range of 8km, he said.

Mr Beall added: 'They could be used to protect critical national infrastructure,
as well as events such as the Olympics, G7 events, military parades or any
government or presidential occasion.'

'We are currently in discussions with many UK government departments.'

The Government's Strategic Defence and Security Review is set to be published in
November and will determine the future size of the Army, RAF and Navy.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 21, 2015 Wednesday 11:33 AM GMT

Labour revolt over Team Corbyn: New spin chief defended Lee Rigby terror attack
while policy chief celebrated 'Tory' Ed Balls losing

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 659 words



     ·    Jeremy Corbyn has appointed Seumas Milne his communications director
     ·    Milne, a Guardian columnist, backed the Iraqi 'resistance' against
          Britain
     ·    He also wrote a scathing article attacking the US two days after 9/11
     ·    Leftwinger said killing of Lee Rigby wasn't 'terrorism in the normal
          sense'
     ·    Corbyn has also appointed a head of policy who welcomed Ed Balls
          losing


Jeremy Corbyn has appointed a senior aide who claimed the killing of Lee Rigby
was not 'terrorism in the normal sense' and praised the 'armed resistance' in
Iraq which slaughtered British troops.

Seumas Milne, a controversial leftwing columnist for the Guardian newspaper, has
been appointed the Labour leader's new director of communications - the role
once filled by Alastair Campbell.

His appointment, confirmed last night, has sparked controversy in the Labour
party and comes after it emerged MPs had directly challenged Mr Corbyn's over
the appointment of other key members of his leadership team.

In a fiery meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party on Monday, MPs demanded to
know why Mr Corbyn had hired a head of policy who welcomed Ed Balls losing his
seat in the general election.

Andrew Fisher, a former union rep, also described the Labour front bench as 'the
most abject collection of complete sh**e' and called on voters not to back the
party's candidate in Croydon South - and instead support the Class War candidate
Jon Bigger

Mr Milne's appointment as Labour spin chief is likely to spark fresh concern
among MPs.

A party spokesman last night confirmed the appointment, adding: 'Seumas joins
the Labour Leader's office on leave from the Guardian where he is a columnist
and associate editor. He will take up his position on 26th October 2015'.

In 2004 Mr Milne, writing in the Guardian, praised the so-called 'resistance
movement' in Iraq and its success at forcing 'occupation troops' out of the
country's main cities.

He said the deaths of British troops 'pale' in comparison to the 'toll inflicted
by the occupiers'.

He said the armed terror groups operating in Iraq were responsible for the
country's 'real war of liberation'.

In a further post Mr Milne claimed soldier Lee Rigby's death wasn't 'terrorism
in the normal sense' because Mr Rigby had been a member of the armed forces.

He wrote: 'Rigby was a British soldier who had taken part in multiple combat
operations in Afghanistan. So the attack wasn't terrorism in the normal sense of
an indiscriminate attack on civilians.'

Mr Milne - a columnist and 'associate editor' for the Guardian - once gave a
byline to terrorist Osama Bin Laden by reproducing text from a taped speech on
the newspaper's website.

Rigby was a British soldier who had taken part in multiple combat operations in
Afghanistan. So the attack wasn't terrorism in the normal sense Seumas Milne

He also controversially claimed Americans 'can't see why they're hated' - just
two days after terrorists destroyed the Twin Towers in New York killing almost
3,000 people.

Mr Milne wrote on September 13 2001, just two days after the 9/11 terror attacks
he said: 'Shock, rage and grief there has been aplenty.

'But any glimmer of recognition of why people might have been driven to carry
out such atrocities, sacrificing their own lives in the process - or why the
United States is hated with such bitterness, not only in Arab and Muslim
countries, but across the developing world - seems almost entirely absent.'

He added: 'If it turns out that Tuesday's attacks were the work of Osama bin
Laden's supporters, the sense that the Americans are once again reaping a
dragons' teeth harvest they themselves sowed will be overwhelming.'

In a video recording from an anti-Israel rally in 2014 he claimed: 'Israel has
no right to defend itself from territory it illegally occupies'.

He added that Palestinians in Gaza have the right to 'defend themselves' and
claimed: 'It isn't terrorism to fight back. The terrorism is the killing of
citizens by Israel on an industrial scale'.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Putin: 20 terror attacks were prevented;
world digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 78 words


RUSSIA: Intelligence agents have foiled 20 terrorist plots and killed 112
militants this year, president Vladimir Putin said yesterday. Islamic insurgency
has been brewing in the north Caucasus, following wars in Chechnya in the 1990s.

In Dagestan, insurgents clash with government officers almost daily. Moscow says
some have links to Islamic State. Mr Putin urged his FSB intelligence agency to
intensify efforts to stop attacks and uncover ties with international groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Uncovering plots: Mr Putin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 21, 2015 Wednesday 7:57 PM GMT

Want winter sun? Greece could keep hotels open after Tunisia terror attacks;
EasyJet in talks with Greek tourists chiefs to extend its holiday season as
travellers avoid Tunisia, Egypt and other formerly popular places in North
Africa

BYLINE: By Dan Hyde Consumer Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


Hotels and restaurants in Greece could stay open into October and November to
cater for British holidaymakers who are struggling to find affordable winter sun
in the wake of terror attacks in Tunisia.

Easyjet, the budget airline, has entered talks with Greek tourists chiefs to
extend the holiday season on the mainland and its islands.

Restaurants, hotels and other parts of the tourist industry which currently open
from May to September would be encouraged to take customers from March until
November.

· 25 best destinations for winter sun

Sophie Dekkers, director of EasyJet in the UK, said demand had built up for
alternative winter sun destinations since an Islamist gunman killed 38 people in
Tunisia in June.

Many of those who would ordinarily have travelled to Egypt, Morocco or even
Turkey were looking for alternatives in the Mediterranean, she said.

Flight prices to Spain and Portugal have risen by 15 per cent and 7 per cent
respectively for half term next week. The rise was put down, in part, to reduced
capacity on Spanish carriers which have undergone restructuring, but it could
also be linked to the shift in holiday patterns, experts said.

· Half-term holiday travel tips

Data prepared for The Telegraph also showed that prices had risen for flights to
the Greek Islands this year - in some cases by more than £25 per person.

There were bed shortages in the Canary Islands in 2014 after airlines moved
their passengers there following the first attacks on tourists in Egypt for
eight years.

We can't fly people there if there aren't hotels or restaurants open - it's kind
of chicken and eggSophie Dekkers, director of EasyJet

EastJet scrapped flights to Monastir, its only Tunisian destination, after the
shootings in the resort town Sousse, which came months after an attack on the
Bardo National Museum killed more than 20. Interest in trips to other countries
in the region is recovering only slowly.

Temperatures in Greece are fairly similar to those in Tunisia in October and
November. For instance, in both Santorini, the Greek island popular for its
cliff-top hotels, and Tunisia the average during October is 21C (69F), with both
falling to 17C (61F) in November.

But Mrs Dekkers explained that the issue holidaymakers faced was much of
Greece's tourist industry shut down as the weather cooled in October, before
reopening in May.

"We can't fly people there if there aren't hotels or restaurants open, but
they're not going to open unless we're bringing people in, so it's kind of
chicken and egg," Mrs Dekkers said.

Research by Skyscanner, the comparison website, shows that prices for flights to
mainland Greece are around the same level as they were last year at just over
£200. But flight prices this October to the island of Crete have increased from
£209.75 last year to £213.53. To Kos, costs have risen from £201.79 to £239.23.

Those heading away in October will, however, benefit from cheaper costs for
meals, drinks and activities due to the improvement in the value of the pound.

· Greece migrant crisis: Should I visit Kos?

In Greece, prices for a typical basket of holiday goods are down 20 per cent in
a year, according to Post Office Travel Money.

Researchers compared the price of holiday goods, including a cup of coffee, a
three-course meal, sun cream and a bottle of water.

The cost barometer showed Crete was almost half as expensive as Egypt and also
cheaper than Mamaris in Turkey.

Last week it emerged that Greece plans to make foreign tourists pay more as
battles to pay down its public debts, with entry fees for landmarks such as the
Acropolis doubling or even quadrupling in price.

dan.hyde@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday

Terrorists attacked murderer at gym in Wakefield jail

LENGTH: 523  words


Three terrorists have been convicted of carrying out a violent attack on an
inmate while serving sentences at Wakefield Prison.

Manfu Asiedu, Jewel Uddin and Shah Rahman were found guilty of carrying out the
attack on a fellow prisoner in the gym area of the maximum security prison on
April 21 last year.

A jury at Leeds Crown Court heard the three men may have attacked convicted
murderer Jeremy Green in retaliation after he is alleged to have said to them:
"Here come the Taliban."

The trial heard the attack took place in a corridor leading from the gym.

The three men began punching and kicking Green and continued to attack him as a
prison officer tried to intervene.

The prisoner suffered a fractured cheek bone and a broken nose.

Green, 27, a former Army lieutenant, was ordered to serve a minimum of 34 years
in prison in April last year for the murder of his ex-girlfriend Nicole
Waterhouse and the attempted murder of her friend Karen Browne.

The attack took place at Miss Waterhouse's home in York in York in October 2013.

During a nine-hour ordeal he tortured, stabbed and smothered them while texting
messages purporting to come from them. Prosecutors said he stabbed both women
multiple times, cutting their throats and smothering them with pillows.

Describing the prison attack, Mr Justice Males said: "It is difficult to make
any positive finding as to the way in which this attack began, but I accept it
is at least possible that there was a degree of provocation by a remark by your
victim which sparked off - the comment "Here come the Taliban."

The judge added: "Even if that is right, there are no excuses for the vicious
attack upon Mr Green."

All three men were found guilty of inflicting grievous bodily harm.

Asiedu is serving a 33-year sentence for his part in helping to plan the failed
suicide attacks on London's transport network on July 21 2005.

Ghanaian-born Asiedu was meant to have exploded his rucksack device but "lost
his nerve at the last moment" and dumped it in woodland.

The attacks were attempted two weeks after four British Islamists from West
Yorkshire killed 52 people in suicide bombings on three underground trains and a
bus in the capital.

Asiedu was given a two-year sentence over the prison attack, to run concurrent
to 33-year sentence.

Uddin is serving a 19-and-a-half year sentence for his role in planning to bomb
an English Defence League rally in Dewsbury in June 2012.

He was among the gang that had taken a bomb, knives and sawn-off shotguns to the
rally. But the plotters arrived two hours after the EDL event had ended. Uddin
and the other gang members were caught by chance after a car being used by two
of them, and carrying weapons, was stopped by police on the M1 after the rally
and found to have no insurance.

Uddin was given a three-year concurrent sentence for the prison violence.

Rahman is serving a 12-year extended sentence for plotting to plant a bomb in
the Stock Exchange in London in 2010.

He was also seen scouting other potential targets including Big Ben, Westminster
Abbey and the London Eye.

Rahman was given a two-year sentence to run concurrent to the terrorism offence.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 22, 2015 Thursday

Kyrgyz police arrest men "planning a series of terror attacks"

LENGTH: 295 words


Bishkek, 22 October: A Kyrgyz citizen, D.N. [the name of a person as published],
who was an active member of a terrorist group, was detained during a
counterterrorism operation in a suburb of Bishkek on 15 October, the State
National Security Committee's press service reported today.

It said that it had been established that as an active member of a banned
international terrorist group, the detainee planned a series of terror attacks
on the law-enforcement agencies' administrative buildings.

Components of a home-made explosive device (ammonium nitrate, hydrogen peroxide,
striking elements in the form of screws and nails), powdered sulphur, detonating
cord, bottles containing acid, mobile telephones modified for use as a detonator
and a switch for [detonating] an explosive device were found during a search in
the house of D.N..

A map of institutions which could have become a target of attack, detailed
instructions for making explosive devices and religious extremist literature
(disks and books) and hand-written appeals urging people to wage jihad against
bodies of secular state power, as well as cold steel and other things, were also
seized.

During an investigation, the detainee confessed to being a member of a terrorist
group and to receiving an order from one of the centres of foreign international
terrorist organizations to carry out terrorist attacks in the Kyrgyz Republic.

An accomplice of the detainee, C.N. [initials of the suspect as published], has
also been arrested.

Each of them have been taken into custody as part of criminal cases. The
necessary investigative and operational measures are being carried out, the
State National Security Committee's press service said.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0954 gmt 22 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 22, 2015 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

(Corr) Kyrgyz police arrest men "planning a series of terror attacks"

LENGTH: 318 words


(Reissued, correcting the processing indicator to text of report)Text of report
by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 22 October: A Kyrgyz citizen, D.N. [the name of a person as published],
who was an active member of a terrorist group, was detained during a
counterterrorism operation in a suburb of Bishkek on 15 October, the State
National Security Committee's press service reported today.

It said that it had been established that as an active member of a banned
international terrorist group, the detainee planned a series of terror attacks
on the law-enforcement agencies' administrative buildings.

Components of a home-made explosive device (ammonium nitrate, hydrogen peroxide,
striking elements in the form of screws and nails), powdered sulphur, detonating
cord, bottles containing acid, mobile telephones modified for use as a detonator
and a switch for [detonating] an explosive device were found during a search in
the house of D.N..

A map of institutions which could have become a target of attack, detailed
instructions for making explosive devices and religious extremist literature
(disks and books) and hand-written appeals urging people to wage jihad against
bodies of secular state power, as well as cold steel and other things, were also
seized.

During an investigation, the detainee confessed to being a member of a terrorist
group and to receiving an order from one of the centres of foreign international
terrorist organizations to carry out terrorist attacks in the Kyrgyz Republic.

An accomplice of the detainee, C.N. [initials of the suspect as published], has
also been arrested.

Each of them have been taken into custody as part of criminal cases. The
necessary investigative and operational measures are being carried out, the
State National Security Committee's press service said.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0954 gmt 22 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2015



CORRECTION: (Reissued, correcting the processing indicator to text of report)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 22, 2015 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

Did Back To The Future predict 9/11 terrorist attacks? Chilling new footage
claims so...;
A haunting new documentary suggests that Michael J Fox's 1985 blockbuster tried
to warn the world

BYLINE: By Nicola Agius

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 207 words


Back To The Future apparently predicted the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

That's according to one fan, who is so convinced by his theory that he has
uploaded a mini documentary on YouTube, which he claims will expose all.

In the 13-minute footage, barelyHuman11 starts by drawing attention to the
terrorist attacks that happened in the original film - which infamously saw Doc
Brown killed by Libyan gunmen .

"During this scene at the Twin Pines Mall, we bare witness to a surprise
terrorist attack perpetrated by group of Muslim terrorists," he says.

"The Twin Pines is a direct reference to the Twin Towers. When we turn the
clocks in this scene upside down, the digits actually read 9-11 or 9/11."

He then points out that at the start of this scene, both pines are present on
the shopping mall logo.

But after the attack has taken place, just a single pine can be seen.

BarelyHuman11 also goes on to suggest that the Twin Towers can actually be seen
collapsing in Back To The Future part II.

He stressed: "This is the most literal depiction ever made showing the Twin
Towers falling down."

Do you think the film buff has a point or is he reading too much into his
favourite movie?

Check out his documentary to hear his argument in full and decide for yourself.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2015 Friday

Kenyan police chief warns of Al-Shabab terror attack

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 23 October

Police have warned of terror attacks during the expected El Nino rains.

"Available information indicates that Al-Shabab  could be mobilizing in Somalia
and may take advantage of the rainy season to infiltrate through our borders and
stage attacks in North Eastern and Coast regions as well as Nairobi," Inspector
General of Police Joseph Boinnet said.

In a statement on Friday, the IG asked the public to cooperate with security
agencies, especially those carrying out searches at social joints, places of
worship, shopping malls and learning institutions among others, as no exceptions
would be made.

"We call upon the public to exercise extra caution at all times and to report
promptly anything that is out of the ordinary to security agencies," Boinnet
said.

He also cautioned those behind the ongoing cattle raids in Meru, which have left
about ten people dead and close to one thousand cows stolen in the past week.

"We are aware that certain individuals could be inciting their communities to
mobilize their youths to stage cattle raids and we are investigating the claims
so anyone found culpable will face the full wrath of the law."

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 23 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 23, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

ULSTER TOP FOR TERROR;
Half of all attacks in EU were here

BYLINE: MICHAEL McHUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 247 words


NORTHERN Ireland was subjected to more than half the terror attacks in Europe in
the past year, it has been revealed.

A Europol report found out of 201 shooting and bombing incidents across the EU,
109 took place here.

Those were the only such incidents recorded in the UK.

And the UK's terrorism reviewer David Anderson QC found dissident republican
bombings show they are "developing" armour-piercing capability.

Explosive mortar bomb-type warheads were used against police patrols in West
Belfast and Derry and in some cases, high-grade and powerful plastic explosives
were used.

Mr Anderson said: "There were 22 dissident republican attacks on national
security targets during 2014, ranging from rudimentary letter bombs to
explosively formed projectiles demonstrating a developing armour-piercing
capability. None caused injuries or fatalities."

Improvised explosives aimed at police and a firebomb attack on a hotel used for
PSNI recruitment were among other dissident actions.

EU law enforcement agency Europol found in the rest of Europe the number of
terrorism incidents is decreasing.

The UK reported an increase in terrorist attacks, from 35 in 2013 to 109
including 73 shooting incidents and 36 bombing incidents, in 2014.

Europol added: "Although none of these attacks were classified in a specific
terrorist affiliation, they all took place in Northern Ireland."

It report found bomb attacks here predominantly incorporated ammonium nitrate
mixtures - or fertiliser.

irish@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            October 23, 2015 Friday

Blackburn business on the frontline in fight against terror attacks in UK

BYLINE: Aban Quaynor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


A BLACKBURN business is on the frontline in the fight against terror attacks in
the UK.

Victvs Ltd, based at Eanam Wharf, is training teachers, childminders and nursery
staff in how to counter violent extremism and prevent radicalisation.

Prevent Duty Awareness Training is now mandatory for a range of organisations
including schools, universities and prisons, and Victvs Ltd delivers its Home
Office-approved courses both online and face-to-face.

MORE TOP STORIES:

Director of training, Andrew Gregory, said the importance of spotting the signs
of children becoming exposed to fundamentalist views early should be treated in
the same light as child sexual exploitation or other forms of child abuse.

His message comes on the back of the recent jailing of a 15-year-old Blackburn
teenager who attempted to orchestrate a terrorist attack in Australia via the
internet.

Mr Gregory, a former teacher, said: "The recent sentencing of a local teenager
for terrorist offences highlights the importance of identifying people who are
at risk of becoming involved in terrorism, and taking positive steps to prevent
this from happening.

"It is now a legal requirement for many professionals to undertake awareness
training as the government tries to encourage a whole-society approach to
preventing terrorism.

"Our training packages teach that individuals from all ethnic or religious
backgrounds can hold extreme views that can lead to violence, and that
radicalisation is not exclusive to one part of society.

"We're really keen to make sure our training is not group specific. If you
mention far-right extremism, people say they never thought of that, but it is a
form of extremism.

"But there have been examples of extremism throughout our history.

"Look at Guy Fawkes; he was a terrorist."

Victvs Ltd was founded by Mr Gregory, former soldier Ben Clayson and Muslim
academic Mohammed Abdel-Haq and its training is accredited by the Plain English
Campaign.

Visit www.victvs.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 23, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Clinton quizzed on terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 39 words


Washington Hillary Clinton was forced on the defensive at a congressional
committee when she was questioned on alleged shortcomings in security at the US
compound in Benghazi, Libya, where four Americans died in a terrorist attack in
2012.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 24, 2015 Saturday

Two terror attacks foiled in Israeli cities - website

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by Israeli settlers' Arutz 7 Radio website on 24
October

[Matt Wanderman: "Stabbing Attacks Foiled in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv"]

Two separate intended terror attacks were prevented today (Saturday), one in
Jerusalem and one in Tel Aviv.

A Jewish man said that he was walking near Nablus Road in Jerusalem, when an
Arab tried to stab him with a knife. The Jewish victim fought back and managed
to knock the knife out of the aggressor's hand, at which point the latter ran
away. The Jewish man took the knife to a nearby police station and reported the
incident.

Also this afternoon, a 17-year-old Arab youth from the village of Yatta, near
Hevron, was arrested in Tel Aviv. Several civilians saw him holding a
screwdriver in a threatening manner and called emergency services. Police
quickly approached the youth and determined that he was a terror risk. He has
since been taken for questioning.

Source: Arutz 7 Radio website in English 1641 gmt 24 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 24, 2015 Saturday 11:34 PM GMT

ISIS bombing horror kills one and injures more than 100 in Muslim procession;
The terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack in the Bangladesh
capital Dhaka

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 105 words


Islamic State say they planted the bombs that ripped through a Shia Muslim
procession in Bangladesh yesterday.

At least one person died and more than a hundred were injured when five homemade
bombs exploded at the traditional parade in the capital Dhaka.

Thousands of worshippers had gathered for the annual Ashura procession,when the
devices were thrown at them at dawn.

Police said the attack on Shiites - a minority in the Sunni-dominated country -
was unprecedented for Bangladesh, which has seen a rise in violence this year
claimed by extremist Islamist groups.

Police have arrested two suspects and recovered two unexploded bombs.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 24, 2015 Saturday 10:55 AM GMT

ISIS terrorists exploiting migrant crisis by 'recruiting refugees from asylum
camps in Europe';
Police fear the desperate refugees are being recruited as the Islamic extremists
plot terror attacks in Europe

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


ISIS extremists have been spotted attempting to recruit refugees from asylum
camps in Europe, police have said.

Supporters of the Islamic terrorist monsters were spotted chatting to Syrians at
an asylum centre in Oslo, Norway.

Authorities have already registered concerns that, given their desperate
situation, refugees may be vulnerable to radicalisation as they flee towards
European cities.

A spokesman for the Norwegian Police Security Service said: "We have seen signs
that extreme Islamists have approached the reception centres and asylum seekers.

"They have been there to get contacts.

"Aside from that, it's difficult to say what their specific purpose is.

"We are of course worried about recruitment into radical circles.

"Of course we are worried about every single person that may be recruited by
extreme Islamists and their cause."

And Hugo Limkjær, the manager of the asylum centre in Oslo, confirmed that ISIS
supporters had been spotted talking to the refugees.

ISIS using Toyotas

He said: "We had an incident here with an Islamist who has been in Norway for
some years.

"His message was that the West had helped to destroy his homeland and they had
to stand together within Islam.

"It was very important that they continued to go to the mosque and followed the
rules, particularly with regard to women."

ISIS is launching bizarre 'condom bombs' to destroy Russian fighter jets

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 24, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

STABBED DAD SAVED BY CURRIES Victim ... John survived attack;
TAKEAWAY TERROR ; Indian fan's fat stops blade piercing lung

BYLINE: GORDON TAIT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 58 words


EXCLUSIVE by GORDON TAIT A DAD stabbed as he walked back from an Indian takeaway
only survived because of his love of curry. Fat on 17-stone John Innes stopped
the blade half an inch short of his lung when he was attacked by thug Robert
Murdoch in Paisley.

John, 23, said: "The curries paid off. If I was skinnier I'd be dead."

Full Story - Page Five

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 25, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Jet terror attack is smashed;
EXCLUSIVE ; PLANE PLOT

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 1,13

LENGTH: 174 words


A PLOT to down a Brit passenger jet was foiled by spy chiefs, Home Secretary
Theresa May Continued on Page 13 Continued from Page One has told The Sun on
Sunday. Hundreds of lives were saved by surveillance experts who spotted the
link between an al-Qaeda warlord overseas and a Bangladeshi contact in Britain.

Security sources learned the suspect aimed to board a plane at a UK airport.

They refuse to say if he planned to blow up the jet or hijack it and crash it.

But an insider said: "There is no doubt his intention was to create a major
atrocity."

The 2010 plot is among an average of four a year averted since the 7/7 attack in
2005.

Last year experts at GCHQ detected a Syriabased terror suspect planning to
return to Europe for a bomb attack. The two plots are among at least 40 which
have, until now, remained secret and explain why Britain is still on high alert.

They were foiled by experts collecting large volumes of data from email and
websites.

In these pages Mrs May sets out her case for giving MI5 and MI6 greater
surveillance powers.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carnage ... bombed London bus in July 2005

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 25, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERROR ATTACK ON BRIT PLANE FOILED

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 218 words


A PLOT to down a Brit passenger jet was foiled by spy chiefs, Theresa May has
told The Sun on Sunday.

The Home Secretary revealed hundreds of lives were saved by surveillance experts
who spotted the link between an al-Qaeda warcreate lord overseas and a
Bangladeshi contact in Britain. Security sources learned the suspect aimed to
board a plane at a UK airport.

They refuse to say if he planned to blow up the jet or hijack it and crash it.

But an insider said: "There is no doubt his intention was to a major atrocity."
Ms May described how GCHQ had been tracking the top al-Qaeda target in 2010 when
they spotted his contact in the UK.

She said: "Analysis of the data gave a way into communications that revealed he
was trying to gain access to an aircraft at a UK airport in order to conduct a
terrorist atrocity."

The plot is among an average of four a year which have been averted since the
7/7 bomb attack in London in 2005 that left 52 victims dead.

Last year experts at GCHQ detected a Syria-based terror suspect planning to
return to Europe for a bomb attack.

The two plots are among at least 40 which have, until now, remained secret and
explain why Britain is still on high alert. They were foiled by experts
collecting data from email and websites.

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk The Sun on Sunday Says - Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atrocity ... 7/7 bombing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2015 Monday

South Iran "terrorists" planned four more armed attacks - agency

LENGTH: 107 words


Iran's Students News Agency (ISNA) has said a "terrorist group", who carried out
an armed assault in the south western province of Khuzestan, was planning to
attack four more targets in the country.

Fars news agency had reported about the gun attack that killed two and left two
injured during a religious mourning ceremony in the Safiabad District of Dezful
on 16 October.

Iran's Intelligence Ministry announced today that all the perpetrators were
arrested.

ISNA cited the intelligence department of Khuzestan as saying that "the incident
was organized and led from out of the country".

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1509 gmt 26 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 26, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brum terrorist's widow vows new military attacks

BYLINE: JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words


THE fugitive wife of killed Birmingham terrorist Junaid Hussain has issued a
chilling warning about new attacks on US military targets.

Former punk rocker Sally Jones, 45, also vowed to sneak back into Britain.

The Muslim convert has remained at large after the death of terror recruiter
Hussain in a US drone attack in August.

She left the UK for Syria in 2013 to fight for ISIS - but was allegedly sighted
in Birmingham just days before her husband was killed, amid reports linking her
to a plot to attack VJ celebrations.

The mother-of-two is believed to have sent this latest Twitter message: "I'm
gonna come back & expose some more of your military America & I'm gonna prove to
you how social media will be your downfall."

The message was signed off with one of the ISIS widow's Islamic pseudonyms: "Umm
Hussain."

The Twitter account, with a profile badge showing a masked figure holding an
American flag, was later taken down.

Earlier this month Jones appeared to leak the name, address and personal
information of the US Airforce pilot who led the mission to kill terror preacher
Anwar Al-Awlaki.

A woman claiming to be Jones used a popular document-sharing website to post the
details. An accompanying picture allegedly showed his wife and young child "on a
nice family day out".

The retired pilot and intelligence operator was said to have been behind the
Predator drone strikes which killed senior al-Qaeda commander Al-Awlaki in Yemen
four years ago. The latest messages warned more names of US soldiers fighting
ISIS would be published.

Hussain, 21, originally from Kings Heath, died during a US bombing campaign
against ISIS.

The Prime Minister later said the terrorist and two other Brits were killed in
"an act of self-defence" after planning attacks in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former punk rocker Sally Jones was married to Birmingham terrorist
Junaid Hussain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                            October 26, 2015 Monday

UN Mission condemns terrorist attack against Benghazi demonstration

LENGTH: 311 words


The United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) today strongly condemned
the terrorist attack which targeted a peaceful demonstration in Benghazi,
killing and injuring many civilians.

"UNSMIL calls on Libyans to reject violence as a means to settle political
differences and stresses that peaceful expression of political views is one of
the basic rights in a free society," said a statement issued by the UN Mission.



The mission also expressed its condolences to the families of the victims and
wishes the injured a speedy recovery.

The statement also said that the stability in the eastern city of Benghazi is
key to Libya's overall stability and the latest attack stresses the urgent need
to bring peace to the country.

"The shelling of the demonstration in Benghazi serves to show once again that
the unending violence is claiming more and more lives, particularly in the city
where fighting has raged for over a year and has caused unimaginable suffering
to its residents, including displacing more than 100,000 people," said the
statement.

The mission also urged Libyans to set aside their differences, irrespective of
their affiliations, and engage in efforts through dialogue to resolve the
deepening crisis in the country.

"Their best response to the perpetrators of this ugly crime in Benghazi today is
by working together to bring peace to Libya. Only through unity can terrorism be
confronted and violence brought to an end," the statement concluded.

Just two days ago, UN Special Representative for Libya Bernardino León stressed
that the effort towards forming a unity government in Libya will continue,
emphasizing that while a position had been announced that some parties had not
voted for the UN-backed political agreement, "there is no chance for small
groups or personalities to hijack this process."



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2015 Tuesday

Jordan condemns terror attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Jordan Times website on 27 October

Jordan on Monday condemned the terrorist attack that occurred in Najran, Saudi
Arabia, where a terrorist blew himself up inside a mosque during dusk (Maghreb)
prayer, killing one and injuring several others.

Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications Mohammad Momani said
terrorism strikes in the most terrible ways, claiming the lives of innocent
people without heeding the sacredness of holy places, the Jordan News Agency,
Petra, reported.

Momani, who is also the government's spokesperson, reaffirmed Jordan's stance in
support of the government and people of Saudi Arabia as they stand up to face
terrorism and extremism that target the country's peace, security and stability.

The minister stressed Jordan's firm and constant stance in rejecting all
violence and terrorism in all its shapes and forms, noting that everyone,
individuals and institutions, should do their part in combating extremism.

Momani voiced his condolences to the Saudis and wished the injured a speedy
recovery.

Source: Jordan Times website, Amman, in English 0512 gmt 27 Oct 15

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      October 27, 2015 Tuesday 8:55 AM GMT

WANTED: 'Beautiful ISIS jihadi with a Mona Lisa smile' planning an imminent
terror attack

BYLINE: David Trayner

LENGTH: 494 words


A FEMME fatale dubbed the "beautiful terrorist with a Mona Lisa smile" is
suspected of plotting an IMMINENT terrorist attack.

GETTY/EPA

SMILE: Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa and terrorist Walentina Slobodjanuk

Police hunting an Islamic State fighter named Walentina Slobodjanuk have warned
her looks could KILL.

The 20-year-old has a cheeky smile like Leonardo da Vinci's famous painting -
but she is believed to have slipped into to Turkey to carry out deadly terror
attacks.

She is believed to be traveling under a fake ID with the name Yildiz Bozkurt.

EPA

FAKE: Slobodjanuk and the fake ID for Yildiz Bozkurt

Slobodjanuk - born in Borat's homeland of Kazakhstan in 1995 - looks sweet and
innocent in the wanted poster.

But Turkish police believe she is part of a terrorist cell ready to wreak havoc
in the holiday hotspot popular with Brits.

Brits were warned to avoid the capital Ankara after suspected suicide bombers
killed 95 in a twin attack earlier this month.

Security services are looking for four suspects who have crossed the border from
Syria.

AFP/GETTY

BLAST: The suspected ISIS attack targeted a peace rally Iraq Syria ISIS
Jihadists most wanted pictures

PH

WHITE WIDOW: Samantha Lewthwaite is believed to have murdered HUNDREDS

A number of deluded women - including East London schoolgirls Shamima Begum,
Amira Abase and Kadiza Sultana - have fled Britain to wed ISIS fighters as
so-called jihadi brides.

But some take on a more deadly role.

Brit Samantha Lewthwaite - dubbed the White Widow - has murdered 400 people
after becoming a key figure in jihadist terror group al Shabaab.

But she has been overtaken by Kent mum-of-two Sally Jones - nicknamed Mrs Terror
- as the world's most wanted woman after she leaked the personal details of
military personnel.

SWNS/IG

MRS TERROR: The US has listed Sally Jones as a 'specially designated global
terrorist'

JACK HILL

GIRL POWER: Members of Kurdish freedom fighters the YPJ

ISIS is reportedly training all-women suicide squads to protect its de facto
capital of Raqqa, in Syria.

But women are also taking the fight to ISIS.

The Kurdish militia the YPG has a brigade of fearless Amazons armed to the teeth
with AK47s - known as the YPJ.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Islamic State's 'Mrs Terror'
issues chilling new warning Brit jihadis heading to holiday hotspot CYPRUS for
cheap flights to join ISIS New low for ISIS: Evil jihadis tie captives to
ancient pillars in Palmyra and blow them up

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                            October 27, 2015 Tuesday

Terror alert after attacker crashes car into Belgian barracks' gate

LENGTH: 429  words


A lone attacker tried to smash his car through the gates of an army barracks in
southern Belgium and fled in the vehicle after shots were fired, Belgium's
defence minister said yesterday.

Defence minister Steven Vandeput said the intruder's motive was unclear but
added "it is certainly an aggression targeting the barracks".

Police detained a suspect three hours after the attack following a hunt which
also involved helicopters, said prosecutor's spokesman Vincent Macq.

Since a gunman killed four people in a May 2014 attack on the Jewish museum in
Brussels, Belgium has been on heightened alert for further extremist attacks.
Police killed two men and arrested a third in January in a counter-terrorism
raid in the eastern city of Verviers.

Yesterday's incident occurred near the French-speaking town of Namur, south of
Brussels. The suburb of Flawinne is the site of one of Belgium's major military
barracks, home to the 2nd Commando Battalion.

Because of the higher alert level, the military immediately "fired some ten
warning shots," said Mr Vandeput.

Afterward, security personnel immediately swarmed the area.

"Within the next 30 minutes it was madness. Military [were] going all over the
place, police vans, special operation task forces, and at around 11am the bomb
squad arrived, and we were asked not to stay around," said Fabienne Botilde, who
lives near the entrance to the barracks.

Police cordoned off the area from 9:40am until 10:30am and a video posted on
Twitter showed officers apparently outside a supermarket.

"No-one was hurt, it seems," a spokesman for prosecutors in Namur was reported
as saying yesterday, following the incident. "If I look at it from an outsider's
point of view, it seems incomprehensible," he said. "Why would you attack a
military barracks?

"There are plenty of weapons there to strike back."

The vehicle's owner was said to have been identified after the car, thought to
be a Ford, was found in Belgrade, near Flawinne. Bomb squad officials were on
the scene after witnesses told Belgian media that the man was apparently
carrying something heavy in a case.

There were no reports of serious injuries at the barracks.

Belgium has been one of the largest recruiting bases per  head of population a
for foreign fighters travelling to join the Islamic State extremist organisation
in northern Iraq and Syria, and authorities have openly expressed alarm about
what the recruits might do if they return.

The Flawinne barracks is home to a commando battalion of 650 soldiers who take
part in Nato operations and peacekeeping missions.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                     October 28, 2015 Wednesday 7:45 PM GMT

Man attacked in ram-raid terror in Batley;
Police believe crime is part of a vendetta involving two groups

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


A man was attacked by a gang after a ram-raid terror in Batley.

He was a passenger in taxi which was forced to stop when it was rammed by
another vehicle but has not come forward.

The pick-up truck involved was later found burned out.

Police are now appealing for information following what they describe as a
targeted assault.

Shortly after 7.20pm last night, a taxi travelling along Field Lane was rammed
from behind by a vehicle. The passenger in the taxi got out of the vehicle and
was assaulted by a number of males. Damage was also caused to the taxi.

A black Nissan Navara pick-up, believed to be the vehicle involved in the
earlier incident, was found burnt out in Lidgate Gardens, Dewsbury, at around
9pm.

Det Insp Stef Wiseman, of Kirklees District CID, said: "This was a targeted
attack against a man which we understand is connected to a disagreement between
two local groups.

"At this stage the victim has not come forward to the police and we would urge
him to do so so that this incident can be properly investigated.

"We would also like to speak to anyone who has witnessed any part of this
incident; whether that be the collision and assault in Field Lane or any
activity in Lidgate Gardens where the pick-up vehicle has been found.

"We understand that a number of people have approached the taxi driver to check
on his welfare and we would urge them to come forwards."

Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call Kirklees District
CID via 101. Information can also be passed to independent crime-fighting
charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

In unrelated investigations, police would like to speak to the people pictured
in the image gallery below.

The people pictured in the images may be witnesses as well as suspects.

If you recognise anyone, contact police on 101 quoting the reference number on
the image caption.

Caught on Camera: West Yorkshire Police want to speak to these people - can you
help?

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 28, 2015 Wednesday 4:07 PM GMT

Ankara terror attack 'ordered by Isis to cause political instability and delay
elections', Turkish prosecutors say;
The Turkish President previously claimed that Isis had been working with Kurdish
rebel groups

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 301 words


Isis ordered the suicide bombings that killed more than 100 people in the
Turkish capital, prosecutors have said.

"(It aimed at) disrupting political stability by sabotaging upcoming elections
and complicating forming of a government in any way upon the political picture
that would emerge after the elections," the Ankara Chief Prosecutor's Office
said in a written statement,

quoted by

Hurriyet Daily News.

"Data found on digital materials" reportedly indicated that the attack was
organised by a cell based in the south-eastern province ofGaziantep, and aimed
to postpone the vote on 1 November.

Turkey names Ankara suicide bomber and alleges ISIL link

Two suicide bombers detonated their vests at a peace rally in Ankara on 10
October in Turkey's deadliest ever terrorist attack.

Read more

Turkish police detain 30 more suspected Isis militants in new raids

Ankara bombers used tea house to recruit for Isis as police looked on

DNA tests reveal Ankara suicide bombers' link to Isis

Politicians initially blamed a "cocktail" of terror groups after one of the
bombers was revealed to have links to Isis, with President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's claiming that Isis and Kurdish rebels were working together.

But analysts said co-operation was impossible when the groups were at war in
Syria, while notingthat many of the victims were Kurds or supporters of the
ethnic group

Turkish police detained 30 more suspected Isis militants yesterday, a day after
another wave of raids left two officers and seven alleged extremists dead.

A woman was among the suspects being questioned after police stormed buildings
in the city of Konya and the nearby town of Cumra in pre-dawn operations, state
media reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    October 28, 2015 Wednesday 11:23 AM GMT

Ankara terror attack 'ordered by Isis to cause political instability and delay
elections', Turkish prosecutors say;
The Turkish President previously claimed that Isis had been working with Kurdish
rebel groups

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 191 words


Isis ordered the suicide bombings that killed more than 100 people in the
Turkish capital, prosecutors have said.

"Disrupting political stability by sabotaging upcoming elections and
complicating forming of a government in any way upon the political picture that
would emerge after the elections," the Ankara Chief Prosecutor's Office said in
a written statement,

quoted by

Hurriyet Daily News.

"Data found on digital materials" reportedly indicated that the attack was
organised by a cell based in the south-eastern province Gaziantep, and aimed to
postpone the 1 November elections.

Turkey names Ankara suicide bomber and alleges ISIL link

Two suicide bombers detonated their vests at a peace rally in Ankara on 10
October in Turkey's deadliest ever terrorist attack.

Politicians initially blamed a "cocktail" of terror groups after one of the
bombers was revealed to have links to Isis, with President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's claiming that Isis and Kurdish rebels were working together.

But analysts said co-operation was impossible when the groups were at war in
Syria and noting that many of the victims were Kurds or supporters of the ethnic
group

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 28, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teenagers in flaming aerosol attack terror;
YOUTHS SET FIRE TO SPRAY CANS

BYLINE: JOE THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 195 words


TWO teenagers were targeted in a flamethrower-style attack in Huyton.

The 13-year-old boys were walking home from school in Huyton when they were
approached by two yobs who "ignited aerosol cans towards them".

Police say it was only "good fortune" that prevented the teens from being
seriously injured in the incident, which is being treated as an attempted
assault.

The two boys were walking on Bluebell Lane, near to Salerno Drive, at around 4pm
last Wednesday when they were approached by the males.

A police spokeswoman said: "The boys were not seriously injured but officers are
keen to speak to anyone who was in the area the time and may have witnessed the
incident."

Detective Constable Nick Sloan added: "I am very keen to speak to anyone who was
in the location at this time.

"This occurred at a busy time and location in the Huyton area, and this offence
would likely have been witnessed by other members of the public. "It was by good
fortune that the two juveniles did not sustain serious injuries."

Anyone with information can contact the Investigation Department on 0151 777
6582 or alternatively the confidential Crimestoppers line, anonymously, on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Attempted assault: Bluebell Road, Huyton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 28, 2015 Wednesday 4:10 PM GMT

Upmarket Paris hotels lose out after terrorist attacks;
Hoteliers complain of a bad year after the Charlie Hebdo attacks, compounded by
the growing popularity of online flat rentals

BYLINE: By David Chazan Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words


Paris's famous 'palace' hotels have been badly hit this year as terrorist
attacks scared away wealthy guests and visitors preferred to rent luxury
apartments on websites such as Airbnb.

Michel Jauslin, a vice-president of French capital's Park Hyatt, said the
Charlie Hebdo  and kosher supermarket attacks that killed 17 people in January
had an "enormous impact" in the first few months of the year. "Our occupancy
rate was easily down by 20 per cent and it took us time to get back up to
speed."

A similar decline in business was reported by Le Bristol, which like the Park
Hyatt is among eight Paris hotels with "palace" status, placing them a notch
above five stars. "It's been a dreary year," the chief executive, Didier Le
Calvez, said. "We're going to finish with a 65 per cent occupation rate."

Airbnb and other flat-sharing services are increasingly popular, not just among
tourists trying to save on the expense of a hotel but also with well-heeled
visitors who rent chic apartments.

Agencies have emerged that specialise in apartment rentals in upscale areas such
as the Ile Saint-Louis. In the fashionable Marais area, the number of travellers
staying in holiday flats now outnumbers permanent residents during the summer
months.

Undeclared rentals are illegal under French law and dozens of owners have been
fined after officials made spot checks in the district to identify properties
rented without the proper formalities.

Owners who rent their main homes to tourists for up to four months a year are
obliged under French law to buy another property of the same size to put on the
ordinary rental market.

Mr Le Calvez, who also heads the luxury branch of the French hotel union, said
competition from flat-sharing sites was "unfair". The union is lobbying the
government to take action against the sites.

The managing director of the Plaza Athénée, François Delahaye, told AFP he had
noticed clients "who booked an apartment on Airbnb and then came to dine at the
Plaza". He estimated that 10 to 15 per cent of the hotel's clientele had opted
for flat rentals.

Hoteliers acknowledge that the summer months were busy but say they failed to
compensate for the shortfall over the rest of the year.

However, investment adviser Gwenola Donet of JLL Hotels & Hospitality said it
would be difficult for apartment rentals to "substantially rival the palaces
which have swimming pools, one or more fine restaurants, 24-hour concierge
service, and ensure the security of their guests."

She said several upmarket hotels in Paris had recently reopened after
renovations, including the Plaza Athénée, and "supply has grown faster than
demand."

That may be good news for visitors, as some analysts predict that the average
room rates for luxury hotels could fall to below (EURO)1,000 (£725) a night.

"It's obvious that room rates at luxury hotels may have to come down in the next
few years," Mr Jauslin of the Park Hyatt told The Telegraph.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Six terror attacks thwarted in a year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 143 words


THE head of MI5 revealed last night that Britain faces threats at home, from
overseas and online on a scale he had not seen so far in his career.

Delivering the Lord Mayor of London's annual defence and security lecture,
director general Andrew Parker said that, with its partners, the security
service thwarted six UK terrorist attacks and "several" overseas plots in the
past year.

He said plots used "the full range of modern communications tools" to spread a
message of hate and inspire extremists as young as in their teens.

Mr Parker confirmed that more than 750 extremists from Britain have travelled to
Syria, and said "the growth in the threat shows no sign of abating".

The threat from Al Qaeda in South Asia, the Arabian Peninsula and parts of
Africa has not gone, he said, adding that terrorists still aspire to "mass
casualty" attacks against the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 29, 2015 Thursday 10:52 AM GMT

Isis planning 'mass casualty' terror attacks in UK, head of MI5 warns;
Andrew Parker's speech comes just weeks before the Investigatory Powers Bill -
or 'snooper's charter' - is to be published

BYLINE: Hardeep Matharu

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 598 words


Isis has attempted six mass casualty terrorist attacks in the UK in the last
year and will continue to plan more, the head of M15 has warned.

In a speech in London, Andrew Parker said the country's intelligence services
are now engaged in tackling a "three-dimensional threat" - at home, overseas and
online - and that the "scale and tempo" of the danger isat a levelnot seen in
his 32-year career.

"More than 750 extremists from this country have travelled to Syria, and the
growth in the threat shows no sign of abating," he said.

Referring to the six thwarted attempts on British soil in the past 12 months, he
said: "It may not yet have reached the high water mark and, despite the
successes we have had, we can never be confident of stopping everything."

A greater ambition for "mass casualty" attacks by Isis has been observed in that
time, he added.

The director general of the security servicesaid the Tunisia beach massacre in
June had beenan "appalling reminder of the threat" and that an increasing
proportion of the agency's work is linked to Syria and Isis.

Mr Parker said that MI5's work isincreasinglylinked to Syria and Isis

"We are seeing plots against the UK directed by terrorists in Syria; enabled
through contacts with terrorists in Syria; and inspired online by Isil's
sophisticated exploitation of technology.

Read more

Video shows raid on Isis compound in which US commando died

"It uses the full range of modern communications tools to spread its message of
hate, and to inspire extremists, sometimes as young as their teens, to conduct
attacks in whatever way they can."

He alsostressed that threats to Britain from al-Qaeda had not disappeared.

"All of this means that the threat we are facing today is on a scale and at a
tempo that I have not seen before in my career," he said.

Speaking of the upcoming Investigatory Powers Bill - the so-called 'snooper's
charter' -Mr Parker said MI5 wasnot seeking "sweeping new intrusive powers" but
rather a "modern legal framework that reflects the way that technology has moved
on, and that allows us to continue to keep the country safe".

The bill, due to be published by parliament on November 10,will outlinewith
greater claritythe powers of the intelligence services and the police to use
surveillance to carry out investigations and gather intelligence in the digital
age.

It will also propose a new style of scrutiny and regulation for bodies
exercising those powers.

Read more

Tony Blair apologises for 'bad intelligence' ahead of Iraq War

Peshmergas in Iraq have a new weapon in the fight against Isis

'Snooper's charter': Commissioner calls for data protection

"Information gathered from the technology terrorists use, often in the same way
as the rest of us, may sometimes be the only way to stop them," Mr Parker added.

"And so we need the tools to access terrorists' communications online just as
much as we intercepted written communications and telephone calls in years gone
by."

He said the ability to access and analyse data such as the who, when and where
of communications, or travel and passport information, is "more important than
ever before" because "we use data to save lives."

MrParkersaid "we do not, and could not, go browsing at will through the lives of
innocent people", but added: "We use these tools within a framework of strict
safeguards and rigorous oversight, but without them we would not be able to keep
the country safe."

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 29, 2015 Thursday 10:35 AM GMT

'Armed terrorists' attempt to attack school near Peshawar in Pakistan;
At least six militants reportedly scaled the walls but were fought off by guards
and residents and fled

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 335 words


Gunmen have reportedly attempted to storm schools in Pakistan, sparking panic
near the scene of the massacre that left 132 children dead in December.

Local media reported that a group of six "armed terrorists" tried to attack two
schools in Shabqadar but were fought off by civilians with guns.

"Some men were trying to climb the boundary wall of a private school and on
seeing them, the school guard opened fire after which the men fled," district
police chief Shafiullah Khan told AFP.

The Pakistani Taliban previously attacked Shabqadar with a suicide bombing
targting paramilitary police officers in May 2011

He said residents also took out their guns and fired into the air to scare the
intruders away from screaming children.

Read more

Peshawar attack: Children return to school following massacre

Key 'mastermind' behind Peshawar attack 'killed in shoot-out'

Peshawar school attack: Who are the Pakistani Taliban and what do they

The

Daily Times

reported that three of the attackers "opened aerial fire" by a public girls'
school and private school.

Announcements were made in local mosques calling for help to defend the
children, the newspaper said, and no deaths were reported.

Pakistan Today

named one of the schools as the al-Khalid Public School, quoting police saying
the attackers had fled.

The area was said to be in a state of panic as it was cordoned off by police and
soldiers for search operations.

Lying just 20 miles from the scene of last year's attack in Peshawar, Shabqadar
borders the lawless Mohman district where the Pakistani Taliban is active.

The terrorist group, also known as Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, are believed to be
behind several attacks on schoolchildren, including the attempted assassination
of Malala Yousfzai and the 2013 Peshawar school massacre, that killed 141
children and staff.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 29, 2015 Thursday 8:58 AM GMT

ISIS planning mass terror attack on Britain as threat 'reaches highest level in
decades' - warns MI5 boss;
Andrew Parker, director general of the Security Service, said the "scale and
tempo" of the danger is now at a level he has not seen in his 32-year career.

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


Islamic State is planning a mass attack in the UK as the terror threat to the
country reaches its highest level in decades - the head of MI5 has warned.

Andrew Parker, director general of the Security Service, says the current risk
of a terror attack in Britain is now at its 'highest level' in his 32-year
career.

He warned there have already been six terror attacks thwarted this year as the
threat from homegrown jihadis 'shows no sign of abating'.

More than 750 British extremists are said to have travelled to Syria this year.

His comments, given during a speech in London, come days before Theresa May
plans to publish a draft of landmark legislation covering spies activities in
the digital era.

Mr Parker said powers to monitor suspects' communications are crucial to
preventing atrocities.

He said: "The threat we are facing today is on a scale and at a tempo that I
have not seen before in my career.

"It may not yet have reached the high water mark and, despite the successes we
have had, we can never be confident of stopping everything," he said, citing the
Tunisia beach massacre in June as an "appalling reminder of the threat".

He spoke of a "three dimensional threat" - at home, overseas and online - with
an increasing proportion of the agency's casework linked to Syria and Isil.

Mr Parker said: "We are seeing plots against the UK directed by terrorists in
Syria; enabled through contacts with terrorists in Syria; and inspired online by
Isil's sophisticated exploitation of technology.

"It uses the full range of modern communications tools to spread its message of
hate, and to inspire extremists, sometimes as young as their teens, to conduct
attacks in whatever way they can."

Tears of young suicide bomber sent to die in Syria

The speed at which radicalisation can occur online and the emphasis on low
sophistication but potentially deadly plots are two major challenges posed by
IS, he said, while a greater ambition for "mass casualty" attacks has been
observed in the last year.

Mr Parker stressed that the threats to Britain from al Qaida in South Asia, the
Arabian Peninsula and parts of Africa have not disappeared.

"All of this means that," he said.

He also used the address to highlight the need for surveillance powers to be
brought in line with modern technology.

"Today the conversations of our adversaries are happening on a bewildering array
of devices and digital platforms, often provided by companies based overseas,"
he said.

"And an increasing proportion of such communications are now beyond our reach -
in particular with the growing prevalence of sophisticated encryption."

MI5 has no desire to hold back the tide of technological change, he said, but
added: "Information gathered from the technology terrorists use, often in the
same way as the rest of us, may sometimes be the only way to stop them.

"And so we need the tools to access terrorists' communications online just as
much as we intercepted written communications and telephone calls in years gone
by."

Mr Parker also repeated his message that firms have an "obligation" and an
"ethical responsibility" to work with law enforcement and other agencies "to
prevent their services being used for the purposes of serious crime and
terrorism".

He said the ability to access and analyse data such as the who, when and where
of communications, or travel and passport information, is "more important than
ever before", adding: "We use data to save lives."

Mr Parker stressed that "we do not, and could not, go browsing at will through
the lives of innocent people", saying: "We use these tools within a framework of
strict safeguards and rigorous oversight, but without them we would not be able
to keep the country safe."

Referring to the upcoming Investigatory Powers Bill, he said the service is not
seeking "sweeping new intrusive powers" but rather a "modern legal framework
that reflects the way that technology has moved on, and that allows us to
continue to keep the country safe".

Is this Jihadi John: Sickening new ISIS video emerges threatening hostage

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 29, 2015 Thursday 8:46 AM GMT

ISIS planning mass terror attack on Britain as threat 'reaches highest level in
decades' - warns MI5 boss;
Andrew Parker, director general of the Security Service, said the "scale and
tempo" of the danger is now at a level he has not seen in his 32-year career.

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 718 words


Islamic State is planning a mass attack in the UK as the terror threat to the
country reaches its highest level in decades - the head of MI5 has warned.

Andrew Parker, director general of the Security Service, says the current risk
of a terror attack in Britain is now at its 'highest level' in his 32-year
career.

He warned there have already been six terror attacks thwarted this year as the
threat from homegrown jihadis 'shows no sign of abating'.

More than 750 British extremists are said to have travelled to Syria this year.

His comments, given during a speech in London, come days before Theresa May
plans to publish a draft of landmark legislation covering spies activities in
the digital era.

Mr Parker said owers to monitor suspects' communications are crucial to
preventing atrocities.

Read more: Terror plot to 'bring down British passenger jet is thwarted by
spies'

He said: "The threat we are facing today is on a scale and at a tempo that I
have not seen before in my career.

"It may not yet have reached the high water mark and, despite the successes we
have had, we can never be confident of stopping everything," he said, citing the
Tunisia beach massacre in June as an "appalling reminder of the threat".

He spoke of a "three dimensional threat" - at home, overseas and online - with
an increasing proportion of the agency's casework linked to Syria and Isil.

Mr Parker said: "We are seeing plots against the UK directed by terrorists in
Syria; enabled through contacts with terrorists in Syria; and inspired online by
Isil's sophisticated exploitation of technology.

"It uses the full range of modern communications tools to spread its message of
hate, and to inspire extremists, sometimes as young as their teens, to conduct
attacks in whatever way they can."

Read more: ISIS bombing horror kills one and injures more than 100 in Muslim
procession

Tears of young suicide bomber sent to die in Syria

The speed at which radicalisation can occur online and the emphasis on low
sophistication but potentially deadly plots are two major challenges posed by
IS, he said, while a greater ambition for "mass casualty" attacks has been
observed in the last year.

Mr Parker stressed that the threats to Britain from al Qaida in South Asia, the
Arabian Peninsula and parts of Africa have not disappeared.

"All of this means that," he said.

He also used the address to highlight the need for surveillance powers to be
brought in line with modern technology.

"Today the conversations of our adversaries are happening on a bewildering array
of devices and digital platforms, often provided by companies based overseas,"
he said.

"And an increasing proportion of such communications are now beyond our reach -
in particular with the growing prevalence of sophisticated encryption."

MI5 has no desire to hold back the tide of technological change, he said, but
added: "Information gathered from the technology terrorists use, often in the
same way as the rest of us, may sometimes be the only way to stop them.

"And so we need the tools to access terrorists' communications online just as
much as we intercepted written communications and telephone calls in years gone
by."

Read more: ISIS terrorists exploiting migrant crisis by 'recruiting refugees
from asylum camps in Europe'

Mr Parker also repeated his message that firms have an "obligation" and an
"ethical responsibility" to work with law enforcement and other agencies "to
prevent their services being used for the purposes of serious crime and
terrorism".

He said the ability to access and analyse data such as the who, when and where
of communications, or travel and passport information, is "more important than
ever before", adding: "We use data to save lives."

Mr Parker stressed that "we do not, and could not, go browsing at will through
the lives of innocent people", saying: "We use these tools within a framework of
strict safeguards and rigorous oversight, but without them we would not be able
to keep the country safe."

Referring to the upcoming Investigatory Powers Bill, he said the service is not
seeking "sweeping new intrusive powers" but rather a "modern legal framework
that reflects the way that technology has moved on, and that allows us to
continue to keep the country safe".

Is this Jihadi John: Sickening new ISIS video emerges threatening hostage

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 29, 2015 Thursday 1:34 PM GMT

How likely is Britain to suffer another terrorist attack?;
As MI5 warns about the terror threat facing Britain, here is how high the
official threat level has been since 2006

BYLINE: By Asa Bennett

LENGTH: 343 words


Britain faces its biggest threat from international terrorism in 32 years,
according to the head of MI5 .

Andrew Parker, director general of the security agency, used the Lord Mayor of
London's annual defence and security lecutre to warn: "The threat we are facing
today is on a scale and at a tempo that I have not seen before in my career."

The spy chief said that most of his agency's reosurces were directed at stopping
terrorist attacks, with an increasing proportion of them linked to Syria and
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). So how at risk is Britain to
another terror attack?

It's worth taking a look at the threat level to chart the official assessment of
the likelihood of a terrorist attack. This is set by the Joint Terrorism
Analysis Centre and the Security Service, which operates out of MI5, and acts
independently of ministers by assessing a range of factors before deciding on
the threat level as part of the government's counter-terrorism strategy.

Since 2006, the "UK Government Levels" have been in place, marking the extent of
the threat on a scale from "Low" (an attack is unlikely) through to
"Substantial" (Strong possibility), "Severe" (Highly Likely), and "Critical" (an
attack is expected imminently).

Britain has seen the threat level reach "critical" on two occasions. The first
time was on August 2006 - after authorities arrested 21 people in connection
with a plot to blow up planes flying from the UK to the US and commit " mass
murder on an unimaginable scale ". The terror threat reached critical nearly a
year later on June 30 2007 after a blazing car loaded with propane canisters was
driven into a crowded Glasgow Airport.

The terror threat has shot up and dipped over the last few years, but has never
fallen below "substantial" (meaning that an attack is a strong possibility).
This chimes with Mr Parker's gloomy assessment of the threat facing Britain,
warning: ""It may not yet have reached the high water mark, and despite the
successes we have had, we can never be confident of stopping everything."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 2:58 PM GMT

Someone created a virtual reality app that lets you live through the 9/11 terror
attacks

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 549 words


A NEW virtual reality experience attempts to reveal a terrifying insight into
the 9/11 terror attacks, for those closet to the disaster.

846STUDIOS

[08:46] puts you in the World Trade Centre's North Tower on the morning of
September 11th

A new virtual reality experience - dubbed [08:46] - puts you in the World Trade
Centre's North Tower on the morning of September 11th 2001.

Players are dropped into the shoes of an office worker in the skyscraper.

After a brief interactive tutorial which walks players through the controls used
in the virtual reality experience, the plane hits the North Tower.

The creators of [08:46] describe the virtual reality app as a "narrative-driven
experience" for Oculus Rift.

Related articles  Samsung's next BIG device just LEAKED online  The secret
iPhone 6S feature Apple does NOT want you to use

"You embody an office worker in the North Tower of the World Trade Centre during
the 9/11 events, emphasising the victims' point of view," the creators claim.

Available through the developer's own website as well as the Oculus Share app
repository, [08:46] holds an average rating of around 3.3/5.

The [08:46] developers add: "Based on countless hours of research in order to
try to properly recreate the atmosphere and dynamics within the top floors of
the towers, [08:46] was designed and developed as a school project during three
months by a six members team, working in close collaboration with two actors for
mocap and voice acting."

846STUDIOS

The virtual reality experience places you inside the North Tower as an office
worker

846STUDIOS

The creators of [08:46] describe the virtual reality app as a "narrative-driven
experience"

The virtual reality experience could prove disturbing and upsetting for many
players, especially if you were personally affected by the traumatic events of
September 11 attacks.

[08:46] gets its name from the time of the first terror attack in New York city.

At 8:46am, American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower - one World
Trade Centre - flown by five hijackers.

Then, at 9:03am, another five hijackers crashed United Airlines Flight 175 into
the South Tower and some 30 minutes later a third hijacked plane hit the
Pentagon.

846STUDIOS

The terrorist attacks in New York City and the Pentagon killed 2,996 people

The South Tower collapsed at 9:59am, some 56 minutes after the initial impact.

The North Tower collapsed at 10:28am. A total of 2,996 people, including the 19
hijackers, were killed during the terror attacks.

[08:46] is not the first work of fiction to put people on-the-ground during the
attacks.

Paul Greengrass' 2006 film United 93 captures the events inside the aeroplane
which led to the crash of the titular jet.

Another film - World Trade Center - directed by Oliver Stone was released the
same year and follows two Port Authority police officers trapped under the
rubble of the World Trade Centre.

But watching a film is a very different experience to looking around in virtual
reality and living through the terrorist attack from within the tower.

Express.co.uk has not tested the app first hand, but recommends any Oculus Rift
owners proceed with caution.

Related articles  Passports are moving to the CLOUD: Would YOU trust your
travel...  Windows 10: Check your settings or Microsoft could upgrade your PC...

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 1:53 PM GMT

Virtual Reality simulator where players live out the horrific final moments of
9/11 terror attack victims is condemned as 'sick'

BYLINE: TOM WYKE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words



     ·    9/11 simulator designed to allow players to live out final moments in
          tower
     ·    The trailer shows the moment workers inside feel the plane hit the
          towers
     ·    Some people have criticised the 'game' as 'sick' and inappropriate


A highly controversial virtual reality simulator is due to be released which
allows gamers to live out the horrific final moments of the devastating 9/11
terror attacks which left nearly 3,000 people dead.

Titled '8:46' after the exact time the first hijacked plane was flown into the
North Tower, the shocking 'game' has been slammed by social media users as
deeply inappropriate and 'sick'.

Gamers play an officer worker, who is trapped inside the World Trade Centre and
has to make decisions on what to do next to survive.

Scroll down for video:

A short trailer for the game opens with the player inside an office when a
co-worker  receives a phone call.

Shortly after taking the call, the office worker calls the player over and they
exchange a file just before the plane hits the tower.

In the background, the sound of a falling aeroplane can be heard and an awful
crashing noise. The video shows how the character react to the shake of the
building from the impact of the plane.

Screams can be heard and the lights go out as the game tries to show what the
conditions were like for the people inside the building.

The player follows a character across the office, where they receive a torch
from a security guard character.

It is unclear how graphic the full simulator will be but the attention to detail
has left some people feeling uneasy with the game.

One social media user, known only as Icy/gx4 wrote: 'You shouldn't need a
9/11simulator to be able to empathize with anyone who died as a result of 9/11'.

Other commenters described the virtual reality experience as 'just sick.' 'Why
on earth would you want to know what it feels like to be a victim of a terror
attack? another user wrote on Twitter.

Despite the criticism, the simulator's creators said: '08:46 is a narrative
driven experience designed for virtual reality, which makes you embody an office
worker in the North Tower of the World Trade Center during the 9/11 events,
emphasizing the victims' point of view.'

The creators said that it was 'based on countless hours of research' and was
designed 'to try to properly recreate the atmosphere and dynamics within the top
floors of the towers'.

'08:46 was designed and developed as a school project during three months by a
six member team,' they said.

Virtual reality games have become increasingly popular, with gamers having the
chance to simulate tense situations like defusing a bomb and performing surgery
on an alien.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 3:54 PM GMT

American Airlines flight forced to divert after passenger 'started ranting about
9/11 terror attacks';
The passenger was taken for psychiatric evaluation after being escorted from the
jet following the mid-air drama

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words


A packed holiday jet was forced to divert after a passenger started ranting
about the 9/11 terror attacks, police said.

The American Airlines flight was on its way to Philadelphia from Los Angeles
when it made an unscheduled landing in Phoenix on Thursday.

The passenger, who made "alarming" statements referring to the Al Qaeda attacks,
was removed from Flight 754 at Phoenix Sky Harbor International airport.

He was transported to a psychiatric facility for evaluation under an involuntary
hold, said Sergeant Vince Lewis of the Phoenix Police Department.

American Airlines flight 754 from Philadelphia to Los Angeles diverted after
passenger's 9/11 rant

"We had a situation where right after takeoff a passenger stood and walked to
the first class section, where he stood at attention there and refused to take
his seat," Lewis said.

"He began making statements that, although they were alarming and threatening in
nature, gave the flight crew the indication (of possible mental health issues),"
he said.

Lewis said some of the passenger's comments referenced the attacks of September
11, 2001, and his beliefs about the government.

The flight, which departed LAX at 8.38 am local time, carried 150 passengers,
three infants and six crew members, and was refueled and allowed to continue on
to Philadelphia, a spokesman for American Airlines said.

A spokeswoman for the Phoenix airport declined comment.

American Airlines passenger's boo cabin crew for kicking woman off flight after
attendant 'bullies' her

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 1:04 PM GMT

American Airlines flight forced to divert after passenger 'started ranting about
9/11 terror attacks';
The passenger was taken for psychiatric evaluation after being escorted from the
jet following the mid-air drama

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 233 words


A packed holiday jet was forced to divert after a passenger started ranting
about the 9/11 terror attacks, police said.

The American Airlines flight was on its way to Philadelphia from Los Angeles
when it made an unscheduled landing in Phoenix on Thursday.

The passenger, who made "alarming" statements referring to the Al Qaeda attacks,
was removed from Flight 754 at Phoenix Sky Harbor International airport.

He was transported to a psychiatric facility for evaluation under an involuntary
hold, said Sergeant Vince Lewis of the Phoenix Police Department.

"We had a situation where right after takeoff a passenger stood and walked to
the first class section, where he stood at attention there and refused to take
his seat," Lewis said.

"He began making statements that, although they were alarming and threatening in
nature, gave the flight crew the indication (of possible mental health issues),"
he said.

Lewis said some of the passenger's comments referenced the attacks of September
11, 2001, and his beliefs about the government.

The flight, which departed LAX at 8.38 am local time, carried 150 passengers,
three infants and six crew members, and was refueled and allowed to continue on
to Philadelphia, a spokesman for American Airlines said.

A spokeswoman for the Phoenix airport declined comment.

American Airlines passenger's boo cabin crew for kicking woman off flight after
attendant 'bullies' her

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 4:43 AM GMT

American Airlines flight forced to divert after passenger 'started ranting about
9/11 terror attacks';
The passenger was taken for psychiatric evaluation after being escorted from the
jet following the mid-air drama

BYLINE: By Natalie Evans

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 216 words


A packed holiday jet was forced to divert after a passenger started ranting
about the 9/11 terror attacks, police said.

The American Airlines flight was on its way to Philadelphia from Los Angeles
when it made an unscheduled landing in Phoenix on Thursday.

The passenger, who made "alarming" statements referring to the Al Qaeda attacks,
was removed from Flight 754 at Phoenix Sky Harbor International airport.

He was transported to a psychiatric facility for evaluation under an involuntary
hold, said Sergeant Vince Lewis of the Phoenix Police Department.

"We had a situation where right after takeoff a passenger stood and walked to
the first class section, where he stood at attention there and refused to take
his seat," Lewis said.

"He began making statements that, although they were alarming and threatening in
nature, gave the flight crew the indication (of possible mental health issues),"
he said.

Lewis said some of the passenger's comments referenced the attacks of September
11, 2001, and his beliefs about the government.

The flight, which departed LAX at 8.38 am local time, carried 150 passengers,
three infants and six crew members, and was refueled and allowed to continue on
to Philadelphia, a spokesman for American Airlines said.

A spokeswoman for the Phoenix airport declined comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     October 31, 2015 Saturday 5:47 PM GMT

Stability and security dominate Turkish election debates;
A series of terrorist attacks have left country divided over which party is best
placed to solve internecine issues

BYLINE: Kareem Shaheen and Safak Timur in Istanbul

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 813 words


Earlier this month, Imran Kurt, a 22-year-old university student and activist,
was preparing to take part in a peace rally in Ankara when an explosion sent a
tremor through the group. Seconds later, another hit.

"When I raised my head, I saw bodies on the floor," says Kurt. "Our bodies were
covered in blood and pieces of flesh and we ran away for 50 metres. Then I ran
back to look for my mother who was with me." She was alive, inspecting the
bodies around her, looking to see if her son was among those who perished. "When
she saw me she started crying," he says.

On the eve of snap elections taking place on Sunday, banners throughout Istanbul
are emblazoned with the professorial face of the prime minister, Ahmet
Davutoglu, and the slogan istikrar  (stability). Yet the last few months of rule
by the Justice and Development party (AKP) have been anything but stable, with
the country suffering bouts of violence and renewed tensions with Kurdish
insurgents that could spell more civil conflict in coming months.

Security has emerged as a key flashpoint in the elections, with AKP officials
arguing a vote for them means a vote for stability and security. Their
opponents, on the other hand, argue that the AKP has failed to protect the
country and the opposition from terrorism and that militancy in the country has
been nourished by its policy of backing rebels in neighbouring Syria and
offering them refuge while failing to adequately defend the border.

"This is precisely the dilemma of this election," says Ahmet Hakan, a television
host and prominent columnist in the mainstream daily Hurriyet.

Parliamentary elections in June whittled away at the AKP's majority, forcing it
to enter negotiations to form a coalition government with its opponents, but the
failure of the talks contributed to political uncertainty. In August, the
Turkish president and AKP founder, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, called snap elections.

Meanwhile, a series of terrorist attacks have targeted the opposition - a
bombing in Diyarbakir struck at a rally  for supporters of the pro-Kurdish
People's Democratic party (HDP) in June, moments before the charismatic party
leader Selahattin Demirtas was scheduled to speak. A suicide bombing against a
gathering of mostly Kurdish activists in the border town of Suruç prompted
small-scale violence and, in turn, a crackdown against the outlawed Kurdistan
Workers' party (PKK), a campaign that risked inflaming the Kurdish insurgency
and increasing violence in the country's east.

And then came the double suicide bombing in Ankara on 10 October, which Kurt and
his mother survived but which killed dozens of others. It was the worst
terrorist attack in Turkey's history. "I can't say I'm good, psychologically,"
says Kurt. "Even on social media I still see my comrades who died and I see them
when I listen to music or when I read a poem."

Turkish experts say the formation of a coalition government in the aftermath of
Sunday's elections could help reduce tensions and polarisation in the country.
But some worry that the AKP may seek yet another election if they believe a
single-party government is within reach.

"Security is the most urgent issue now, it feeds him [Erdogan]," says Can
Dundar, editor-in-chief of the dissident newspaper Cumhuriyet. "People ask for
an authority to control the chaos. I guess he trusts that psychology. He waits
for people to say 'come and save us'. Another single party government would be a
disaster."

Observers say a third round of elections would be destabilising for the
country's security and economy, extending political uncertainty. Turkey has been
through an extended election cycle since local elections in March 2014, which
were followed by a presidential election in August, then the first parliamentary
polls in June this year.

Related:  Beset by terror and crisis at home and war abroad, Turks prepare for a
fateful choice

AKP supporters charge that the instability is a consequence of the prospect that
the party, which bills itself as being strong on counter-terrorism, may lose its
dominance over government. They say the attacks that have occurred are plots
aimed at embarrassing the party and striking at its popularity.

"I think these attacks aim to prevent AKP from coming to power as a one-party
government again," says Fatima, a 42-year-old longtime party volunteer at an
election tent in Istanbul. "It is a trap against us."

Kurt, however, says he will vote for the HDP and blames the government for the
instability in the country. Many members of the opposition have accused the
government of failing to protect the demonstrators at the peace rally and police
of assaulting those who came to help the wounded.

"There was no stability in Turkey," he says. "They have been inside the state
for 13 years, strengthening their own position. Their only aim is to hold on to
power. That is their stability."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                          AR (Absolute Return + Alpha)

                                 November 2015

Editor's Letter: Reflecting on the Paris Terrorist Attacks

BYLINE: Michael Peltz

SECTION: LATEST NEWS,FROM THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 415  words



-                                                                           -
-                    Mourners gather at the Bataclan concert hall (Bloomberg)

"Hi family "" I'm safe in my hotel pretty far south of the city center so don't
worry."

Those words, texted to me by my daughter at 5:31 p.m. in New York on Friday,
November 13, were my first news of the tragedy that was unfolding in Paris,
where she just happened to be spending the weekend. Ali, a third-year student at
the University of Virginia, has been attending classes this semester in Prague,
and she and her friends had flown to the City of Light the previous evening.
After a full day of sightseeing, including a trip to the catacombs at Notre Dame
and a late lunch, they decided to pick up a baguette, cheese and wine and stay
in for the evening. Not everyone in Paris was so lucky.

A few miles north of my daughter's hotel, three teams of terrorists were on a
rampage that began at the national stadium, where France was playing Germany in
a friendly soccer match with French President FranÃ§ois Hollande in attendance,
and ended with a hostage crisis at a 150-year-old music hall. By early Saturday
morning 129 people had been killed and more than 350 wounded. Among the dead was
a 23-year-old American design student who was studying in Paris for the
semester.

Hollande, who was evacuated from the soccer match after a suicide bombing
outside the stadium, condemned the terrorist attacks as "an act of war" by ISIS,
which claimed responsibility. The French president declared a state of emergency
and three days of national mourning.

For the families and friends of the victims, the mourning process will be long
and painful. Most of the people killed were not even 30. As a parent of two
20-somethings, I can only imagine the profound grief and sadness that the
victims' families are experiencing.

Coming just ten months after the murder of 11 people at satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo by al-Qaeda terrorists, the latest attacks have the French people
understandably shaken. They have also elicited powerful expressions of
solidarity throughout the world. National landmarks ranging from Australia's
Sydney Opera to the Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro were
illuminated at night with the blue, white and red of the French flag, while
millions of people on Facebook updated their profile pictures using the same
iconic colors. Though cynics may dismiss such actions as ineffectual in the
battle against terrorism, they offer hope, which at times like this can help
make sense of a seemingly senseless world.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: ARA


              Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 1, 2015 Sunday

Iran identifies, arrests "terrorist group" behind recent gun attack - prosecutor

LENGTH: 243 words


All 15 members of a "terrorist group" behind a recent gun attack in Iran's south
western province of Khuzestan have been arrested, conservative Tasnim news
agency reported on 1 November, citing the local public prosecutor.

Identifying the group as Jond-al-Faruq, Khuzestan Public Prosecutor Ahmad
Qahremani said: "This group, which sought to carry out more sabotage attacks and
similar shootings, has 15 members, all of whom have been arrested."

"Following their arrest, their other plans for [attacks in] Dezful and [nearby
city of] Shush were foiled. Their weapons were also found and seized," he added.

Qahremani said authorities had initially tracked down several members of the
group through monitoring their "anti-establishment" cyber activities.

"During interrogations, three of them confessed to having participated in the
Dezful terrorist incident... This group has two leaders and its main members
were based in Shush and Shavur region," he added.

Gunmen shot and killed two men in an attack in Iran's south western city of
Dezful in the oil-rich border province of Khuzestan on 16 October. Two more
people were also injured in the attack.

The group's name combines the Arabic words jond, meaning army, and al-Faruq,
which roughly translates to "he who can distinguish between right and wrong".
Al-Faruq was an honorific title of Sunni Muslims' second caliph, Omar ibn
al-Khattab.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1245 gmt 1 Nov 15

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      November 1, 2015 Sunday 8:08 AM GMT

The Judge: Family's fury after being abandoned by travel firm;
THE Bayne family felt abandoned by Thomas Cook when they offered them no real
support during the Tunisia Beach terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Judge

SECTION: AUTHORS,THE JUDGE

LENGTH: 461 words


LINDA BAYNE arrived in Tunisia with her family just as the terror attack was
taking place in June.

Thirty-eight people were killed when an armed gunman went on the rampage at a
beach resort minutes from her hotel.

But Thomas Cook kept quiet, leaving her to find out about the atrocity from
other guests, and did not evacuate them for two weeks.

Linda, 49, said: "We wanted to go home but were told we were over-reacting - 38
people dead is not an over-reaction.

"We were terrified to go anywhere and had no back-up at all from Thomas Cook. "

Linda and husband Gordon, 52, paid £1750 for the break as a treat for grandsons
Aaron, 11,  and eight-year-old Kieran.

She said: "I'd been to Tunisia before. It's a wonderful place."

But she knew something wasn't right when they arrived in Skanes , on Tunisia's
east coast, on June 26.

She said: "There were armed police everywhere and lots of roads closed. The rep
knew but didn't say a thing. We were left to find out from a British family
hours later when we went to the pool."

Linda, of Stenhousemuir, phoned home to find her family frantic with worry.

She said: "Our resort was 15 minutes from where the attack took place . They had
known for hours but couldn't reach us."

Thomas Cook cancelled all flights to Tunisia and sent additional aircraft to
allow tourists to fly home.

But Linda and Gordon, who runs his own roofing firm, asked to be repatriated
countless times and were given the brush-off.

Linda said: "The rep kept telling us there were no flights available. She
claimed to be just a phone call away but we could never track her down. She even
stopped wearing her uniform in the hope people wouldn't recognise her."

Eventually they were told their only option was to move to another hotel as the
resort was closing.

Linda said: "There were police carrying guns at the new place. This was hardly
reassuring as they were not always in uniform.

"After my son pleaded with the travel agent, Thomas Cook offered a flight to
Gatwick two days before we were due to leave. But they couldn't guarantee we'd
get on."

The Baynes were finally evacuated with one day to go.

Linda complained to Thomas Cook but was disgusted by their response and called
me in.

She said: "I know how lucky we are but what should have been a restful holiday
turned into the most terrifying ordeal."

I got on to Thomas Cook who said they would reach an "amicable resolution" as a
gesture of goodwill.

They added: "Our teams worked tirelessly and supported the Bayne family,
including moving them to an alternative hotel.

"It was impossible to provide flights for everyone immediately. Between July 10
and 12, 11 flights were scheduled, bringing 5000 customers home.

"As the Bayne party returned on their original date of departure, they are not
eligible for a refund."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      November 1, 2015 Sunday 9:26 PM GMT

Russian jet horror must be a terror attack say experts

BYLINE: David Pilditch

LENGTH: 470 words


THE Russian airliner which crashed in Egypt killing all 224 people on board had
broken up in mid-air, indicating an attack, officials admitted last night.

EPA

Authorities fear all on board crashed Russian jet dead

Investigators in Moscow said "all possible theories behind the crash" including
it being shot down or sabotaged are now being examined after further evidence
emerged.

They had initially discounted a terror attack but analysts strongly questioned
the assumption that the 18-yearold Airbus A-321 had a fault.

Russian transport minister Maksim Sokolov said although no evidence had been
seen that the plane was targeted a terror attack has not been ruled out.

Wreckage was found in northern Sinai where Egyptian security forces have, for
years, battled militants who claimed allegiance to Islamic State in recent
months.

IS has claimed it "brought down a Russian plane over Sinai state with more than
220 Russian crusaders".

EPA

Investigators say the plane could have been "shot down or sabotaged"

GETTY

IS claimed it "brought down a Russian plane over Sinai state with more than 220
Russian crusaders."

Militants in northern Sinai had pledged action after Russian President Vladimir
Putin launched an air campaign against IS and other militant groups in Syria in
September.

Last night, officials said wreckage and human remains had been strewn over an
area covering 12 square miles.

Viktor Sorochenko, head of Russia's Interstate Aviation Committee, said: "The
disintegration happened in the air and the fragments are strewn over a large
area."

The plane bound for St Petersburg went down in a remote area 23 minutes after
taking off from Sharm el Sheikh.

All on board the Airbus, operated by Moscow's Metrojet, were Russian apart from
four Ukrainian passengers.

brightcove.createExperiences;

EPA

Russia observed a day of mourning for its worst air disaster.

Twenty-five children were on board and there were seven crew members. Airlines
Lufthansa, Air France and Emirates have all announced they will no longer fly
over the Sinai until the cause has been identified.

In Moscow, test pilot Magomed Tolboyev said: "Given that this is a region in the
focus of the global attention and a zone of interest for all Islamic bandits, it
is possible to say that it could have been just one thing - an explosion on
board, a terrorist attack."

He added: "I don't see any other reason."

Russia observed a day of mourning yesterday for its worst air disaster.

A Downing Street spokesman said Prime Minister David Cameron had called the
Russian president and said Britain shared the pain and grief of the Russian
people and Britain "stood ready to help".

Related articles  Russia's day of mourning for 224 dead as ISIS release video...
WATCH: Chilling video that could prove ISIS DID shoot down Russian...

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                                   Reactions

                                 November 2015

Pool Re ready for terrorist chemical attack

BYLINE: Vicky Beckett

SECTION: LLOYD'S & LONDON MARKET,EUROPE,REINSURANCE
,INSURANCE,PROPERTY-CATASTROPHE,SPECIALTY & OTHER LINES

LENGTH: 314  words



HIGHLIGHT: Responding to a warning from the French Prime Minister, Pool Re has
said chemical and biological terrorism are covered by the UK terrorism
reinsurance fund's retrocessional buying.


Pool Re chief executive, Julian Enoizi, has commented on the warning by French
Prime Minister Manuel Valls, that France could face chemical or biological
attacks by terrorist groups.

"Pool Re is ready and able to respond to any such heinous assault on UK soil",
Enoizi said.

In 2002, Pool Re extended the coverage of its terrorism risks reinsurance scheme
to include chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) threats.

That protection is backed by an unlimited guarantee from the UK Treasury.

Enoizi said the guarantee provides "built-in resilience for UK PLC", and its
ability to recover swiftly from the kinds of attacks outlined to the French
parliament by Valls.

This would include, for example, meeting reinsured businesses' consequential
loss claims arising from the widespread contamination of workplaces by
terrorists deploying a pathological agent, Pool Re said.

Pool Re insures losses resulting from damage to property caused by acts of
terrorism. It carries no exclusion for a CBRN contamination event.

The three-year, £1.8bn, private-market reinsurance programme bought by Pool Re
this year includes CBRN risks, mirroring the covers already provided by Pool Re
to its member insurers.

"Manuel Valls' comments are a reminder of the evolving terrorist threat faced by
European countries," Enoizi said.

"Pool Re helps to build resilience into the British economy by underwriting,
through our public/private partnership with the Treasury, the potential cost to
the UK of terrorist threats, including chemical or biological attacks.

"As ever, our goal is to enhance the robustness of the UK economy in the face of
terrorist threats, and provide our Members and their clients with the confidence
that we will respond in the event of a terrorist attack," he said.

"Scenario planning and response-mechanism testing, including for CBRN threats,
is, as always, under way," he added.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: REACT


              Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1742
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:46:47

