



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:40:42
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:11 AM GMT

UK terror attack feared amid warnings gangs are smuggling in submachine guns;
Organised crime syndicates are smuggling Skorpion submachine guns into Britain
which could then fall into the hands of jihadists

BYLINE: By Martin Evans Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


Fears of a Tunisian style attack  on the streets of Britain have been raised
after it emerged that criminal gangs have been smuggling powerful submachine
guns into the country.

Security chiefs are concerned that the weapons, capable of firing 1,000 rounds a
minute, could fall into the hands of would be jihadists.

A report from the National Crime Agency (NCA) published last week into serious
and organised crime in the UK, found evidence of an "increased threat" of Czech
made Skorpion submachine guns being imported into the UK by street gangs in
London and the south east.

The fear is that these weapons could then find their way into the hands of
extremists, intent on carrying out a terror attack.

The report also warned that illegally held weapons and ammunition, often hoarded
by collectors, could find their way into the hands of criminal organisations,
which might then pass them on to jihadists.

Counter terror chiefs have long been concerned over the crossover between
ruthless criminal gangs and extremists.

Gun attacks similar to that carried out in Tunisia and the 2008 Mumbai atrocity,
are notoriously difficult for the authorities to derail because of the lack of
planning needed to execute.

· How the Mumbai terror attacks changed British anti-terror tactics

· al-Qaeda plotting attack on Britain

Scotland Yard is stepping up visible and covert policing at significant public
events such as the Wimbledon tennis championships and planned services to mark
the tenth anniversary of the July 7 attacks in London.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, National Police Chiefs' Council lead for
counter terrorism, said the police response to the atrocity in Tunisia was
likely to be one of the largest counter terrorism deployments seen since the
bomb attacks on the capital in 2005.

He said: "The operation currently involves over 600 officers and staff and is
being coordinated from the National Counter Terrorism Policing HQ at New
Scotland Yard.

"Because of the scale of the attack, the numbers of fatalities and the
international nature of it, it is likely that several hundred counter-terrorism
and other police officers and staff will be working on this case for some time.

"Since Friday evening, over 380 counter terrorism and local officers have been
at British airports to meet and support travellers returning from Tunisia to
help identify potential witnesses.

"On Saturday, officers met 27 flights and there will be similar levels of
activity today, including taking detailed statements from many witnesses to
support the UK colonial process.

"Officers will remain at the airports to meet more returning citizens as and
when they come home.

"We have already deployed a team of 16 officers to Tunisia, including senior
detectives and specialist forensic officers from New Scotland Yard's Counter
Terrorism Command, as well as family liaison officers.

He added: "In Britain, large numbers of officers are supporting our
international response to the attack. This includes 60 family liaison officers
who are with relatives in the UK of those killed and injured. These highly
experienced FLOs will be supporting victims and their families as part of the
police investigation."

Scotland Yard is also appealing for anyone who was in Sousse, Tunisia at the
time of the attacks to come forward as they may have information that could help
with the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ten years on from the terror attack that 'changed the rules';
The 7/7 London bombings in 2005 were the first major atrocities on British soil
by Islamist extremists. Alan Jones looks at the lasting effect the attacks had
on government policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 867 words


Final arrangements are being made to mark the 10th anniversary of the terrorist
attacks in London which claimed the lives of 52 innocent people and injured
hundreds more.

Survivors of the 7/7 bombings and relatives of those who died will join David
Cameron, London Mayor Boris Johnson, other politicians and members of the
emergency services at memorial events on July 7. Firefighters, London
Underground staff, paramedics and passengers caught up in the horrors of a
decade ago will mark the anniversary in different ways.

Many will attend memorial events, some will return to the scenes of the bombs
which ripped though Tube trains and a London bus while others do not want to
remember. The terror attack in Tunisia, another Islamist extremist atrocity
which claimed the lives of innocent Britons, is likely to make July 7 all the
more poignant for many.

The July 7 attacks shaped the landscape for the fight against terrorism in the
UK for years to come.

They represented the first major atrocity on British soil by Islamist extremists
and brought into stark relief a threat which was so horrifyingly demonstrated in
New York four years earlier.

That the perpetrators were all "home-grown", apparently normal members of
society, made their murderous acts all the more shocking. When another attempt
to bomb the capital's transport network failed a fortnight after 7/7, the sense
of alert heightened further.

July 7, 2005, had dawned with London still elated from learning the previous day
that it had won the 2012 Olympics, but the euphoria was short-lived.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning. They took a
train to King's Cross in London, then hugged and separated to carry out their
deadly missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Aldgate, Khan set
his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between King's Cross
and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device on board the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at
9.47am.

Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line, six
died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line, seven died in the
bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line and 13 died in the bombing on the number
30 bus at Tavistock Square.

A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen shooting dead innocent
Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes.

Many police officers, firefighters, paramedics and London Underground staff
displayed extraordinary bravery in descending into dark and smoke-filled Tube
tunnels, aware that they could face further bombs.

An inquest in 2011 heard that their ability to help the injured and dying was
restricted by issues ranging from equipment shortages to delays in reaching the
scenes of the attacks.

The 7/7 coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, found that each one of the 52 innocent
victims would have died "whatever time the emergency services reached and
rescued them'." Then-prime minister Tony Blair warned that the "rules of the
game are changing" as he announced wide-ranging powers to combat Muslim
extremists.

The following year, the government made public for the first time authorities'
assessment of the possibility of a terror attack in UK at any given time.

In an indication of the enduring nature of the threat, it has mainly stood at
either of the top two levels -critical or severe - since it was first published
in August 2006.

Although no mass casualty attacks on the scale of 7/7 have happened since, there
is no doubt that the UK has been targeted for terrorist operations on a number
of occasions over the last decade.

In November, Home Secretary Theresa May revealed that 40 plots have been foiled
since the bombings. Some of these have been well-documented, such as a plan to
blow up transatlantic jets and to bomb the London Stock Exchange, while others
are known only to the security services.

Terrorism returned to London in a different form in 2013 when two Islamist
fanatics murdered Drummer Lee Rigby near Woolwich Barracks in broad daylight.

If al-Qaeda were seen as posing the greatest threat in the aftermath of 7/7, the
emergence of Islamic State (IS) in the Middle East has added a new dimension to
the challenge facing the police and security services.

In a recent speech, Mrs May said: "The atrocities on 7/7, carried out by British
terrorists, intent on the mass murder of fellow British citizens, changed the
way we understood and approached the threat from terrorism.

"Ten years later, we have seen that the threat has evolved, and it has become
more serious and more complex."

Earlier this year, police revealed that more than 700 British-based extremists
have travelled to Syria, with a significant proportion of those believed to have
made the journey to fight with the extremist group.

The pervasiveness of the internet and social media today has added a new
dimension.

Police have warned that extremists are attempting to use online platforms to
propagate attacks and recruit new fighters and have welcomed the Government's
proposals to expand powers to track communications data.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The number 30 double-decker bus in Tavistock Square, which was
destroyed by a bomb in the terrorist attacks on the capital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Andover Advertiser

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Tributes paid to North West Hampshire man 'killed in Tunisia terror attack'

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


TRIBUTES have been paid to a man from North West Hampshire who is thought to be
one of the British people who died in a terror attack in Tunisia last week.

David Thompson, of The Green, Tadley has been named locally as being one of the
victims of the terrorist attack on a beach near Sousse last Friday.

Thirty-eight people lost their lives in the attack carried out by Seifeddine
Rezgui and thirty of those victims are expected to be confirmed as British.

Neighbours have said that David, who is thought to be 80, was on holiday in
Tunisia with his partner Anne at the time of the attack and they described him
as a "very active person".

Claire Chambers, 58, said she would exchange Christmas cards with the couple,
adding: "It is a huge tragedy and I think the other (sad) thing is he was very
fit and went running. He was incredibly fit.

"It is just dreadful and I don't know how the witnesses of it would get over
that.

"People who didn't lose anybody also experienced being over there. They were so
far from safety and the beach was close to the hotel and he went into the hotel
and it is just awful.

"It is truly dreadful and you don't imagine it to happen so close to home. It
has been quite a shock. It is just so sad."

Other neighbours described the attack as "tragic" and a "sad situation" and said
it was sad that someone so fit and active has been killed.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not confirmed the identity of any of the
British victims.

In a statement in the House of Commons yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron
said: "It is with great sadness that I have to tell the House that we now know
at least 18 British nationals have been killed, with more injured and the death
toll is likely to rise still further.

"Mr Speaker these were innocent British holidaymakers, people who had saved up
for a special time away with their friends and family, and who suddenly became
the victims of the most brutal terrorist attack against British people for many
years.

"I am sure the whole House will join me in sending our deepest condolences to
the families and friends of all those who have lost loved ones. And I know the
whole country will want to share in a moment of remembrance."

A minute silence will be held across the country on Friday to remember the
victims of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Mock terrorist firearms attack being staged in London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


A major counter-terrorism exercise is being carried out in London to ensure
emergency services are ready "should the worst happen", Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan Howe has said.

A mock terrorist firearms attack is being staged in the capital today to test
the response to a Tunisian-style mass shooting.

Officers, emergency services, soldiers and intelligence officials are taking
part in the operation.

Sir Bernard said: "With events like today we are committing around 1,000 people
to exercise our plans and make sure that should the worst happen we are ready.
And we will be."

He said the rate of arrests for terror offences has increased in the last year.

"It is clear during that time that we've disrupted some very serious plots and
some of those cases are going to the courts. The reason we have exercises like
today is because, obviously, we are concerned there are people planning
terrorist events.

"We intend first of all to stop them from getting to attack. But should we not
stop the terrorists in their planning, it's essential we disrupt them in any of
the attacks that may take place."

Preparations for the exercise began around six months ago and events such as the
Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the hostage siege in Sydney influenced the
test.

The Mumbai attack in 2008 also featured in the planning.

Scotland Yard stressed the test was in no way connected or prompted by the
massacre in Tunisia last week.

Sir Bernard said: "Today's exercise will test our people in how to respond to a
terrorist threat and we will learn from the mistakes that we are bound to make
today.

"It's best we make them today in an environment where we don't have terrorists,
than make those mistakes when we do."

The two-day exercise will see a test of the emergency service response to an
attack at the disused Tube station at Aldwych.

The vast majority of police officers involved have no idea about the venues or
what is planned. Only around 12 people knew specific details of in advance.

Among those taking part are all of London's emergency services, Greater London
Authority, Transport for London, Home Office, Cabinet Office, Ministry of
Defence, the Department of Health and NHS England.

Surrey Street will be shut for the day in order to minimise disruption.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Kyrgyzstan offers condolences over Kuwait terror attack

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 30 June: Kyrgyz Prime Minister Temir Sariyev has expressed condolences
to Kuwaiti Prime Minister Shaykh Jabir Mubarak al-Hamad al-Sabah over the deaths
of civilians in a terror attack in one of the mosques in Kuwait City, the Kyrgyz
government's press service has reported.

Temir Sariyev conveyed the words of comfort to the families and friends of the
deceased, and wished speedy recovery for all those injured.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0437 gmt 30 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Sudanese editorial views terrorist attacks in France, Kuwait, Tunisia

LENGTH: 611 words


Text of report in English by Khartoum-based Sudanese newspaper The Citizen on 30
June

The world was stunned and horrified by the terrorist attacks last Friday 26
June, 2015 in three different continents; France, Kuwait and Tunisia within
three hours of each other. All due respect and condolences to the French
victim's family and loved ones but it's clear that Tunisia and Kuwaiti attacks
were much more devastatingly gruesome.

In France, a man stormed an American chemicals factory, decapitated his boss'
head and took a selfie with it and also attempted to blow-up the facility. One
hour later in Kuwait City a Saudi suicide bomber blew himself up inside Imam
Al-Sadiq mosque during Friday prayers killing 27 worshippers and wounding over
220 in the holy fasting month of Ramadan.

Three hours after the first attack in the Tunisian resort of Sousse, a gunman
drew an assault rifle from a beach umbrella and killed at least 38 people, many
of them British nationals at the Imperial Marhaba seaside resort.

The Islamic State terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attacks in
Tunisia and Kuwait, according to published statements on twitter. Al three
heinous acts of terror, whether claimed by the so-called Islamic State group or
by its affiliates, were perpetrated apparently under the banner of Salafist
Islam - the more extreme interpretation of the Islamic faith. Yet we challenge
even those who claim to be purest Salafist that such acts have nothing to do
with the real Islam.

The Salafist doctrine - from which Al-Qa'idah and ISIS came claims to follow to
the letter the early life and the teachings of Prophet Muhammad Ibn Abdillah
(May Peace & Blessings of Allah Be Upon Him). This is why Salafists shun the
wearing of pants and T-shirts and adhere to the way the early Muslims wore their
clothes.

Yet they see no problem in driving cars and having high-tech encrypted smart
phones and communications devices. They would also seek Western medicine when
sick. So is it only the Western system that they abhor plus Western clothes?
That does not seem right either as many of them live in Europe and North
America.

But let us challenge their own beliefs and leave for now their many
contradictions with regards to the West. In an anecdote recited by late Egyptian
renowned Islamic cleric Mutwali al-Sha'rawi, he tells how the Prophet (Peace be
Upon Him) was sitting talking to some of his disciples in the town of Madinah -
the early capital of Islam - when a group of Jews passed by carrying the corpse
of one of their own for burial.

The Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) stood up in respect and in some
versions of the story it was said he stood up and cried. His companions said to
him "But that was the body of a Jew not a Muslim" to which the prophet replied
"Was it not a soul?" or words to that meaning.

The moral of the story is that we are all equal I humanity, and the prophet -
who the Salafists proclaim to follow - has more stories involving Christians,
Jews and pagans. In all of them the Messenger for Humanity Prophet Muhammad
(peace be upon him) treated all non-Muslims with courtesy and respect.

So where do the Salafists get their teachings from? It is certainly not from the
Prophet of Peace Muhammad (peace be upon him). They are followers of their own
distorted interpretations of Islamic teachings, which must be coming from some
dark evil entity. As the UK Foreign Office Minister, Tobias Elwood, said the
terror attacks were "acts of evil".

Our condolences to the Kuwaiti emir, government and people and to the Tunisian,
British and French governments and people. Evil will not prevail.

Source: The Citizen, Khartoum, in English 30 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Two people killed in possible "terrorist" attack close to Cairo

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Giza, 30 June: Two bombs exploded in a car in the Six of October City [32km away
from Cairo in Giza] Tuesday [30 June] evening killing two people, said a
security source.

The source told MENA that the dead were inside the car during the explosions
which occurred outside a mall.

It pointed out that bomb disposal experts rushed to the scene to inspect the
area.

[Private ON TV Live quoted at 1753 gmt on 30 June assistant interior minister
for media as saying, that the people who were driving the car possessed
explosive devices that went off before the "terrorists reached their targets".
The TV showed two metres away from each other cars on fire with limited waves of
dark smoke coming out of them]

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1807gmt 30 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Serbian police sparing no effort to prevent terrorist attacks - minister

LENGTH: 476 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 30 June

[Unattributed report: "Stefanovic: I Cannot Say Serbia Is Not Under Threat of
Terrorist Attacks"]

Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said today that that he could not safely that
the country was under threat of terrorist attacks, but he pointed out that
everything was being done to prevent such attacks from happening.

"I cannot say that Serbia is not in danger, that would be irresponsible on my
part, but we have undertaken all the necessary measures to discover and preclude
any terrorist threats," Stefanovic said in a statement for the RTS [Serbian
Radio Television].

He pointed out that all necessary measures had been taken "much earlier."
Talking about migrants, Stefanovic said that raising a fence between Serbia and
Hungary did not mean that migrants would not be able to cross the border.

"Everyone who is entitled to asylum can cross the border regularly at border
crossings and their movement cannot be prevented. They will continue to be able
to cross the Serbian border into other countries and request asylum," Stefanovic
said.

He said that he would talk with his Hungarian colleagues ahead of the joint
session of the Serbian and Hungarian governments about what the two countries
could do to resolve the problem of migrants.

The Serbian police minister reiterated that they have already started with joint
patrolling of borders with the Hungarian and Macedonian police and that further
efforts would be made to reduce illegal border crossings on all borders.

As he pointed out, the migrants are not only a problem for Serbia and Hungary,
but for all of Europe and it is necessary to find a lasting solution as soon as
possible.

Serbia Will Not Sign Anything That Is Detrimental to Its Citizens

Stefanovic said that that everything had been done to achieve an agreement with
Pristina in Brussels, but he also pointed out that Serbia would not sign
anything that would be detrimental to our citizens only to open negotiating
chapters with the European Union.

"Our side has done everything to secure an agreement, naturally not against the
best interests of the citizens of Serbia, particularly those who live in
Serbia's southern province. Our objective was the Brussels agreement. We wanted
the Association of Serb Municipalities to get all the powers that the agreement
calls for," Stefanovic said, adding that regardless of the efforts made by the
Serbian side, an agreement was not reached last night.

Asked how this would affect the process of European integration, he said that
this was not up to Serbia.

"This does not depend on Serbia, but if anyone expects Prime Minister Aleksandar
Vucic to sign anything detrimental to Serbia in return for opening negotiating
chapters, we are not prepared to do that," Stefanovic said.

Source: Blic website, Belgrade, in Serbian 0000 gmt 30 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Bexhill Observer

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

COUNTY NEWS: Horsham men witness terrorist attack on Tunisian beach

BYLINE: Harley Tamplin

LENGTH: 701  words


A Horsham man who witnessed the terrifying' moment a terrorist opened fire on
holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach said it was like being in a war zone'.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed at least 18 Britons in the attack in Sousse on
Friday (June 26), while Horsham pair Kevin French and Gary Woolnough were in a
nearby bar on the beach.

Neither Kevin or Gary was injured, and they returned home to Horsham on Saturday
morning (June 27).

An emotional Kevin admitted he thought that was it' during the attack, and
expressed his heartfelt thanks to the amazing' people of Sousse for their
response to the incident.

He said: "I can't get my head around what has happened. It was like being in a
war zone but I had no machine gun - it was pandemonium.

"Thank God, we have come home safe to our beautiful town, and our friends have
been so good to us here, but I thought that was it.

"I am dazed and haven't been able to sleep. Every time I close my eyes it
replays."

The British death toll is expected to rise to more than 30 once the
identification of victims is completed.

Kevin described the shocking scene as holidaymakers including he and Gary fled
the beach towards the Imperial Mahaba Hotel in the wake of the incident.

He explained that he was talking to Colin, a man in his 70s, in the beach bar
when Rezgui began shooting tourists.

He said: "All of a sudden I heard this bang, the most almighty bang - I thought
it was fireworks.

"I saw this man and there were people - whether they were dead or just fell to
the ground, I don't know.

"Then it was just like pop pop, pop pop' and smoke coming out of it. I said to
Gary and Colin, we have got a problem here', and Gary just stared in disbelief
at what was unfolding."

Kevin watched as tourists ran from the beach into the bar and hid in the
toilets.

He, Gary and Colin joined other holidaymakers in retreating to the Imperial
Mahaba, a walk of around a quarter of a mile, Kevin said.

He added that there was no way of knowing how many terrorists were involved in
the attack.

He said: "He was running across the beach towards the right. He was coming our
way and if he came into the beach bar he is going to have about 70 or 80 people,
and it will be bang, bang, bang'.

"I have never been so frightened. All around us there were grenades going off
and there was gunfire all around."

After reaching the hotel, Kevin and Gary invited Colin, his wife Ruth, and a
younger couple to their room, which was on a higher floor - my priority was to
do what I can to make people safe as best as I could'.

The six sat in the room listening to the gunfire, and feared for their lives
after hearing that Rezgui had stormed the hotel.

They considered barricading themselves in the bathroom, but the attacker soon
left the hotel.

Shortly after, he was shot dead by police.

Kevin visited the resort three times last year and said the staff, some of whom
he knew from previous visits, were amazing'.

He also stressed his guilt at having to leave the country and local people
behind.

He said: "The staff were running down to the beach and I said don't go, you are
going to get shot'. One of them turned around and said it is their job and they
have to go.

"I just want to give something back to the Tunisian people, they were so good. I
felt so guilty for leaving, but our prime concern was our safety.

"The ironic thing is that before I left people said be careful, and I said you
have got more chance of being shot in a high street in the UK."

Following the incident, meetings were held at the hotel where tourists were
ensured that the hotel was in lockdown and that they were safe.

Kevin said he and Gary have been overwhelmed with support from friends since
their return to Horsham.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage

2) Like our Facebook page

3) Follow us on Twitter

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

Always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPBO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bristol Post

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Tourists from Bristol willing to go on holiday to Tunisia again despite terror
attacks

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 221  words


"I would go back there in a heartbeat." That is the sentiment of some of the
tourists coming back from Tunisia after dozens of people were killed in a terror
attack. More than 12,000 people from Britain were on holiday in Sousse, Tunisia,
when a gunman let rip on a busy beach around noon last Friday.

Alison Bass:  Been to the Imperial Marhaba and it was the best. Have been going
to Tunisia since 1972 and will go back but not just at the moment.

Katie Somerfield:   People return to New York and London where terror has
struck, why let terrorists take away a large part of a country's GDP.

Angela Horler:   Have wanted to go back to Tunisia for a while, feel it is too
unstable for a while now, but have every intention of going back... if Bristol
was on receiving end of one of these hideous attacks would we want people to
stay away and let terrorists win?

Karen Rew:   No way would I. What is this world coming to it's frightening can't
go anywhere any more. This is a cruel world with sick people in it - feel for
all the people that died and all their families.

Caroline Pritchard:   Certain places I wouldn't go to. I've been to a lot of
Muslim countries, I never felt safe in Egypt. I did feel safe in the other
places. It can happen on your front door or anywhere. I want to go back to
Turkey and I will go back one day.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Impact of terror attacks will run deep

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 8-9

LENGTH: 110  words


THE impact of the terror attack on tourists in Tunisia has reverberated around
the world.

Dozens of Britons were murdered as they relaxed in the holiday resort of Sousse.

Now people across Europe and the globe have to come to terms with yet another
attack by terrorists.

Many UK residents have already returned home, including a couple from
Swadlincote, and many others now face a choice of whether to head out to Tunisia
for planned holidays during the summer and autumn months.

Travellers need to make sure that they listen carefully to Foreign Office advice
before making any decision.

The battle against terrorists looks set to continue for a long time to come.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 7:00 PM GMT

Tunisia massacre: Northumberland tourist saw gunman laughing as he took photos
of victims;
Hero Paul Short from Northumberland helped save lives as terror attack gunman
ran amok in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Mike Kelly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


A NORTH East holidaymaker who helped save fellow tourists from the massacre in
Tunisia has told how he helped a devastated man move his dead wife - as the
gunman stood metres away "taking photographs of the bodies and laughing".

Paul Short, from Wooler, Northumberland, was on holiday in Sousse with his wife
Sarah last Friday where Seifeddine Rezgui carried out his terror attack, killing
at least 30 Britons.

He said that like many other tourists relaxing on the beach, he and his wife
initially assumed the gunfire blasting out nearby was fireworks.

"Eventually I saw the gunman run up from the beach and he started firing at
everybody and I shouted at everybody to run," Mr Short recalled.

After making sure his wife was safe in her room, he tended to a man who was
bleeding heavily from being shot.

"I shoved the towel into his leg and put a tourniquet on him - he was more
concerned about his wife, but his wife was lying above him and she was already
dead and I didn't want to tell him."

Mr Short, an ex-Territorial soldier, was forced to break the news that the man's
wife was dead, and along with another brave tourist called Keith, helped to move
her body while the gunman took pictures.

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

Mr Short told of how a deaf man then started walking towards him, shouting for
his wife.

He said: "The gunman turned around and started firing at him, I ran up and took
him behind the pillar while the gunman shot at him, taking out the coffee table
... he started running up to the two of us."

Mr Short helped the deaf man into a hotel room and "jumped under a settee" as
the gunman threw a grenade.

3 minute long footage shows gunman's last moments in Tunisia as brave hotel
staff chase after the killer

Armed guards arrived and Mr Short went to look for the man with the leg injuries
and sat with him until medics took the casualty away.

He then went back to his room to join his terrified wife.

Wife Sarah told Good Morning Britain: "After he left me in the room and closed
the door there were two gunshots that went off.

"My immediate thought it was Paul and Keith. I just sat in the room screaming
and crying. Until I saw him, I basically thought he was dead."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Crawley Observer

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

COUNTY NEWS: Sussex men witness terrorist attack on Tunisian beach

BYLINE: Harley Tamplin

LENGTH: 701  words


A Sussex man who witnessed the terrifying' moment a terrorist opened fire on
holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach said it was like being in a war zone'.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed at least 18 Britons in the attack in Sousse on
Friday (June 26), while Horsham pair Kevin French and Gary Woolnough were in a
nearby bar on the beach.

Neither Kevin or Gary was injured, and they returned home to Horsham on Saturday
morning (June 27).

An emotional Kevin admitted he thought that was it' during the attack, and
expressed his heartfelt thanks to the amazing' people of Sousse for their
response to the incident.

He said: "I can't get my head around what has happened. It was like being in a
war zone but I had no machine gun - it was pandemonium.

"Thank God, we have come home safe to our beautiful town, and our friends have
been so good to us here, but I thought that was it.

"I am dazed and haven't been able to sleep. Every time I close my eyes it
replays."

The British death toll is expected to rise to more than 30 once the
identification of victims is completed.

Kevin described the shocking scene as holidaymakers including he and Gary fled
the beach towards the Imperial Mahaba Hotel in the wake of the incident.

He explained that he was talking to Colin, a man in his 70s, in the beach bar
when Rezgui began shooting tourists.

He said: "All of a sudden I heard this bang, the most almighty bang - I thought
it was fireworks.

"I saw this man and there were people - whether they were dead or just fell to
the ground, I don't know.

"Then it was just like pop pop, pop pop' and smoke coming out of it. I said to
Gary and Colin, we have got a problem here', and Gary just stared in disbelief
at what was unfolding."

Kevin watched as tourists ran from the beach into the bar and hid in the
toilets.

He, Gary and Colin joined other holidaymakers in retreating to the Imperial
Mahaba, a walk of around a quarter of a mile, Kevin said.

He added that there was no way of knowing how many terrorists were involved in
the attack.

He said: "He was running across the beach towards the right. He was coming our
way and if he came into the beach bar he is going to have about 70 or 80 people,
and it will be bang, bang, bang'.

"I have never been so frightened. All around us there were grenades going off
and there was gunfire all around."

After reaching the hotel, Kevin and Gary invited Colin, his wife Ruth, and a
younger couple to their room, which was on a higher floor - my priority was to
do what I can to make people safe as best as I could'.

The six sat in the room listening to the gunfire, and feared for their lives
after hearing that Rezgui had stormed the hotel.

They considered barricading themselves in the bathroom, but the attacker soon
left the hotel.

Shortly after, he was shot dead by police.

Kevin visited the resort three times last year and said the staff, some of whom
he knew from previous visits, were amazing'.

He also stressed his guilt at having to leave the country and local people
behind.

He said: "The staff were running down to the beach and I said don't go, you are
going to get shot'. One of them turned around and said it is their job and they
have to go.

"I just want to give something back to the Tunisian people, they were so good. I
felt so guilty for leaving, but our prime concern was our safety.

"The ironic thing is that before I left people said be careful, and I said you
have got more chance of being shot in a high street in the UK."

Following the incident, meetings were held at the hotel where tourists were
ensured that the hotel was in lockdown and that they were safe.

Kevin said he and Gary have been overwhelmed with support from friends since
their return to Horsham.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage

2) Like our Facebook page

3) Follow us on Twitter

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

Always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPCO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Nicola Sturgeon offers 'deepest condolences' as four
Scots are confirmed dead in massacre;
POLICE confirmed today that Billy and Lisa Graham died in the gun attack in
which Jim and Anne McQuire were also killed at the Sousse beach resort on
Friday.

BYLINE: By Hilary Duncanson

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words


THE First Minister has offered her "deepest condolences" to the families of four
Scots killed in the Tunisian massacre following official confirmation of their
deaths.

James and Anne McQuire from Cumbernauld and Billy and Lisa Graham from Bankfoot
, near Perth, died in the attack at the Sousse beach resort on Friday.

Seifeddine Rezgui, a 23-year-old student, shot dead 38 people on the beach in
the atrocity and authorities in Tunisia are quizzing seven of his suspected
associates.

The Grahams were visiting the resort to celebrate Lisa's 50th birthday.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: "My deepest condolences go to the families
and friends of James and Anne McQuire from Cumbernauld and Billy and Lisa Graham
from Bankfoot following official confirmation that they were killed in the
terrorist atrocity that unfolded in Tunisia on Friday.

"The Scottish Government, Police Scotland and our partners will continue to do
everything we possibly can to provide support to their families and everyone
else affected by this incident as they return to Scotland from Tunisia.

"Both families have requested that their privacy is respected at this incredibly
difficult time and I would ask that they are given the appropriate time to
grieve in private."

St Johnstone FC paid tribute to Mr Graham, who had worked on match days at the
club's McDiarmid Park home for seven years.

The club said everyone at McDiarmid Park is "shocked and saddened" to learn of
the death of the turnstile operator.

A statement posted on the official website said the thoughts of everyone at the
club were with the couple's daughter Holly and the rest of the family.

Saints' chairman Steve Brown said: "This is terrible news and our thoughts go
out to the whole family at this time. Billy was part of the St Johnstone family
and a great ambassador for the club who always did his job with a smile on his
face."

The couple had been at the resort celebrating Lisa's 50th birthday, the
statement said.

Perthshire North MSP John Swinney said: "I am deeply sorry that the deaths have
been confirmed of my constituents Billy and Lisa Graham in the terrorist
atrocity in Tunisia. I have spoken with their daughter Holly over the last few
very difficult days, and my heart goes out to her at this tragic news.

"Mr and Mrs Graham were simply enjoying a relaxing holiday when they became
victims of this wicked crime. There are no words that can explain the awfulness
of this act. We must all remain resolute in our determination to defeat
terrorism.

"It has been a difficult and protracted process to secure the identification of
victims and for Mr and Mrs Graham this has resulted in this terrible news.

"Their loss will be felt by the local community in Bankfoot but most acutely by
the family and friends they leave behind. I will give every support I can to
their daughter Holly and her family in the period ahead to assist in any way
that I can.

"This will be a difficult time for the family and we should all respect their
privacy at this time."

We told how Billy Graham had been in the Army for 22 years and retired after
service in Northern Ireland, Kuwait and Iraq.

Mr Graham's older brother Lindsay Graham told the newspaper the family had been
going through "absolute torture" as they waited for information about the
missing couple.

The minister from Cumbernauld Abronhill Church of Scotland recently paid tribute
to Mr and Mrs McQuire, saying they had a close family and would be sorely
missed.

Mr McQuire was a captain in the Boys' Brigade and a number of tributes were
posted on social media on behalf of other brigades.

Prime Minister David Cameron has announced that a minute's silence will be held
in memory of the victims at noon on Friday, a week after the outrage.

Flags are expected to be flown at half-mast over Government departments and
Buckingham Palace that day.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 6:48 PM GMT

Terror attack exercise: Terrifying simulation of terrorist-style gun rampage
staged by police in London;
THE counter-terrorism exercise comes just five days after 38 people - the vast
majority of them Brits - were killed in a terrorist gun massacre in Tunisia.

BYLINE: By Aine Fox

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 513 words


A DISUSED Tube station was the scene of a simulated terror attack today as
police and emergency services responded to reports of shots fired by a group of
men who disappeared into the underground network.

The major counter-terrorism exercise shows that police and other agencies are
ready to face any threat "should we need to", said Metropolitan Police Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Maxine de Brunner.

The large-scale training exercise comes five days after at least 30 Britons were
killed when a gunman attacked holidaymakers on a beach in Tunisia.

While this exercise was planned months before Friday's attack, Ms de Brunner
said it is likely the massacre could inform future training for emergency
services.

Events including the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris, the hostage siege in Sydney
and the 2008 Mumbai attack influenced the test.

Asked about Tunisia Ms de Brunner said: "It is likely that it could be (taken
into account) by a future exercise director."

She was keen to stress that no specific intelligence had informed the two-day
exercise, which continues tomorrow.

The disused Tube station was chosen, she said, because it is a live venue and
being able to close the entrance at Surrey Street minimised disruption to the
the public.

Paramedics and fire officers could be seen carrying casualties, played by
actors, out of the station on stretchers while sirens wailed in the surrounding
streets in Aldwych.

The majority of those taking part had no idea what they would face during the
exercise.

Ms de Brunner said: "What it shows is that we are ready in the event of an
attack and that we are testing ourselves and we are testing our interoperability
with other agencies and where we don't get things quite right, that we take that
learning and we try to be as good as we can be in the event of anything coming
to London."

Among those taking part are all of London's emergency services, Greater London
Authority, Transport for London, Home Office, Cabinet Office, Ministry of
Defence, the Department of Health and NHS England.

As temperatures hit the high 20s officers could be seen with water bottles in
their vests.

The participants were briefed beforehand and advised to drink plenty of water
and ensure they had eaten in order to cope with the heat.

While the exercise is a simulation only, the emergency services were treating it
very seriously, said London Ambulance Service's director of operations Jason
Killens.

"Once they get to the scene where the patients are and those patients are made
up with simulated injuries it becomes very real for them and the training kicks
in," he said.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan Howe earlier said the rate of
arrests for terror offences has increased in the last year.

He said: "It is clear during that time that we've disrupted some very serious
plots and some of those cases are going to the courts.

"We intend first of all to stop them from getting to attack. But should we not
stop the terrorists in their planning, it's essential we disrupt them in any of
the attacks that may take place."

Quick Quiz: News 30/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 5:47 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Perth and Kinross to hold a minute's silence for Billy
and Lisa Graham and other victims;
Provost Liz Grant leads tributes to popular Bankfoot couple killed in Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: By Alison Lowson

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 386 words


Provost Liz Grant has passed on her condolences to the family of Tunisian terror
attack victims Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot.

Provost Grant said: "I am greatly saddened to learn of the deaths of William
(Billy) and Lisa Graham.

"On behalf of all of Perth and Kinross Council I would like to say that our
thoughts are with the Graham family at this tragic time.

"I would also like to pass on the condolences of the Council to all of the
families affected by this horrific attack both here in the UK and abroad.

"On Friday, the Council will observe a minutes silence to remember and pay our
respects to the victims and their families."

Billy's brother Lindsay Graham earlier confirmed the sad news after the couple
had failed to make contact since before the attack on Friday.

Billy and Lisa Graham have not been in contact with their family since the beach
attackBilly and Lisa Graham have not been in contact with their family since the
beach attack

The family faced an agonising four day wait for information on the whereabouts
of the couple.

Yesterday the family told how they were still holding out hopes that the duo
were in a coma and unable to contact home.

But today, Lindsay (53) said: "Just to tell you my brother Billy and his wife
Lisa are dead."

St Johnstone FC have paid tribute to Billy who worked as a matched day turnstile
operator for the club for seven years.

A statement on the club's website said: "Everyone at McDiarmid Park is shocked
and saddened to learn that one of our match day turnstile operators Billy Graham
has now been confirmed as one of those killed in the Tunisian beach shooting on
Friday along with his wife Lisa."

The couple had been at the resort celebrating Lisa's 50th birthday and had been
missing since the attack.

"Billy had worked match days at McDiarmid Park for seven years and Saints'
Chairman Steve Brown has said "This is terrible news and our thoughts go out to
the whole family at this time.

Billy was part of the St Johnstone family and a great ambassador for the club
who always did his job with a smile on his face."

"The thoughts of everyone at the club are with the couple's daughter Holly and
the rest of the family at this very sad time."

The Red Cross has set up a helpline for people affected by the tragedy in
Tunisia. It is open from 8am to 8pm on 0203 417 0260.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 4:12 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Bodies of Britons killed in beach massacre set to be
brought home;
THE UK death toll in Friday's atrocity is expected to reach 30 and the
repatriation process for those confirmed dead will begin on Wednesday and take a
number of days.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 745 words


THE bodies of Britons killed in the Tunisia beach massacre are set to begin
returning tomorrow, as it was confirmed the UK death toll is expected to reach
30.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokeswoman said 21 Britons had already
been "positively identified" as victims of the murder spree, while another nine
are believed to be among the dead.

Authorities in Tunisia are quizzing seven suspected associates of gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui, a 23-year-old student who killed 38 people in the resort of
Sousse on Friday.

In developments today:

· All wounded Britons have been brought back to the UK, with four severely
injured holidaymakers flown home in an RAF C17 transport plane accompanied by
"medevac" teams. They are being treated at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford,
Plymouth and London

· Possible connections between the gunman and extremism in the UK emerged, while
there were reports that the killer was an Islamic State "sleeper" who was
trained in Libya

· The family of a Scottish couple who were unaccounted for said they are dead

· A major exercise to test the preparation of the emergency services for a gun
attack was carried out in London

The Government is "working closely" with the families of those killed in Sousse,
and has offered to arrange for the bodies of their loved ones to be flown by RAF
plane to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire before being transported on to their home
areas, Downing Street said.

The repatriation process is expected to take a number of days.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Mr Cameron addressed senior ministers at Cabinet about the UK's response to
Friday's atrocity and Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond was this afternoon
chairing a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee.

A joint inquest covering all the British victims is to be opened by the West
London coroner.

Mr Cameron has announced that a minute's silence will be held in memory of the
victims at noon on Friday, a week after the outrage. Downing Street said flags
will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments that day.

The Prime Minister spoke yesterday with Tunisia's ambassador in London about
what assistance Britain can give the north African country to improve security
and strengthen its democratic system.

The gunman was linked to Saifallah Ben Hassine, a fanatic who was based in
London for at least three years and a disciple of the cleric Abu Qatada, the
Daily Mail reported today.

Claims have also emerged that Rezgui was part of a five-man terror cell which
has been in existence for four years. A fellow student told Sky News that he
"loved everything they (IS) stood for".

Authorities in Tunisia have issued images of two suspected accomplices they are
hunting.

They have said Rezgui acted alone during the rampage but had accomplices who
supported him before, providing him with weapons and logistical support. Some 80
unregulated mosques believed to preach radical doctrines have been closed.

Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said an investigation was under way into
security failures and there would be armed tourist police on beaches.

The president said heightened security had been planned from July 1 to coincide
with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, but that attacks on sunbathing tourists
had not been anticipated.

Mr Essebsi told Europe 1 radio: "It is not a perfect system - it is true we were
surprised by this affair. They took measures for the month of Ramadan but never
did they think the attack would be on the beaches against tourists, and the
system of protection was set to start July 1."

A relative of Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, near Perth, who had not been
heard of since the attack, said they had died.

The couple were staying in one of the hotels where the terrorist attack
happened.

Mr Graham's older brother Lindsay contacted us with the sad news that the couple
had died .

Police, soldiers, emergency services and intelligence officials are taking part
in London's largest counter-terrorism exercise.

The operation, planned before the Tunisia attack, is testing the response to a
mass firearms attack in the capital.

Tomorrow a key strand of the Government's strategy to counter extremism will
come into force. New legislation passed earlier this year places a statutory
duty on bodies including prisons, schools and universities to prevent
radicalisation.

The Red Cross has set up a helpline for people affected by the tragedy in
Tunisia. It is open from 8am to 8pm on 0203 417 0260.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:54 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Beach killer was not acting alone as manhunt for
accomplice shooter gets underway;
TUNISIAN police sources confirmed they didn't believe Islamic State fanatic
Seifeddine Rezgui was acting alone.

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1138 words


A GUNMAN who helped murder 38 people - mainly Britons - in the Tunisia beach
massacre was believed to be on the run last night.

Police sources in Tunisia last confirmed they did not believe that ISIS fanatic
Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, who was gunned down at the scene, acted alone.

And witness accounts from the returning British survivors, who are being
interviewed by a team of Scotland Yard officers, suggest there might have been
three killers on the beach.

One Brit who escaped the carnage has told of being shot by a gunman carrying a
pistol - not the Kalashnikov which appeared to be the only weapon carried by
Rezgui.

Two British former police officers described seeing a bare-chested gunman in red
shorts carrying an assault rifle.

And although explosives were used in the attack on holidaymakers on Friday,
Rezgui, who was wearing a black shorts and top, did not appear to have any means
of carrying grenades.

A police source in Sousse said last night: "I can't say too much but what I can
say is there were two terrorists. There were two gunmen."

One possibility being explored is that at least one terrorist could have been
shot dead in the mayhem inside the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The Tunisian Interior Ministry confirmed yesterday that seven people, suspected
of being part of Rezgui's support network, had been arrested.

Locals saw Rezgui throw his mobile phone into the sea after he took it apart in
the midst of the massacre.

It was found just off shore close to the scene yesterday, and handed to
authorities. Police are checking the handset for what could be vital information
on his contacts.

The possibility of a more than one terrorist being involved in the shooting came
as further details emerged on Rezgui.

Video: Tunisia Attack - David Cameron claims this is not a war between Islam and
The West

Tunisian police now believe he was part of a terror cell of up to 10 extremists
based in Kairouan, just inland of Sousse, where he was a student.

Two of the young men who shared a house with him in Kairouan are wanted by
police.

They have not been seen since Friday and they are being sought by Tunisian
authorities who are now being supported by Scotland Yard.

He was trained for jihad in Libya for two years, according to reports in
Tunisia.

Despite claims by authorities that he had never been abroad, it is feared he got
into Libya through the vulnerable desert border, and was trained by extremists
in the town of Sirte.

Hours after the attack, ISIS in Libya claimed responsibility, "celebrating" the
massacre.

It is believed Rezgui carried out reconnaissance for a month on the scene of the
slaughter, in which at least 30 Britons are believed to have died.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Former British policeman Steve Johnson, 65, told how he and wife Valerie, 64,
were with fellow retired officer Michael Perry, 66, and his wife Angela, 59,
when they saw a man in red shorts shooting at people on sun-loungers.

Steve said he and his friends escaped to the hotel and were found in their
hiding place by a Tunisian policeman.

He said: "It was 40 minutes later when a Tunisian policeman came to get us and
he took us through a corridor from the spa to the hotel.

"On the floor was a body, covered with a sheet, but I could see he was the right
build and colouring of the shooter I'd seen - and he had red shorts on.

"Then we saw that it was being reported that there was just a single shooter.

"I went back to see the Tunisian policeman who said the guy in red had
definitely been shot. But the second shooter is not being reported and I don't
know why."

Kirsty Murray, 25, was wounded by a man with a handgun - and is convinced it was
not Rezgui.

She was at the Hotel Marhaba pool with fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29, when
Rezgui opened fire on the beach.

The nursery nurse, from Essex, says her injuries were from a small-calibre
weapon and not Rezgui's AK-47.

Speaking from the hospital where she is being treated, her father Neil said:
"They started running toward the hotel.

"They both ran down the same corridor and then a grenade went off in a really
confined space.

"Radley got most of the blast in his legs, and she only got a bit of it so she
kept running.

"She ended up at a dead end and that's when he shot her in the legs, at close
range.

"Both Kirsty and her fiance have said there was more than one gunman. One person
is not capable of doing that much damage."

One elderly British guest at the Marhaba said: "It is hard to know but there
appeared to be more than one person firing. The problem is so many of the people
have now gone home."

Around 5000 Britons have flown home since Friday.

Video: Tunisia terror attacks - tourists arrive back to Glasgow

A SCOTS ex-soldier who used tablecloths to cover victims of the massacre has
relived the hellish scenes he witnessed.

Red Cross trainer Brian Harrison, 56, was in the Imperial Hotel spa when he
heard the first shots.

And when he walked on to the beach minutes later, he saw the full horror of what
the gunmen had done.

Dad-of-two Brian, from Aberdeen, comforted survivors, treated the wounded and
helped cover the dead with tablecloths taken from the hotel.

He told the Record: "It was horrendous. The first person I encountered who was
breathing was a French woman. She was in shock and I tried to comfort her but I
can't speak French.

"I got a member of the hotel staff to come and speak to her because she was
sitting looking at her two dead friends.

"They were lying, covered with towels, in front of her."

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

Former Scots Guard Brian was having a spa treatment with his wife when the
fanatics attacked.

He recalled: "We came out and there were a lot of folk running about in the spa
building. It looks out on to the pool and beach.

"Someone told us there had been a guy shooting on the beach."

Brian and his wife, a surgical nurse, hurried to the hotel reception.

He said: "The first person we came across in the lobby was a gentleman crouched
in a corner. I spoke to him but it was obvious he wasn't breathing.

"I shouted over to a member of staff to put a towel over the top of him.

"There was also a guy with an abdominal wound so my wife went to him.

"I grabbed napkins and tablecloths and we went to the pool and beach area to see
what we could do.

"I covered a couple of people up with tablecloths on the way. On the beach it
was just bedlam."

Brian went to hospital with a woman from England whose arm had been broken by
gunfire. She told him her husband had been killed.

He then returned to the hotel and offered to help local Red Crescent volunteers.
He tried to comfort a son looking for his father - then the lad's mum arrived
and told him his dad had been killed.

The Red Cross has set up a helpline for people affected by the tragedy in
Tunisia. It is open from 8am to 8pm on 0203 417 0260.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:35 PM GMT

Firms slash prices on holidays in Tunisia after terror attack

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 418 words


HOLIDAY companies have slashed prices on breaks to Tunisia after a gunman
massacred almost 40 tourists.

Firms are offering almost 50% discounts on holidays to the North African country
in the wake of Friday's tragedy as holidaymakers grow wary of visiting the
nation.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui slaughtered 39 tourists on a beach in the resort of
Sousse on Friday - with fears 30 of those killed are Brits.

Thomas Cook have cut 18-47% off eight holidays to Sousse in July.

It is also offering a 47% discount for a seven night, half board stay at the
five-star Movenpick Resort and Spa.

An online discount of £842 would mean two adults paying £934 for a twin room and
flights from London to Gatwick and Enfhida in Tunisia.

The resort is a 20 minute from from Hotel Imperial Marhaba where Rezgui carried
out Friday's attack.

A seven night all inclusive holiday for two adults at the Marhaba Club is now
online £430 through Thomas Cook.

Around 4,000 Thomas Cook UK guests have left Tunisia since the attack.

Thomson spokesman

A spokesman for the company said the hotel where the attack took place is not
offered by Thomas Cook.

They added that following Friday's attack, Thomas Cook is offering its customers
due to travel to Tunisia up to and including July 12, the opportunity to cancel
or change their holiday free of charge.

For those travelling from July 1 onwards, customers are able to amend their
bookings to the country free of charge for holidays departing until October 31.

Holiday firm Thomson is also offering discounted holidays to Tunisia.

The biggest discount is for the Hotel Thalassa Sousse, flying from Bristol on
July 12 and returning on July 19.

A spokesman for Thomson said customers planning to travel to Tunisia up until
the end of October 31 would be able to amend their holidays free of charge to
any of the company's other destinations.

She added that the company have extended the cancellation of all their holidays
to Tunisia up to and including July 9, with those planning to travel during this
time given the chance to change or cancel their holiday free of charge.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Brit couple named latest victims as RAF
fly home injured Tunisia terror attack: Did THREE gunmen open fire on sunbathing
Brits? Islamic State-inspired Tunisian beach butcher took 'trophy' photos of
slaughtered tourists UK TERROR ALERT: Cops to stage huge mock mass shooting
exercise  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:11 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Family of Scots couple Billy and Lisa Graham confirm they
died during massacre;
BILLY'S brother Lindsay Graham contacted the Record to pass on the news after
the couple had failed to make contact since before the attack on Friday.

BYLINE: By Sarah Vesty

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words


THE FAMILY of Billy and Lisa Graham have had the sad confirmation that they died
during the Tunisian massacre.

Billy's brother Lindsay Graham contacted the Record to pass on the news after
the couple had failed to make contact since before the attack on Friday.

The family faced an agonising four day wait for information on the whereabouts
of the couple, who are from Bankfoot, Perth.

Video: Tunisia terror attacks - tourists arrive back to Glasgow

Yesterday the family told how they were still holding out hopes that the duo
were in a coma and unable to contact home.

But today in a message to the Record, Lindsay, 53, said: "Just to tell you my
brother Billy and his wife Lisa are dead."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

St Johnstone FC have paid tribute to Billy who worked as a matched day turnstile
operator for the club for seven years.

A statement on the club's website said: "Everyone at McDiarmid Park is shocked
and saddened to learn that one of our match day turnstile operators Billy Graham
has now been confirmed as one of those killed in the Tunisian beach shooting on
Friday along with his wife Lisa."

The couple, from Bankfoot, had been at the resort celebrating Lisa's 50th
birthday and had been missing since the attack.

"Billy had worked match days at McDiarmid Park for seven years and Saints'
Chairman Steve Brown has said "This is terrible news and our thoughts go out to
the whole family at this time.

Billy was part of the St Johnstone family and a great ambassador for the club
who always did his job with a smile on his face."

"The thoughts of everyone at the club are with the couple's daughter Holly and
the rest of the family at this very sad time."

The Red Cross has set up a helpline for people affected by the tragedy in
Tunisia. It is open from 8am to 8pm on 0203 417 0260.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:10 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Scots ex-soldier used TABLECLOTH to treat wounded after
beach bloodbath;
RED Cross trainer Brian Harrison, 56, was in the Imperial Hotel spa when he
heard the first shots.

BYLINE: By Paul O'Hare

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


A SCOTS ex-soldier who used tablecloths to cover victims of the massacre has
relived the hellish scenes he witnessed.

Red Cross trainer Brian Harrison, 56, was in the Imperial Hotel spa when he
heard the first shots.

And when he walked on to the beach minutes later, he saw the full horror of what
the gunmen had done.

Video: Tunisia terror attacks - tourists arrive back to Glasgow

Dad-of-two Brian, from Aberdeen, comforted survivors, treated the wounded and
helped cover the dead with tablecloths taken from the hotel.

He told the Record: "It was horrendous. The first person I encountered who was
breathing was a French woman. She was in shock and I tried to comfort her but I
can't speak French.

"I got a member of the hotel staff to come and speak to her because she was
sitting looking at her two dead friends.

"They were lying, covered with towels, in front of her."

Former Scots Guard Brian was having a spa treatment with his wife when the
fanatics attacked.

He recalled: "We came out and there were a lot of folk running about in the spa
building. It looks out on to the pool and beach.

"Someone told us there had been a guy shooting on the beach."

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

Brian and his wife, a surgical nurse, hurried to the hotel reception.

He said: "The first person we came across in the lobby was a gentleman crouched
in a corner. I spoke to him but it was obvious he wasn't breathing.

"I shouted over to a member of staff to put a towel over the top of him.

"There was also a guy with an abdominal wound so my wife went to him.

"I grabbed napkins and tablecloths and we went to the pool and beach area to see
what we could do.

"I covered a couple of people up with tablecloths on the way. On the beach it
was just bedlam."

Brian went to hospital with a woman from England whose arm had been broken by
gunfire. She told him her husband had been killed.

He then returned to the hotel and offered to help local Red Crescent volunteers.
He tried to comfort a son looking for his father - then the lad's mum arrived
and told him his dad had been killed.

The Red Cross has set up a helpline for people affected by the tragedy in
Tunisia. It is open from 8am to 8pm on 0203 417 0260.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: RAF fly home injured Brits as more victims are named

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer, Tom Rawle, Michael Havis, Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 1099 words


FOUR Brits seriously injured in the Tunisia beach horror have been flown back to
the UK by the RAF.

Officials have said all those hurt at the popular tourist resort near Sousse
will be brought home today.

Fears are rising that the number of Brits killed in the terror attack is
expected to reach at least 30.

So far 18 of the 38 victims who died after Islamist gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire on a Sousse beach were from the UK.

The Queen has said she and Prince Philip were "shocked" by the atrocity while
David Cameron has announced a national minute of silence will be held on Friday
to commemorate those killed.

Mr Cameron told the House of Commons on Monday: "I know the whole country will
want to share in a moment of remembrance.

"So following the act of remembrance we have just held in this House, we will
have a national minute's silence on Friday at 12 noon, one week on from the
moment of the attack."

The four injured returned to the UK this morning on a specially modified RAF C17
transport plane.

The Ministry of Defence said it was working with the NHS to get each patient to
the "best hospital in their area for their needs".

British police have been put on high alert across the country with fears a
terrorist attack may happen closer to home.

Scotland Yard announced that officers in London would be taking part in a
two-day exercise to prepare for such a threat.

Among those Britons and Irish confirmed dead are ex-footballer Denis Thwaites,
70, and his 69-year-old wife Elaine.

The couple texted relatives to say they had arrived safely on Wednesday and were
staying at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

But the family began to worry when they lost contact after Seifeddine Rezgui,
24, opened fire on western tourists at the beach.

Winger Denis first broke into Birmingham City first team at the age of 16.

Birmingham City are mourning the deaths of Denis and Elaine Thwaites. May they
both rest in peace http://t.co/1LmC7YGAfJ

- Birmingham City FC June 29, 2015

The couple's son-in-law Daniel Clifford said: "We were told by a Thomson rep
through a friend that they were injured in hospital but this turned out not to
be true.

"It is just horrendous. We haven't had any advice from the Foreign Office.

"My whole thing is my wife - it's her mother and father.

"They only arrived on Wednesday and texted us on Thursday to say they were all
fine and starting to enjoy their holiday."

Joel Richards, 19, his uncle Adrian Evans, aged in his 40s and Joel's
grandfather Patrick Evans, 78, were also among those murdered.

Tributes have been left outside Walsall FC's Banks' Stadium for the lifelong
fans.

One read: "A pleasure to know you Joel. You were a talented young lad with an
amazing future ahead of you.

"I will never forget the games and experiences we've shared together. A true
friend - you'll never be forgotten. RIP mate love Reevesy."

Lisa Burbidge, from Gateshead, also died in what has been described as "the
worst terror attack" since the 7/7 bombings.

In a statement Ms Burbidge's family said: "We are devastated with the tragic
loss of the most beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle person in our lives. We
have been left with a massive hole in our hearts."

Carly Lovett, 24, was the first British victim to be named.

The fashion and beauty blogger, from Lincolnshire, was on holiday with her
fiancé when she was shot.

Irishwoman Lorna Carty from County Meath died after going to the beach to
sunbathe while her husband, recovering from heart surgery, stayed inside.

A statement from the Dunderry Gaelic Athletic Association said: "Lorna was
always there to give a helping hand with all of our teams and events. She was
greatly loved in our community and will be dearly missed."

Couple Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley were confirmed dead after Ms Davey's son led
a frantic search for information on social media.

Conor Fulford, from Tamworth, Staffordshire, tweeted: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to
tell you we lost my mother Sue Davey tonight but I want to thank everybody that
tried to help me & my family."

Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area of Suffolk, is believed to have died
instantly.

His wife, who was with him, was injured but survived and has returned to the UK.

Trudy Jones, of Blackwood in Gwent, south Wales, was described by her family as
"our beautiful mother". Ms Jones was a 51-year-old divorced single
mother-of-four and had been on holiday with her friends.

In a statement released through Gwent police her family said: "Our mother of all
people didn't deserve this, such a caring person who put everyone else before
herself.

"Always willing to help others, she loved everyone around her including all of
the people she cared for at work.

"She'll be missed by so many people. She was the rock of our family and kept us
all going. None of us have a clue how we're going to cope without her."

Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from Goole, East Yorkshire, was among the dead. His family
issued a statement through local MP Andrew Percy paying tribute to the
grandfather, reported to have been a retired power station worker.

They said: "We are devastated at the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted husband,
father and grandfather.

"Bruce was a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the
care of others. He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry sense of humour.
He was fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike."

Claire Windass from Hull died but her husband Jim is said to have survived the
attack.

Karl Turner, MP for East Hull tweeted: "So sorry Claire Windass from Hull was
killed in Tunisia terrorist attack. My thoughts with family & friends. RIP."

Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, died in the
ISIS-inspired attack with their local minister saying the pair would be sorely
missed.

Another husband and wife Laurence and Martina Hayes, both in their 50s, from
Athlone in Co Westmeath were killed.

Mr Hayes was a schools transport inspector who had worked for transport company
Bus Eireann for the last 20 years.

A company spokeswoman said Mr Hayes was "highly regarded on both a personal and
professional level, by all his colleagues at Bus Eireann".

Co Westmeath GAA tweeted a message of condolence to the family: "Sincere
sympathy to the Hayes family Athlone who suffered their tragic losses in the
terror shooting in Tunisia."

Engineer Stephen Mellor, from Bodmin in Cornwall, was killed as he shielded his
wife Cheryl on the beach.

The nurse told the Mirror: "I was screaming at people to check him and someone
looked and they said he had no pulse. They said he was gone."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Muslim families need to act to avoid terror attack in UK, warns Cameron

BYLINE: Peter Dominiczak ;Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 185 words


BRITISH Muslims must report concerns about family members or friends becoming
radicalised or they risk a terror attack in Britain as deadly as the one in
Tunisia, David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister said Muslims "need to act" if relatives are seeing extremist
preachers or visiting radical websites.

He warned that the Government must "raise our game" and ensure Muslims "want to
integrate" into society. He also said that Britain would observe a minute's
silence on Friday for victims of the Tunisian massacre.

A total of 38 people, including up to 30 Britons, died in the attack, for which
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant has claimed responsibility.

Asked about the possibility of an attack on British soil, Mr Cameron said:
"Anybody who has any information about someone who is going wrong, who is
getting radicalised, who is visiting either extremist preachers or looking at
extremism online... anyone who is worried about that needs to act, because
otherwise it could end in the way that it has in the last few days."

Mr Cameron urged British Muslims to "stand up" against extremism.

Reports: Pages 14-15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tourists mourn at the site of the shooting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

FORCES' TERROR EXERCISE TO TEST ATTACK RESPONSE ON BRITISH SOIL

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 133 words


THOUSANDS of Special Forces troops and police marksmen will today test their
ability to stop a terrorist attack on UK soil.

Elite troops, counter-terrorism officers and spies will respond to mock attacks
at locations across London in their biggest ever exercise.

Exercise Strong Tower will test response times and co-ordination at Canary
Wharf, the disused Aldwych tube station and an undisclosed bank and hotel. More
than 1,000 police officers - many armed - will take part alongside 400 troops
from the Armed Forces and SAS personnel.

David Cameron told the House of Commons yesterday: Over the next two days our
security forces and emergency services will conduct a major training exercise in
London to test and refine the UK's preparedness for dealing with a serious
terrorist attack.'

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Tributes paid to Hampshire victim of Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


TRIBUTES have been paid to a Hampshire man  thought to be one of the British
victims of a terror attack in Tunisia.

David Thompson, of The Green, Tadley has been named locally as being one of the
people killed in the terrorist attack on a beach near Sousse last Friday.

Thirty-eight people lost their lives in the attack carried out by Seifeddine
Rezgui and thirty of those victims are expected to be confirmed as British.

Neighbours have told The Gazette that David, who is thought to be 80, was on
holiday in Tunisia with his partner Anne at the time of the attack and they
described him as a "very active person".

Claire Chambers, 58, said she would exchange Christmas cards with the couple,
adding: "It is a huge tragedy and I think the other (sad) thing is he was very
fit and went running. He was incredibly fit.

"It is just dreadful and I don't know how the witnesses of it would get over
that.

"People who didn't lose anybody also experienced being over there. They were so
far from safety and the beach was close to the hotel and he went into the hotel
and it is just awful.

"It is truly dreadful and you don't imagine it to happen so close to home. It
has been quite a shock. It is just so sad."

Other neighbours described the attack as "tragic" and a "sad situation" and said
it was sad that someone so fit and active has been killed.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not confirmed the identity of any of the
British victims.

In a statement in the House of Commons yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron
said: "It is with great sadness that I have to tell the House that we now know
at least 18 British nationals have been killed, with more injured and the death
toll is likely to rise still further.

"Mr Speaker these were innocent British holidaymakers, people who had saved up
for a special time away with their friends and family, and who suddenly became
the victims of the most brutal terrorist attack against British people for many
years.

"I am sure the whole House will join me in sending our deepest condolences to
the families and friends of all those who have lost loved ones. And I know the
whole country will want to share in a moment of remembrance."

A minute's silence will be held across the country on Friday to remember the
victims of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Family anger at Glasgow 'Jihadi bride' praise for terror attack

BYLINE: Linzi Watson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 126 words


THE family of the Glasgow 'Jihadi bride' have slammed her for praising the
Tunisian terrorist attacks in which 30 Brits were massacred.

Aqsa Mahmood left Pollokshields for Syria in 2013 to become a so-called 'Jihadi
bride' at the age of 19.

In her online blog Umm Layth, the extremist posted a hate-filled poem about the
attacks in which she said Friday's atrocities would "go down in history" as a
"day of resistance and memory".

She said: "In three different locations a family was born. Its name was change,
freedom and revenge."

Aqsa's family issued a statement through their lawyer which said: "Whilst their
daughter may have destroyed any chance of happiness for her own family, they are
sickened that she now celebrates the heartbreak of other families".

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ETI


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 3:41 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Briton widowed and unable to speak begs for wedding ring
in note

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 415 words


A HEARTBROKEN wife found clinging on to her dead husband after the Tunisia beach
massacre has written a heart-rending note from her hospital bed asking for her
wedding ring.

IG

Gina Von Dort clung on to dead husband Chris Dyer after Tunisia terror attack

Gina Von Dort, 30, of Watford, refused to let go of her husband Chris Dyer when
doctors came to drag her to safety.

The surveyor, who lost an eye, is left unable to speak after the horrific
ordeal.

She had been married to Mr Dyer for two years and the couple were in the second
week of their holiday when they were showered with shrapnel.

They ran into the front garden of the Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel in Sousse when
they were struck.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: RAF jet brings home Britons wounded
in...  Tunisia terror attack: 'There WERE two gunmen' admit police as...

Mr Dyer, 32, an engineer, was shot in the head and died on the lawn.

Ms Von Dort was shot in the chin with the bullet exiting through her eye. She
was so badly injured she lost the eye and has had to have surgery to her
windpipe to help her breathe.

Paramedics could initially not tear her away from Mr Dyer.

Ms Von Dort was flown back to Britain in the early hours of this morning in an
RAF plane.

IG

Ms Von Dort would not let her tragic husband Chris Dyer go

Before she left she found the strength to ask doctors via a written note to find
her wedding ring, which had to be removed before she underwent surgery.

Dr Hajer Kraiem who treated Ms Von Dort said: "Her husband was dead.

"I went to the hotel and there were three victims dead and then I saw Gina, she
was hugging her husband.

"She didn't want to leave him. When we tried to bring her to the ambulance she
held tighter. Maybe she didn't know he was dead.

GETTY

Casualties were taken to Britain by RAF today

"She had major facial trauma and she couldn't speak. She was conscious but she
couldn't speak, the sound was incomprehensible."

Dr Kraiem believes Ms Von Dort was struck by a bomb or grenade.

She went back to visit Ms Von Dort after surgery because the medic didn't want
to remember her only by her horrific injuries.

It was then Ms Von Dort wrote a thank you note and added: "Bring me my ring."

Dr Kraiem added: "She was very strong."

Related articles Tunisia attack: Holidays to Sousse cancelled as thousands of
Britons arrive home Tunisia terror attack: Desperate relatives appeal for news
over fate of loved ones Terror on London's streets: Emergency service crews
tackle 'gunman' in drill scenario

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:59 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'There WERE two gunmen' admit police as they hunt for
suspects

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 538 words


TUNISIAN police are hunting suspects over Friday's beach massacre as they
admitted there WERE two gunmen after all.

IG

Mohamed bin Abdallah, 24, and Rafikhe Tayari, 28, are suspected of assisting
Seifeddine Rezgui

Eyewitnesses are continuing to report there was more than one gunman who
peppered holidaymakers with bullets, despite the Tunisian authorities claiming
only Seifeddine Rezgui was behind the attack.

Last night a Tunisian security source said: "I can't say too much but I can say
there were two terrorists. There were two gunmen."

Police have arrested seven people in the hunt for the group who helped Rezgui
carry out his brutal massacre.

Images have now been released by the authorities showing two more 'dangerous'
men, who are on the run, suspected of assisting Rezgui.

They are Mohamed bin Abdallah, 24, from northern Tunisia, and Rafikhe Tayari,
28, of Tunis.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Desperate relatives appeal for news
over...  Tunisia terror attack: RAF jet brings home Britons wounded in...

The Tunisian Interior Ministry has asked for information on their whereabouts.

They said the pair did not participate in the shootings, but are believed to
have helped Rezgui.

Rezgui was seen shooting his Kalashnikov gun while wearing shorts and a T-shirt.

ITV

Tunisia terror attack victim Kirsty Murray said she remembered a man with a
pistol

But many victims have recalled seeing another man firing shots wearing red
shorts and no shirt.

There could have even been three shooters as stories from victims emerge.

One wounded woman, Kirsty Murray, 25, of Braintree, Essex, said she was shot
with a handgun.

Video footage shows Rezgui running through the hotel complex shooting, but does
not show grenades being thrown.

However, two other victims, ex-policemen Steve Johnson and Michael Perry, said
homemade bombs were thrown at them.

Mr Perry, who was on holiday with his wife Angela as well as Mr Johnson and his
wife Valerie, said: "I heard the noise of what sounded like gun shots. I looked
to my left and saw a tall slim man in black with a gun pointing towards the
ground that I now know to be Rezgui.

ENTERPRISE

Nursery nurse Kirsty Murray with fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29

"We went up onto the third floor. There was a balcony that had greenhouse style
windows that you could see out from.

"I saw a young man who was bare-chested and wearing bright red shorts, carrying
a large assault rifle, moving from the building toward the beach.

"He was stooped, looking around and pointing his gun wherever he went. I didn't
see him shoot anyone and theoretically he could have been a member of the public
or staff who just picked up a gun from a dead police officer but his behaviour
wasn't what I would have expected if that was the case.

"A senior Tunisian policeman, in a pale blue shirt and navy trousers, showed us
a picture of Rezgui's dead body and I confirmed that was the man I had seen.

"When I asked about the guy in the red shorts he just said: 'We shot him'."

Related articles Could TURKEY be next? ISIS terror threat to MILLIONS of
holidaymakers How safe is your holiday destination? Map of tourist hotspots with
terror threat levels REVEALED: Mentor of Tunisian gunman 'ran global terror
network from London'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:41 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: RAF jet brings home Britons wounded in beach massacre

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 606 words


BRITONS wounded in the Tunisia beach massacre have been flown home by the RAF
today.

GETTY

A casualty from the Tunisia terror attack is taken from Sahloul hospital in
Sousse to Britain

The C17 plane flew four injured Britons, still in need of treatment, into Brize
Norton, Oxfordshire, after a short stop at Birmingham Airport in the early hours
of this morning.

One of the patients is being treated at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

A specialist "medvac" team, experienced in transporting injured servicemen and
women back from operations abroad, were on board the flight.

Two others of those wounded by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui are expected to arrive
back in the UK in the next 24 hours.

The Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham has confirmed it is treating one
patient airlifted from Tunisia.

The hospital is one of the region's major trauma centres with expertise in
treating the most seriously injured patients, including service personnel
wounded during the conflict in Afghanistan.

A spokesman for University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, which runs
the hospital, said: "A patient has been admitted to the QEHB following medical
evacuation from Tunisia.

"The patient arrived at 12.45am today following transfer from Birmingham
International Airport and is being assessed by the hospital's multi-disciplinary
team to determine their ongoing care pathway.

"The team is being coordinated by Professor Sir Keith Porter, the Trust's
clinical lead for trauma."

Speaking outside the hospital, Sir Keith told Sky News: "I can confirm that in
the early hours of this morning we did receive a single patient back from
Tunisia

"At this stage I am not in a position to be able to tell you the extent of their
injuries.

"At the moment the patient is being seen by a multi-disciplinary team to plan
their ongoing treatment."

Related articles  Tunisia attack: Holidays to Sousse cancelled as thousands
of...  Tunisia terror attack: Desperate relatives appeal for news over...

The news comes as 20 of the Britons killed in Friday's terrorist attack in
Sousse have been named.

Up to 30 victims are expected to be confirmed as British.

Tunisia estimates it will lose £327million in tourism revenue following the
attack, which left 39 dead - including the killer.

GETTY

An RAF C17 transport plane landed in Brize Norton in Oxfordshire this morning

The north African country's tourism industry makes up seven per cent of the
country's gross domestic product .

Last year Tunisia made £1.24billion from tourism.

Tunisia's tourism minister Salm Loumi said: "The attack had a great impact on
the economy, the losses will be large."

David Cameron has declared a national minute's silence for victims of the
attack, to take place at noon on Friday.

GETTY

A Royal Air Force C17 aircraft arrives at Birmingham Airport from Tunisia

London's biggest ever mock terrorist attack will be staged across the capital
today to test emergency services.

The "major live play exercise" will involve a number of locations and may even
involve the Prime Minister.

Officers began planning the test day in January and officers said it was not in
response to any threat, or the recent Tunisia atrocity.

Deputy assistant commissioner of the Met Police and director of the exercise,
Maxine de Brunner, said Scotland Yard believed there had never been an exercise
of this magnitude and it would be "very realistic".

Related articles Security stepped up at Muslim graves after 'hate crime' attack
in wake of Tunisia massacre Tunisia terror attack: Ex-Birmingham City footballer
Denis Thwaites and wife killed REVEALED: Mentor of Tunisian gunman 'ran global
terror network from London'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

POLICE PREPARE FOR LONE WOLF TERROR ATTACK ON OUR STREETS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6 words


TUNISIA MASSACRE LATEST: SEE PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Family of Tunisia terror attack victim Carly Lovett pay tribute to their
beautiful shining light'

LENGTH: 221  words


The family of Gainsborough terror attack victim Carly Lovett have this evening
paid tribute to their beautiful shining light'.

Carly, 24, was among the first victims to be named following the hotel bloodbath
at the beach resort of El Kantaoui, north of Sousse.

The statement says: "Carly's parents, Joanne and Kev, fiancé Liam, sister
Jordan, brother Daniel, stepfather John, stepmother Tracey, and step brothers
Simon and Max, would like to thank everyone for their kind words of support at
this very difficult time.

"Carly was and always will be our beautiful shining light; she was funny,
clever, artistic and radiated love and happiness around her.

"Carly recently got engaged to Liam, her childhood sweetheart of 10 years.  Both
were excited and looking forward to a bright future together filled with love
and happiness.  This has now been cruelly taken away.

"To move forward through this we will try to do what we believe Carly would want
and that is to love, cherish and support each other.

"The support received from family, friends and people we don't know has been
overwhelming and has been a great comfort to us all.

"Carly, may you soar with the angels and we pray with all our hearts that this
evil, and such disregard for human life, will end so no other family will feel
the pain that we do today and always will."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Gainsborough Town Council to hold one minute silence for Carly Lovett who was
killed in the Tunisia terror attack at next meeting

LENGTH: 176  words


The Mayor of Gainsborough has offered his support to Carly's friends and family
and the town council will hold a minutes silence at its next meeting next month.

Coun Matthew Boles said: "I am sure we where all appalled and sickened when we
first heard about the events in Tunisia on Friday."

"Unfortunately it has now affected our local community with devastating
consequences following the realisation that Gainsborough lady Carly Lovett was
sadly amongst the innocent victims."

"I am sure no words can offer any comfort or peace of mind to Carly's family,
friends and fiancé at this awful time and as a father myself I cannot start to
understand the pain they must feel at this moment."

"But on behalf of Gainsborough Town Council and the Gainsborough community as a
whole I would like to offer my heart felt condolences and prayers to all that
knew Carly."

"As a council we will do anything we possibly can to support the family and
friends and as a mark of respect a minutes silence will be held in Carly's
memory at our next full council meeting on 7th July."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

West Lindsey District Council pay their respects to Carly Lovett and all the
other victims of the Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 127  words


A minute silence will take place at the next full council meeting in
Gainsborough to pay respects to the victims of the Tunisia attack, including
Carly Lovett from Gainsborough.

Leader of the council, Coun Jeff Summers said: "I would like to offer our
condolences to Carly Lovett's family and friends and to all those who lost loved
ones."

"I was deeply saddened to hear an armed gunman opened fire on a popular tourist
beach in the city of Sousse, taking so many lives."

"As leader of West Lindsey District Council I would like to offer our sincerest
condolences to all the families and friends of those who were killed or injured.
Our thoughts and prayers are with you all."

The council will observe a one minute silence at the next Full Council on Monday
27th July.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 3:29 PM GMT

Tunisia attack - the unanswered questions;
Four days after dozens of tourists were killed in a terrorist attack on a beach
hotel near Sousse, the Tunisian authorities have given few details of what
happened. Here is a roundup of what we still don't know

BYLINE: Chris Stephen in Sousse and Matthew Weaver

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words

How many attackers were there?

The Tunisian authorities have said the attack at the Imperial Marhaba beach
hotel in the resort of Port El Kantaoui was carried out by 23-year-old student
Seifeddine Rezgui, who was shot dead in a side street after killing 38 people.
Clean-shaven and dressed in black, Rezgui appeared to be filmed during his
rampage wielding a rifle. Some witnesses said they saw another man dressed in
red shorts shooting at tourists. But others have said they saw a man in red
shorts with a gun trying to stop the attacker. Witness Tom Richards, a civil
engineering graduate, told the Guardian he saw a gunman with a beard shoot two
tourists in the head. "He was maybe 20 or 25. He had long black hair and a
beard," he said. Local radio said police captured a second gunman, but this has
not been confirmed by officials. The extremist group Islamic State later claimed
responsibility for the attack and referred to Rezgui by a nom de guerre, Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani. It did not mention anyone else.

Are the Tunisian authorities looking for anyone else?


Police in Tunisia have named two men they are trying to track down in connection
with the attack without explaining why. They also issued photographs of the two
men: Mohammed al Charadi, 23, a student from the city of Bizerte and Rafik al
Tayari, a 24-year-old from a suburb of Tunis. So far seven people have been
arrested including Rezgui's flatmate in Kairouan, south-west of Sousse.
Announcing the arrests Tunisia's interior minister Najem Gharsalli pledged that
the authorities would go after "anyone who provided any logistical or financial
assistance" to the killer.

How many weapons were used?

One of the survivors, Kirsty Murray, said she was hit in the legs by a man with
a handgun. The Tunisian authorities have suggested there was just one gunman
with a rifle. Tunisia's interior minister, Rafik Chelli, said Rezgui had hidden
a Kalashnikov in a beach umbrella and began "shooting wildly". Witnesses later
said Rezgui threw at least one grenade into a staff area in the hotel. This has
yet to be confirmed, and no grenade damage has been shown, but a loud explosion
can be heard in video of the incident.

Later video showed a man dressed in black running away on the beach with a gun.

How did the attacker(s) get on the beach?

Details are still sketchy and unconfirmed, but witnesses said a gunman arrived
on the beach by jet ski or speedboat at about 11.30am on Friday morning. No jet
skis or speedboats have been recovered to firm up the claim. There has even been
speculation that the attacker, or attackers, arrived in a plane seen flying low
over the resort at the time. No evidence has been produced to explain how the
attacker reached the beach.

Have witnesses been interviewed by police?

Survivors have told the Guardian they have not been approached by the police to
provide witness statements about what they saw.

What are the British police doing in Tunisia?

A team of 16 British police officers, including senior detectives and specialist
forensic officers, has been sent to Tunisia. Scotland Yard could not confirm
whether the team has been given access to the crime scene.

What were Rezgui's motives?

Tunisia's prime minister, Habib Essid, said Rezgui had been mainly radicalised
online and that he may have spent time in neighbouring Libya. Essid told CNN
information had been received that he belonged to an organisation and he was
close to a mosquethat provided "intellectual" training. According to an
unconfirmed report, Rezgui was linked to Saifallah Ben Hassine, a fanatic who
was based in London for at least three years and a disciple of the radical
cleric Abu Qatada.

How long did it take the authorities to respond?

Video footage shows the gunman rampaging through the hotel for several minutes
without any response from the security services. Intermittent gunfire can be
heard in an 11-minute sequence, while tourists who survived the attack said the
shooting lasted for about 20 minutes. Some tourists said it it was more than an
hour before they were rescued from the ordeal.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:16 PM GMT

Police conduct London's largest ever terror attack training exercise;
More than 1,000 police officers are taking part in two-day exercise that will
also involve emergency services, intelligence officers and the MoD

BYLINE: Jessica Elgot

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


London's police are this week conducting the capital's largest ever terror
training exercise, preparing for a "marauding attack" less than a week after the
massacre in Tunisia.

More than 1,000 police personnel, as well as intelligence officers and other
emergency services, were taking part in the exercise - codenamed Strong Tower.

But the Metropolitan police stressed that the training, which will include many
armed officers, was not being carried out because of any intelligence about an
imminent attack and had been planned since January.

The exercise will involve London's transport authorities, hospitals and the
Ministry of Defence. The cabinet's Cobra committee will also meet as part of the
exercise.

The Met warned training would be "noisy and visible in places" and said it was
vital the public was reassured that gunshots and explosions they may hear in the
area were not real.

Scotland Yard's Twitter account @metpoliceuk will be giving updates using the
hashtag #999exercise.

Training is centred on the disused Aldwych tube station. Surrey Street, which
runs from the Strand down to the river Thames, will be closed.

DepAst Commissioner Maxine de Brunner, who is the exercise's director, said: "We
have been planning this for many months and as it is a live play exercise some
of our activity will be highly visible and audible to the public.

"Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside our colleagues had
to deal with the tragic events of July 2005. Given the changing nature of the
very real terrorism threat and events around the world, in Paris and Australia,
we need to constantly adapt our plans and prepare for new and emerging threats.

Related: Scotland Yard creates SAS-style unit to counter threat of terrorist gun
attack

"Attacks in Paris and Australia have had an influence on the planning of the
exercises, especially in relation to our own capacity and capability, and that
we are ready to respond to that type of incident."

De Brunner said she believed the capital's police were in a "much better place"
a decade on from the 7/7 bombings.

She said: "It's absolutely vital to reach out to victims and families to send
the message out that testing is a really positive act to make sure we test
ourselves and we are the best we can be and we're ready. So the fact it is near
the anniversary is poignant and important."

The exercise will finish on Wednesday afternoon.

The UK threat level was raised to its second highest level of "severe" in August
2014, meaning a terrorist attack is highly likely, linked to escalating
conflicts in Iraq and Syria.

Police and security services have become increasingly alert to the possibility
of attacks by "lone wolves" incited by extremist propaganda, such as the 2014
Sydney hostage-taker and the gunman at the Canadian parliament.

Similar "leaderless jihadi" attacks have tested international police forces in
2015, including the Paris attacks on magazine Charlie Hebdo and a kosher
supermarket, as well as last week's gun rampage by a Tunisian student at a beach
resort.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 9:36 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: British man has surgery after shielding fiancee from gunman;
Man from south Wales was shot three times during deadly terrorist attack at
resort of Sousse in which at least 38 people died

BYLINE: Rebecca Ratcliffe and agencies

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


A British man has undergone life-saving surgery after he was shot three times
while using his body to shield his fiancee during the terrorist attack in
Tunisia on Friday.

Saera Wilson, 26, from Pontypridd in south Wales, has described how her partner,
Matthew James, 30, threw himself in front of her as the gunman opened fire in
the resort of Sousse.

Related: Tunisia prime minister to shut mosques inciting terrorism as Isis
claims attack

The attack left at least 38 people dead and 36 injured including at least five
British tourists and an Irishwoman. Philip Hammond, the British foreign
secretary, said the British death toll was likely to rise.

James, a gas engineer from Trehafod, near Pontypridd, was hit in the shoulder,
chest and hip as he put his body between Wilson and the gunman, and urged her to
run for her life.

"He took a bullet for me ... I owe him my life because he threw himself in front
of me when the shooting started," she said.

"We were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time when we
heard these sounds. The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun
opening fire all around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on.
I only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.

"Matthew put himself in front of me, then he was hit. He moved and the man shot
him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again.

"He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was
chaos as more shots were coming out. We were down on the floor next to the
sunbeds to shelter but the shots just kept on coming. He just told me to go, to
look after our kids and that he loved me.

"He was covered in blood from the shots, but he just told me to run away. I ran
back, past bodies on the beach to reach our hotel. It was chaos - there was a
body in the hotel pool and it was just full of blood."

After fleeing to the hotel, Wilson hid in a towel cupboard until it was safe to
emerge. She then hunted for James on the beach for two hours until she learned
he had been taken to hospital where he had life-saving surgery.

"I was desperate to find out what had happened to Matthew but no one was around
to help. It was so badly organised with no one to help and hardly anyone
speaking English. I didn't know if he was dead or alive. I was even looking
under white sheets to see if it was his body."

James was being treated at a local hospital on Friday night.

"I've been to the hospital intensive care and I'm just staying here on a chair
now," Wilson said. "His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a
heart attack. But he is alive. I'm just praying we can get out of here as soon
as we can.

"There are bodies everywhere, some covered in blankets and some not. You can't
imagine how bad it is. I know just how lucky we are to be alive because I can
see all the bodies of the people who are not."

The couple, who are planning to marry in 2017, had left their two children at
home with their family when they set off to Sousse on 21 June for a two-week
holiday.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Scotland Yard creates SAS-style unit to counter threat of terrorist gun attack;

130 counter-terrorism specialist firearms officers equipped with new weapons and
retrained in new tactics, including 'fast-roping' from helicopters

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 667 words


Scotland Yard has created an SAS-style unit of armed officers to counter the
threat of a terrorist gun attack in Britain.

The 130 counter-terrorism specialist firearms officers (CTSFOs) who make up the
elite unit have been equipped with new weapons and retrained in new tactics,
such as fast-roping from helicopters and storming burning buildings to rescue
hostages.

The unit has trained alongside the army's special forces to respond to assaults
such as the 2008 attacks in Mumbai and the 2013 Westgate shopping mall attack in
Nairobi, which developed into a siege. It will also be looking to see if any
lessons can be learned from Friday's massacre in Tunisia.

Police and the emergency services will hold their biggest ever counter-terrorism
exercise in central London on Tuesday.

Police chiefs are adamant that their officers rather than soldiers would respond
to a terrorist gun attack on Britain's streets, but accept the military would
probably have to become involved as the crisis played out.

They have been wrestling with how a largely unarmed police service might deal
with such an event, possibly across multiple locations in an urban area.

Regular officers have been told to call in armed colleagues. First on the scene
would be one of the hundreds of armed officers who routinely patrol in armed
response vehicles.

They would take no longer than 15 minutes to arrive, or even less for areas
identified as prime targets, such as Whitehall. The new CTSFO unit would also be
scrambled.

Police chiefs believe terrorist attacks such as the one in Nairobi show that
most casualties happen in the first hour or two.

A senior police source said the new unit would aim to arrest the attackers, but
would be prepared to contain and "neutralise" them. "We're police officers, not
soldiers. We're not at war. Our job is to arrest people," the source said.

Even if faced with a gunman or gunmen on the rampage, the unit would not have
orders to shoot to kill, but would be told to use minimum force. They would not
be "firing the maximum number of bullets" and their actions would be subject to
the criminal law.

They have, nevertheless, been issued with SIG 516 weapons and trained to shoot
to the head if necessary. Armed officers are traditionally trained to shoot
towards the centre of the chest.

They new unit has also been trained to take to speedboats in case of an attack
from water,and to "fast-rope" from helicopters should road traffic be gridlocked
following an attack.

There is no intelligence of an imminent gun attack on Britain, but the two-day
exercise in London this week will test how police, the emergency services and
government would cope with the intense strain of a such an event.

The government's Cobra emergency committee will take part in the exercise, which
was devised in January.

The announcement by the prime minister, David Cameron, of beefed up
counter-terrorism measures and a renewed drive against extremism is otherwise
expected to make little difference to policing practices. Officers have been
engaged in unprecedented levels of activity for nine months already, making
nearly one terrorism-related arrest a day.

The deployment of hundreds of officers, 600 so far, to deal with the attack on
Britons in Tunisia, comes at a time of strain for the police counter-terrorism
network, made up of Scotland Yard's S015 and a series of regional units.

Senior officers have convinced the government to give counter-terrorism policing
more money, but they worry privately that cuts to neighbourhood policing,
including a potential reduction in the number of frontline officers, would
damage the contacts and trust gained among communities and thus the intelligence
gathered.

In May, Britain's top counter-terrorism officer, Mark Rowley, said: "Our
discussions over the next few months in terms of the spending rounds ... around
counter-terrorism, will make the point it's not simply about the
counter-terrorism network enforcement, its about the strength of those other
elements of policing."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: the evil that terrorists - and governments - do

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1110 words


David Cameron said he could only imagine the "pain, and anguish and agony" of
families caught up in the terrible events in Tunisia ( Report, 29 June). He
added that the entirely innocent people attacked had only been trying to enjoy
their holiday. But imagine instead you had been enjoying a wedding, in, say,
Yemen or Afghanistan, and out of the blue a huge explosion devastates all around
you.

The atrocity in Tunisia came on the day the Guardian reported potential British
communications intelligence (GCHQ) involvement in US drone strikes in Yemen and
Pakistan ( UK faces calls for intelligence-sharing guidance over drone attacks,
26 June), which are not recognised war zones, killing many innocent civilians as
collateral damage. A government spokesperson made this disingenuous comment: "We
expect all states concerned to act in accordance with international law and take
all feasible precautions to avoid civilian casualties when conducting any form
of military or counter-terrorist operations."

The Bureau of Investigative Journalism provides the following recent figures for
civilians killed by US drone attacks in Afghanistan and Yemen: Yemen 2002-15:
total killed: 460-681; civilians killed: 65-97; children killed: 8-9; injured:
88-221. Afghanistan: total killed: 124-166; civilians killed: 14-39; children
killed: 0-18; injured: 9.

We ought to apply the same humanitarian standards to all people. Unfortunately,
western governments, ours included, apply double standards. And while they do,
such atrocities as Sousse will happen. Dr David LowryStoneleigh, Surrey

· Jonathan Freedland ends his article on the recent acts of terrorism in
Tunisia, France and Kuwait ( Opinion, 27 June) by saying that we must not be
afraid to name them for what they are: "evil". Well, OK. But what we need to
know is how to diminish the likelihood of these hideous events in future, and
the word evil doesn't help us to think usefully - for that, we need to
understand causes.

"Those to whom evil is done/ Do evil in return", wrote the poet WH Auden. It
follows that to respond to small crimes by committing greater ones, as the west
did in responding to 9/11 by destroying civil society in Iraq, or as Israel did
by responding to small-scale Hamas shelling by killing the inhabitants of Gaza
in vastly greater numbers, is almost infallibly to sow the wind and reap the
whirlwind. The west used torture and chemical weapons in the invasion of Iraq. I
completely sympathise with Freedland in his outrage when ghastly things are done
by Muslim terrorists, but emotion should only be the starting point for serious
thought and memory. Humans are humans: let's not pretend their actions are
incomprehensible. David BlackLondon

· The minute you start describing people or causes as evil, you let governments
and politicians off the hook. However, whether it be Genghis Khan, or the Nazis,
or Isis, the slaughter of the innocents has the desired effect, in this last
case drones, disengagement and retrenchment. Until the west starts to address
the root causes of the problems in the Middle East - among them the actions of
Israel and Saudi Arabia - nothing will change. The west must also cease
portraying all those who fight in Syria as radicalised simpletons, and recognise
that many are principled individuals who feel they must do something if their
governments fail to act. Change will take a long time, but will eventually
convince the Islamic world that the west is even-handed in its approach and will
remove the support for those who perpetrate these acts. Jeremy MarshPurley

· I heartily agree with Giles Fraser ( Loose canon, 27 June) that it's neither
religion nor scriptures that have led the Muslim youth to join Isis. Most of
these youngsters know nothing of the Qu'ran or the history or tenets of Islam -
their outlook is moulded by the west. Even in a country like India, where there
are youngsters who have joined Isis, one needs to look at the political and
social fabric and question why Muslim youths are disgruntled; their issues
should be addressed in order to disembed and displace the Isis ideology.
Professor Sami RafiqAligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India

· Thank God (literally or metaphorically) for Freedland and Fraser. Each, from
his differing perspective, has given us by far the most insightful analysis to
date of the current round of atrocities in the Middle East and elsewhere,
providing a timely reminder that evil, however we perceive it, is an endemic
aspect of the human condition. Secular or religious, we have to address it in
ourselves before we can either understand or condemn it in others. Jeremy
MuldowneyYork

· It is concerning how casually Matthew d'Ancona ( Opinion, 29 June) argues that
"busy use" of Facebook by the Isis gunman in Tunisia justifies increased
surveillance powers. What is the evidence that access to this individual's
communications on Facebook would have prevented the murders? More important is
to ask why Seifeddine Rezgui could apparently avoid scrutiny under existing
security arrangements. Did "they" know enough about him and his behaviour to
deem it necessary to monitor his communications, if that were possible? Or is
d'Ancona calling for all users of social media to be subject to surveillance? Dr
Alex MayManchester

· These terrorists represent themselves only and do not represent Muslims or
Islam, which prohibits such acts. Let's not forget that most of their victims
are Muslims. They are a threat to us all and we should not allow them to divide
us. Foreign policy and interventions which strengthened the extremists and
weakened the moderates should be changed. We should salute the brave Muslims who
turned themselves into human shields to protect western tourists. Mohammed
SamaanaBelfast

· When the IRA bombed London, Americans stayed away, nearly bankrupting London
theatres. The terrorist attack in Tunisia is likely to have a similar effect on
their economy and indeed other North African resorts. Yet the greatest risk for
tourists is the journey to the UK airport. We accept M25 risks and should
similarly refuse to change our behaviour. Enjoy the north African sun and defeat
the terrorists! Jon ChoppinForum, Dorset

· Saturday was Armed Forces Day, a successful public relations exercise
introduced by the Tony Blair government to deflect attention from the Afghan
campaign, where our emasculated forces attempted to fulfil the remit set by
their political masters. How ironic then that our newspaper headlines were
dominated by terrorist atrocities, a consequence of the failed Blair/Bush
foreign policy interventions that were meant to improve our safety. Jon
NealCrawley, West Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 11:25 PM GMT

French prosecutors charge Lyon factory attacker with terrorism and murder;
Yassin Salhi drove into the Air Products factory before beheading his boss and
setting off explosion, say prosecutors

BYLINE: Jessica Ware

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 402 words


A man accused of beheading his boss at a French chemical factory has been handed
preliminary murder and terrorism charges. He is, investigators suspect, tied to
Isis extremists.

Yassin Salhi is facing a long list of charges and was told he would be staying
in custody, Paris prosecutor's office spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre said.

Sahli is thought to have entered a gas factory in Lyon, southeast France, and
beheaded his boss before putting his head on the factory gates. He is also
thought to be responsible for an explosion and injuring two others.

Preliminary charges under French law mean that investigators have a strong
reason to suspect involvement in a crime, and give them more time for deeper
investigation before deciding whether to send the case to trial.

France is back on high terror alert after the attack on the Charlie Hebdo
offices in Paris in January. In pictures: 'Islamist' French factory attack

According to his lawyer, Salhi said he was acting purely for personal reasons
after being reprimanded by his employer. But prosecutor Francois Molins said his
acts went well beyond a simple workplace dispute.

With a long-bladed knife and a gun in hand - as well as two brand new flags
emblazoned with the Muslim declaration of faith, Salhi tricked his boss into
getting into the van, knocked him unconscious and strangled him, Molins said.

About 500 metres before reaching the plant, he decapitated his victim, and then
almost immediately sent two photos of the remains to a friend in Syria: One was
a selfie, and the other included an image of the severed head placed carefully
on the torso.

He reported cried out Allahu akbar, the Arabic phrase for "God is great," when
tackled by firefighters attending the blaze at the Air Products factory.

In a subsequent message, the friend, a Frenchman identified as Sebastien Younes
who has been in Syria since November, indicated he was in contact with Islamic
State higher-ups about the images.

"Yassin Salhi beheaded his victim before hanging his head to the factory fence
in an effort to give maximum publicity to his act - he admitted to it during his
interrogation," Molins said.

"This bears the trademark of the Islamic State group's propaganda which
regularly calls for terrorist attacks to be carried out in France and more
specifically, to slit unbelievers' throats."

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 9:53 PM GMT

Yemen prison break: Al-Qaeda suspects among 1,200 escaped inmates, say
officials;
Reports claim supporters of the terror group were behind the attack on the
central prison in the city of Taiz

BYLINE: Mohammed Ghobari, Ali Abdelaty

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 322 words


A mass jailbreak in Yemen saw around 1,200 prisoners - many of whom al-Qaeda
suspects - escape after guards deserted their posts during heavy fighting,
officials said.

A mass jailbreak in Yemen saw around 1,200 prisoners - many of whom al-Qaeda
suspects - escape after guards deserted their posts during heavy fighting,
officials said.

The incident is the biggest in a series of prison breaks that have freed Yemeni
militants in recent years and signals the further erosion of the state amid a
raging civil war.

"Groups of al Qaeda supporters... today attacked the central prison in the city
of Taiz and more than 1,200 of the dangerous prisoners escaped," state news
agency Saba quoted a security official as saying.

Another local official told Reuters some of the escapees were "suspected of
belonging to al Qaeda" but said they left amid heavy clashes between warring
militias in the city.

Shi'ite Muslim Houthi fighters entered Taiz in March, in a southward push from
their base in the capital Sanaa that drew military intervention from a Saudi
Arabian-led coalition.

But three months of air strikes have yet to push back the group and units in
Yemen's army that are loyal to Houthi ally Ali Abdullah Saleh, the country's
ex-president.

The security official said army forces linked to Saleh allowed the prisoners to
escape as the militiamen, dubbed "popular committees" by their supporters,
advanced.

"Heavy fighting took place near the central prison and the popular committees
approached and seized control of the area, but Saleh's forces opened the prison
doors," the official said.

Another group of al-Qaeda militants escaped from a prison in the eastern city of
Mukalla in April after army forces suddenly quit the city.

Al-Qaeda and other hardline Sunni groups condemn the Houthis as apostates worthy
of death, and the two groups are fighting each other in several areas in central
Yemen.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 7:01 PM GMT

If terror came to London: Video shows what police would do if UK's capital was
hit by a major terrorist attack;
Counter-terrorism operation involves more than 1,000 police officers across
London to prepare for the kind of terrorist attack seen in Tunisia

BYLINE: Matt Dathan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 364 words


Police have been acting out a terror attack on the streets of London to test the
response of the emergency services in the event of a Tunisia or Charlie
Hebdo-style marauding terrorist threat to the capital.

Scotland Yard has been using the Twitter hashtag #999Exercise to provide updates
during the two-day training, which is taking place at various locations across
London.

Onlookers have also taken to Twitter to post photos and videos of events, giving
the public an idea of the kind of scenes the capital would face if Britain
suffered the same kind of attack that unfolded on the Sousse beach resort in
Tunisia last week.

#999exercise The one day where something interesting is happening along Surrey
Street and I forgot my camera pic.twitter.com/zIZTVQr5Mg- Zoë Austin
(@zoeaustin) June 30, 2015

David Cameron said the exercise had been planned following the terrorist attack
at the offices of the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January, when Paris was gripped
by three days of horror as gunmen went on the loose.

In pictures: Mock terror attack in London

Last week's massacre by an Islamic extremist on a beach resort in Tunisia, which
left about 30 British holidaymakers dead, has reiterated the threat that these
random, marauding types of terror attacks pose to the UK.

#999exercise interesting day at work today pic.twitter.com/Se6hlITXh- Zoë Austin
(@zoeaustin) June 30, 2015

The exercise is involving more than 1,000 police officers, including 130
counter-terrorism specialist firearms officers, who make up the elite unit of
the operation.

الشرطة الالانجليزية تنتفض #999exercisepic.twitter.com/bPG6kV6bjA- Abdulaziz
Alothman (@boslaiman) June 30, 2015

Exercise Strong Tower, as it is being referred to by Scotland Yard, is testing
ambulances, the Ministry of Defence, hospitals and the capital's transport
infrastructure too.

Specialist Ambulance Teams taking part in today's #999Exercise delivering pt
care in the most difficult environment pic.twitter.com/pnb9jrBMbJ- Pete Brown
(@Ambo_Pete) June 30, 2015#Londonambulance treat a 'victim' and a bullet lies on
ground near journos
#999Exercise@BBCLondon949@metpoliceukpic.twitter.com/8rD4pOngKl- Anna O'Neill
(@Annareporting) June 30, 2015

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:36 AM GMT

Anti-terror training exercise Q&A: Where's it happening, will I be affected and
why now?;
Counter-terrorism operation involves more than 1,000 police officers across
London to prepare for the kind of 'marauding terrorist attack' seen in Tunisia

BYLINE: Matt Dathan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 795 words


Scotland Yard is conducting Britain's biggest counter-terrorism exercise as
officers take to the streets of London to prepare for a "marauding terrorist
attack".

Why?

David Cameron said the exercise had been planned following the terrorist attack
at the offices of the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January, when Paris was gripped
by three days of horror as gunmen went on the loose.

The training exercise has been planned for months but last week's massacre by an
Islamic extremist on a beach resort in Tunisia, which left about 30 British
holidaymakers dead, has reiterated the threat that these random, "marauding"
types of terror attacks pose to the UK.

When is it taking place?

It will take place over two days - Tuesday 30 June and Wednesday 1 July.

What kind of attack will the exercise simulate?

The most recent examples of the type of attack that will be simulated are the
Charlie Hebdo and Sousse atrocities, but the kind of shopping mall attack seen
in the 2008 massacre in Mumbai is one that the authorities will be training for
too.

Where?

The exercise will be conducted at various locations in London - the authorities
have refused to give any more details. Only a handful of specialist officers in
Scotland Yard will know the precise details of what the simulated attack
involves.

Who is involved?

More than 1,000 officers - many of whom will be armed - will take part. They
will be testing how Scotland Yard, the intelligence and emergency services
respond if a "marauding" attack unfolded on the streets of London.

The Ministry of Defence, the capital's hospitals and transport network will also
be tested in the exercise.

There will be 130 counter-terrorism specialist firearms officers, who make up
the elite unit of the operation. They will be armed with new weapons and new
tactics, such as fast-roping from helicopters and storming buildings to rescue
hostages.

The government's Cobra emergency committee will also take part in the exercise.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Will I be affected?

Downing Street said Londoners and tourists will not be affected or disturbed by
the exercise but said the public would be aware of the training exercise as it
unfolds across several locations in the capital.

The government wants to ensure as many people were aware of the exercise going
ahead as possible and the Met has told the public not to be concerned by what
they may see. "Elements of it will be noisy and it will be visible in places and
really important we get a message out of reassurance," said Maxine de Brunner,
the deputy assistant police commissioner.

"Officers will have to respond on how they find it on the day. They don't know
what will be happening and we will be testing things which we haven't tested
before."

Normal policing levels across London will be unaffected by the exercise, the Met
said.

How is the operation being referred to?

The Metropolitan police is calling it Exercise Strong Tower.

What are the Met Police saying about the exercise?

Deputy Assistant Police Commissioner Maxine de Brunner said: "This exercise is
focused in the extreme end of what might happen.

"I would just like to stress to you all, it is not being carried out in response
to any specific intelligence.

"We have been planning this since January so it is completely not related to
anything that may be going on at this time.

"We have been planning this for many months and as it is a live play exercise
some of our activity will be highly visible and audible to the public.

"We want to test ourselves. This isn't about how to look good or do well. I
expect there will be a lot for us to learn from this. We will test our firearms
capability across a range of our units.

"Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside out colleagues have
to deal with the tragic events of July 2005.

"From our point of view of the Met police we haven't put together an exercise of
this magnitude before. It is the largest exercise in London that we have
planned.

"We want to see and ensure that our capacity and skills can match whatever we
think a terrorist group may do."

"Exercising is a vital part of our preparedness to respond to any major incident
in London. It helps us to ensure that we and all our partners are ready as we
can before whatever might happen.

"We put a huge amount of effort into our planning and the exercise it to test
out assumptions and how a large number of agencies all work together."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Is Tunisia really no more dangerous for tourists than France or Spain?;
Tunisia terror attack Government warning system needs to be overhauled, writes
SIMON CALDER

BYLINE: SIMON CALDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 559 words


For several hundred thousand British people who have booked holidays in Tunisia
this year, the wording of the Foreign Office travel advice in response to
Friday's massacre on the beach was critical.

Had the Government warned against travel to the country, they would have been
able to claim refunds without penalty. As it is, most of them face heavy
cancellation fees if they decide not to go.

The revised travel advice was placed on the FCO website shortly before 11pm on
Saturday night, and it took me nearly an hour to decode it.

The statements it contains make Tunisia sound a dangerous place - warning that
"Further terrorist attacks... are possible."

It identifies the likely perpetrators as "individuals who are unknown to the
authorities, and whose actions are inspired by terrorist groups via social
media". And it points out that Tunisia shares a long, leaky border with Libya -
a failed state with many weapons, seen by some as a crucible for Jihadists. But
even after two cold-blooded massacres of tourists to Tunisia in three months,
the latest Foreign Office advice stops short of putting the North African nation
on the government's holiday blacklist.

Certainly, it urges people to stay clear of the dangerous fringes. But the
entire area where visitors are likely to spend their time, from Djerba along the
coast to Tunis and Carthage, and inland to the mosque of Kairouan, is marked on
the map in reassuring green - appearing to signal "go".

Around half the British tourists on holiday in Tunisia have returned to the UK
since Friday's terror attack, according to the Association of British Travel
Agents. The organisation estimates that 10,000 of an approximate 20,000 British
tourists have flown back, with roughly half taking specially commissioned
flights.

The Tunisian authorities may latch on to the Foreign Office advice as validation
of claims that the nation is safe.

They may also point out that atrocities can happen anywhere, as Londoners are
all too aware as the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings approaches. And they
may note that France and Spain are rated with Tunisia as presenting a "high
threat of terrorism".

Yet even as someone who will happily return to Tunisia, I cannot accept that
Benidorm shares the same risk profile as a poor country that shares a border
with Libya.

At present it appears there are four grades of danger in the Foreign Office
system. In ascending order, they are: "a general threat of terrorism," "a high
threat of terrorism," "we advise against all-but-essential travel," and "we
advise against all travel". Let's call them 1, 2, 3 and 4.

The last two will trigger an evacuation, which is perhaps why the Foreign
Office's intricately worded current advice seems intended to give Tunisia a 2.9
- stopping just short of sending in rescue planes in.

Why not formalise a finer calibration? Our two most-popular countries, Spain and
France, do not have a history of tourist-related terrorism; Egypt and Turkey do.
So if the western European pair score 2, the eastern Mediterranean couple might
be graded 2.5. And if the Foreign Office won't compile an index of attacks on
tourists, then I might.

But even as the victims of Friday's appalling slaughter are brought home to
rest, it is important to remember that the vast majority of visits to Tunisia
bring rewards to the traveller, and the local community.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Flailing investigators ask, did the killer get his training in Libya?;
Tunisia terror attack KIM SENGUPTA reports from the home of Seifeddine Rezgui as
official try to solve the mystery of his radicalisation

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 858 words


Authorities in Tunisia suffered from a catastrophic failure of intelligence over
the massacre of tourists at the beach resort in Sousse. Police admitted in the
hours after the bloodbath that they had no idea that Seifeddine Rezgui was a
terrorist threat, The Independent has learned.

The deaths of 38 holidaymakers and the ensuing damaging impact for the country's
tourist industry has led to a massive crackdown by the Tunisian government
followed by a series of arrests. Interior Ministry spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui
stated that three of those detained yesterday were young men who had shared a
house with the 23-year-old killer in the city of Kairouan.

The suspects are being questioned over possible links to the supply of weapons,
documentation and planning of the attacks. Officials say that the investigation
is also looking at whether Rezgui received combat training during a visit to
Libya three months ago.

It has emerged, meanwhile, that the authorities were desperately short of
information following the murders. Police found Rezgui's student registration
card in his blood-soaked clothing after shooting him dead and rushed to his
college, asking staff to help them build up a picture of him.

Tunisian Interior Minister Mohamed Gharsali said that those arrested in the past
24 hours were "from the network that was behind this terrorist criminal". But
according to staff at l'Institut Superior des Sciences Appliquees et de
Technologie (Issat) in Kairouan, where Rezgui studied, Ministry of Interior
officials and police officers had said earlier that they had no knowledge that
he was a member of a jihadist network.

Karem Belgharag, secretary general and head of administration at Issat, said he
received a telephone call from the Ministry of Interior an hour and half after
the murders on Friday afternoon saying Rezgui's student card connected him to
the college. "I was still in a state of shock when the police arrived 10 minutes
later. There were six or seven of them, they too seemed to be in shock. They
said he had never been a suspect for anything and they were desperate for
anything we could give them," said Mr Belgharag. "We gave them all the files we
had on him they were very grateful. They took away his laptop. Since then we
have had four more visits from different law agencies; they have spoken to
teachers and students, they are devoting a lot of resources to it now."

The police were given a mobile phone number used by Rezgui they had not known
about before. Days after his death, the number still rang, going to a voicemail
message. Schaier Saleem, the director of Issat, said: "We could not give the
police any information about extremist links Rezgui had because we simply did
not know of them. We have almost 1,000 students here but we have never had any
political problems with anyone, including Rezgui. There were no disciplinary
problems with him, either. He was seen as a pleasant, friendly person, that's
what his teachers said."

The description is at wide variance with neighbours of Rezgui in the city's Sidi
Belkhacem district, who have stated that he and six other religiously devout
young men sharing a rented house, next to the Mosque of the Seven Virgins, led
secretive lives and avoided talking to local people. The group, they say,
suddenly disappeared a month before the murders.

Sitting at his desk in Issat, Mr Belgharag shook his head. "All of us here feel
the same way: we could never have foreseen what would happen - he did not take
part in student politics and he was not particularly religious," he said. "Some
religious students, for example, object to exams taking place during Ramadan but
he had no problem with that. He obviously had many faces: at the other end from
what happened in Sousse was that he was into things like breakdancing - we
couldn't imagine that, either."

Rezgui was not studying aviation engineering, as some reports have suggested,
but network management. He passed his first set of examinations for a master's
degree on 22 May, picking up his certificate six days later. He travelled from
Kairouan to Sousse a few days later, reportedly seeking a job in the tourist
industry, but did not find one.

Asked about Rezgui's possible visit to Libya, Mr Belgharag said it could have
been undertaken during a two-week spring break from college in May. But he
stressed that he had no knowledge of such a visit. "I have been told that his
passport did not have immigration stamps for Libya, although it is, of course,
possible that someone could be smuggled over the border," he said.

The Tunisian government and the Libyan administration based in Tripoli - vying
for control of the country with a rival regime in Tobruk - have repeatedly
accused each other of exporting terrorism. The Libyans claim that the Tunisians,
who comprise the largest contingent of foreign jihadists in Syria, are providing
the leadership for Isis forces which have taken control of Muammar Gaddafi's
former home city of Sirte and towns in the east of the country. The Tunisians
claim that gunmen who killed 20 foreigners in an attack on the Bardo Museum in
Tunis three months ago were trained in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Sympathy for victims, before the shaming;
Tunisia terror attack Sketch

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words


Apart from the solemn one minute's silence before David Cameron's statement,
what struck home in the Commons yesterday was the number of MPs from all parts
of the country and across the party divide naming their constituents who died or
were injured on the beach at Sousse on Friday.

Labour's Adrian Bailey was first, speaking of what Cameron called the
"heartbreaking" multi-generational loss of the 44-year-old Sandwell council
employee Adrian Evans, killed along with his father and nephew. But there were
many more, some also mentioning the bravery of Tunisians who had come to the aid
of victims.

Cameron's statement was judicious and prime ministerial. Despite the emphasis on
the "brutal terrorist attack" on "innocent British holidaymakers" who had "saved
up for a special time with their family", he also highlighted the murder of 27
worshippers in a Kuwait mosque claimed by a Saudi-based Isis affiliate, and the
earlier, rather overlooked, execution of 120 Syrian Kurds in Kobane.

Despite the all-party consensus, however, there were sharper moments. Labour's
Shabana Mahmood recalled the PM's accusation last week that some sections of
British Muslims had "quietly condoned" Islamic extremism, instead of confronting
it. "Will you agree," she asked, "that most ordinary British Muslims??? have no
more knowledge and ability to step up to the plate and call out in this way than
any other ordinary British person?"

While praising Muslim leaders who had condemned Isis "utterly", Cameron remained
adamant that "there are some people and some organisations... who go along with
some of the narrative... Those people we must call out too." As shadow Chief
Secretary Ms Mahmood is a rising star, maybe the two should meet to discuss this
further.

Former Tory Defence Secretary Liam Fox was the only MP to charge that "too few"
Arab countries in the region were "pulling their weight" and to suggest "naming
and shaming" states who facilitated the spread of fundamentalist Islam. He
didn't name them himself, but you couldn't help wondering if he had in mind a
Western ally or two.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

To prevent attacks we must accept that containment has not worked;
Tunisia terror attack Comment

BYLINE: PATRICK COCKBURN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 477 words


Effective action to prevent further attacks by Isis-inspired gunmen requires a
recognition of the failure of the policy of containment of Isis pursued over the
last year by the US, Britain and their allies. Isis is getting stronger not
weaker. In the aftermath of an atrocity like Sousse, it would be naïve to expect
David Cameron to admit to this failure and to recommend new and more effective
policies. Unsurprisingly, he expressed defiance towards Isis, commiseration with
its victims and pledged a "full spectrum response" to the massacre. There was
waffle about Isis "attacking our way of life and what we stand for, so we have
to stand united with those that share our values".

But nowhere in Mr Cameron's interview with the BBC or speech in the House of
Commons was there much sign of understanding what he is up against. What has
really changed since 9/11 and 7/7 is that today terrorist attacks are promoted
by a powerful state based in northern Iraq and eastern Syria that has an army
more powerful than most members of the UN.

It was all very well for Mr Cameron to insist that the UK had carried out 300
air strikes and this is more than any other country aside from the US which has
carried out 6,000. What he did not address was the fact that despite these
airstrikes Isis last month defeated the Iraqi army at Ramadi and the Syrian army
at Palmyra. Making an issue of the fact that the BBC refers to "Islamic State"
suggests that Mr Cameron has not really grasped the seriousness of developments
in Iraq and Syria over the last year.

Mr Cameron has played a part in opening the door to Isis by joining the campaign
to overthrow Muammar Gaddafi in Libya, which has led to that country collapsing
into anarchy which provides fertile soil for Isis to take root and grow. This in
turn is contributory cause to Isis expanding in Libya.

There is no sign that Mr Cameron or any of the Western powers have learned any
lessons from what happened in Libya. When Saudi Arabia started bombing Yemen
earlier this year its actions were backed by the US, Britain and other powers,
though a predictable result of this air campaign has been to weaken the Yemeni
army, the one institution holding the country together, and lead to Isis
becoming an influence there for the first time.

Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) that used to be penned into remote
villages has become a power across south Yemen.

Talk by Cameron of combatting "the narrative of the terrorists" shows a lack of
seriousness on the part of the government. What it really needs to do is find
effective local partners in the Middle East which means better relations with
Iran and the coalition it leads, which is fighting Isis, at the risk of
offending the Sunni states like Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the Gulf monarchies
whose sympathies are with the Sunni communities in which Isis has taken root.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Paralysed' police let gunman run amok for half an hour, says witness;
Tunisia terror attack Theresa May pledges 'united' front against terrorists as
rumours swirl about the Sousse massacre

BYLINE: YASMINE RYAN AND JENNY TSIROPOULOIU IN SOUSSE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words


Armed policemen were "paralysed by fear" and allowed the Tunisian gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui to freely massacre British tourists for more than half an hour
before shooting him dead, witnesses claim.

Even though two police officers arrived at the scene within minutes, it was said
to have been around half-an-hour before Rezgui was killed. In that time, 38
people, including at least 30 Britons, were fatally wounded. The armed policemen
who arrived at the beach were "paralysed by fear", a Belgian tourist told The
Independent, speaking anonymously. "Some youths told the police, 'We're not
afraid of dying, give it [the gun] to us.'"

The youths took the gun and ran up to the pool area, shooting in the air to get
his attention, but then the gun jammed. The gunman threw a grenade at them and
chased after them.

"Many people on the beach were supporting the youths as they went into the
hotel. People were shouting 'This is the real Tunisia!'" said the Belgian
tourist.

The Home Secretary, Theresa May, visited Sousse yesterday. She said: "We are
clear that the terrorists will not win. We are united in working together to
defeat them. But united also in working to defend our values. What happened here
last Friday was a despicable act of cruelty."

Footage has emerged which shows Tunisians forming a human shield to protect the
tourists. Some of those who lived through the attack on the Imperial Hotel said
police were nowhere to be seen until after the gunman had left.

A spokesman for Tunisia's Interior Ministry, Mohamed Ali Aroui, said over the
weekend that the police arrived "within seven minutes" of the beginning of the
attack.

A woman who was hiding next to the hotel's spa pool said she saw a man wearing
black, possibly a security officer, standing concealed in a stairwell throughout
the attack. There were unconfirmed claims yesterday that a second gunman may
have taken part. Meanwhile, one of the survivors, retired police officer Steve
Johnson, told BBC Radio 4 that he saw a man wearing red shorts wielding a gun in
the pool area.

"There was gunfire going during that time and by the time we had got up to the
third floor and were looking down, we saw a number of bodies on the terrace and
the steps and saw another guy - because my colleague had seen the man in the
black shorts and shirt on the beach shooting people and now we have got a guy in
red shorts with a gun walking down through the terrace and down by the pool and
it looked like local people running away from him." Whether it was a second
gunman, or one of the youths who had taken the police officer's gun to tackle
the gunman, remained unclear last night.

There is another question about two unexplained bodies on the first floor of the
hotel, witnessed by Maggie Cairns from Bristol who was one of several people
hiding in a room. They heard a voice after the attack, and left the room to find
the two bodies outside the door.

Another criticism of the police is that they should have been on high alert
during Ramadan and the attack on the Bardo Museum in Tunis where 22 people,
mainly foreigners, were killed in March. "There would have been less victims if
the police had been present more quickly," said Sarah Ben Hamadi, a political
analyst. "They knew that there was a heightened menace in the tourist zone
during Ramadan."

Tunisian ministers in a press conference at the Imperial Hotel confirmed that
there were arrests yesterday. They said they were still investigating the
possibility that the gunman had trained in Libya. The sophistication of the
attack suggests he had high-level training. An official source told The
Independent that the gunman used homemade grenades.

The attack has underlined the challenges ahead for this North African country,
which has already overcome considerable obstacles to become the only genuine
democracy in the Arab world, building a model based on consensus.

Ms May said that she had had a "very constructive" meeting with the Tunisian
authorities, and was flanked by the interior ministers of France, Germany and
Tunisia during her visit to Sousse.

'TRULY SOULMATES'

BRITISH VICTIMS

Philip Heathcote, 52, who had flown to Tunisia to celebrate his 30th wedding
anniversary, was confirmed to be the 19th British victim of a number that
authorities fear could rise beyond 30.

His wife, Allison Heathcote, 48, is in an induced coma after also being shot
while on the beach at Sousse. Her brother Simon Boon said: "Philip was truly
Allison's soulmate and they did everything together, sharing the same interests
life offered."

Separately, former Birmingham City football star Denis Thwaites, 70, and his
wife Elaine, 69, were also killed, it was confirmed yesterday, while two British
tourists remaining in hospital care in Sousse were returned to London on an RAF
C-17.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron raises possibility of air strikes on Syria as he calls for Isis to be
'crushed';
Tunisia terror attack PM's words are seen as an attempt to flush out Labour
position after atrocity

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 653 words


David Cameron said that Isis must be "crushed" in Syria as well as Iraq as he
reopened the question of whether the UK should launch air strikes against the
terrorist group in Syria following the killings of tourists in Tunisia.

British officials insist there are no immediate plans to extend the action taken
against Isis in Iraq since last autumn. But Downing Street did not rule out the
Syria issue returning to the agenda, saying that Parliament would be told first
if any action were proposed.

Mr Cameron's hint was seen at Westminster as an attempt to flush out Labour's
position. In the last parliament, Labour twice blocked UK military action in
Syria. Now, following the Tory general election victory, the domestic political
landscape has changed.

Lord West of Spithead, a former head of the Royal Navy and Security Minister in
the previous Labour government, called for the UK to extend its military
operations to Syria.

"When we started our air campaign in Iraq, we said we would not do attacks into
Syria unless something specific happened - an atrocity or something," he said.
"Those of us in the military pointed out it made no military sense not to do
attacks into Syria."

Last night, Mr Cameron spoke to Barack Obama by telephone after the US president
asked for an opportunity to talk about the atrocity in Tunisia. A Downing Street
spokesman said: "President Obama called the Prime Minister this evening to
express his condolences over the loss of British life in Tunisia and said that
the US stood firmly by the UK during this difficult time. The leaders discussed
the importance of working together with countries like Tunisia to tackle the
threat posed by Islamist extremism." Mr Cameron later wrote on social media that
the US "stand side-by-side in working to defeat terrorism".

Yesterday Theresa May, the Home Secretary, laid flowers on the beach in Sousse
where about 30 British holidaymakers are thought to have lost their lives in
Friday's attack, which she called "a despicable act of cruelty". The number of
Britons confirmed dead in the Tunisia attack stood at 18 last night.

Ms May was joined by her Tunisian counterpart in a show of solidarity, and they
also held talks with interior ministers from France, Germany and Belgium.

Mr Cameron made a Commons statement after MPs held a minute's silence for the
victims of the attack. The nation will hold a minute's silence at noon on
Friday, a week after the killings.

The Prime Minister told MPs that the terrorist problem must be tackled "at
source", saying there were "in part" some military answers. He added: "We do
need to crush Isis in Iraq and Syria."

Insisting that the attack would not change the way Britons lead their lives, Mr
Cameron continued: "We must take on the radical narrative that is poisoning
young minds. The people who do these things do it in the name of a twisted and
perverted ideology which hijacks the Islamic faith and holds that mass murder
and terror are not only acceptable but necessary.

"We must confront this evil with everything we have. We must be stronger at
standing up for our values and we must be more intolerant of intolerance, taking
on anyone whose views condone the extremist narrative or create the conditions
for it to flourish."

Ministers will highlight a new legal obligation on public authorities, including
schools, to prevent the radicalisation of young Muslims. It takes effect
tomorrow. The prime minister reiterated plans to revive the so-called "snooper's
charter" so that the security services could track online communications.

Mr Cameron announced a major exercise will be carried out in London today and
tomorrow to "test and refine" readiness for a terrorist attack. It was planned
before Friday's events, after the attack at the offices of the Charlie Hebdo
magazine in Paris in January.

Yvette Cooper, the shadow Home Secretary, said: "We need global action to stop
Isis grooming terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK: Blackburn family locked themselves in hotel bathroom
after ISIS gunman fired into their room

BYLINE: Jon Robinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


A MUM-OF-TWO has described how she and her family barricaded themselves in a
hotel bathroom as bullets smashed through windows during the horrific Tunisian
terrorist attack.

Katie Spencer, 24, huddled with her children and fiancé while ISIS shooter
Seifeddine Rezgui massacred tourists with explosives and a Kalashnikov rifle.

MORE TOP STORIES:

She was so petrified the family remained holed up in the hotel suite room for 10
hours before being given the all clear by security services.

A total of 38 people were killed on the beach near Sousse with the total of
British fatalities expected to rise to more than 30.

Rezgui was shot dead at the scene but some witnesses have described seeing a
second gunman firing during the massacre.

The Blackburn College student said she took refuge in the Soviva Resort Hotel
with her partner Mark Turner, 27, his brother Mick, 31, and her two sons Noah,
four, and Oliver, one, as shots were fired.

They were joined by close family friends from Blackburn Nathan Chapman, 21, his
mum, Paula Newton, 44, stepdad Mathew Newton, 34, and sister Hannah Newton, 10.

In the same attack Darwen mum Carol Wearing, 46, was hit by either bullets or
chunks of metal and is still recovering in Royal Blackburn Hospital after being
flown back home.

Her daughter Naomi, 18, was peppered with shrapnel in her back and legs after
being blasted by a grenade and is also in the hospital.

Katie, of St George's Avenue, Blackburn, said: "I wasn't too far away from the
hotel when I heard the first shot and I just ran back to the pool where my
children and partner were.

"I have never screamed so loud before in my life.

"We raced into the hotel reception and that's when Owen Richards, the boy who
lost three members of his family, burst in covered in blood and he looked in
complete shock."

The family, along with their friends who had been on the way to the beach, fled
to a hotel bedroom before crawling into a marble bathroom while bullets smashed
through the windows.

She and the children remained in the hotel suite for 10 hours before the area
was given the all-clear.

Katie said: "I have never felt so fearful for my life before.

"It has affected us all. I just can't believe what happened and I feel so sad
for everybody whose family members were killed or hurt."

Nathan, a former St Bede's Catholic High School student who lives in Taylor
Close, Blackburn, said: "We ran up the stairs and went into the room and shut
the door.

Then we barricaded it with chairs and a table when we heard the noises from
outside.

"We then went into the bathroom and blocked the door and we had to put our hands
over the babies' mouths to stop them crying.

"We stayed in there for around 15 to 20 minutes then went back into the room and
found an English TV channel to see what had happened.

"We then heard the military helicopter and trucks arriving and I went to
reception to see what was going on. We stayed in the bedroom because it wasn't
safe to leave. It was much later we got the all-clear.

"It was just unbelievable because it could so easily have been us on the beach.
If we had been two minutes earlier we would have been there and in the middle of
it.

"When we heard the shots we just turned around and ran back inside the hotel.
Everybody was panicking and running around.

"We went up to the room and people were falling down the stairs because they
were trying to get up out of the way too quickly."

Katie, whose holiday had been changed to Tunisia from Spain at the last minute
by Jet2 Holidays, said: "We were not even supposed to be in the country.

"It was only a late change of plan and we should have been safe in Spain.

"My four-year-old is suffering from the trauma and I hope that my one-year-old
did not take anything in from the experience."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:51 PM GMT

Scotland Yard creates an elite SAS-style unit of armed police trained to respond
to a Mumbai-style terror attack in Britain

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words



     ·    Police want to be able to respond to terror attacks on their own
     ·    They have reportedly trained officers to drop out of helicopters
     ·    New squad is designed to deal with a 'marauding gunman' like in
          Tunisia
     ·    Unit's existence emerges on day of huge exercise in dealing with
          terror


The Met Police has assembled a new squad of armed officers to deal with a
Mumbai-style terror attack on London.

The unit of 130 officers are believed to have been training with special forces
in how to break up a terrorist siege or tackle an attack by a 'marauding gunman'
like that in Tunisia last week.

It is understood the police are keen to be able to respond quickly to any such
threat without having to immediately call in the army or SAS.

The difference between the new unit and military special forces would be that
the police team's primary focus would be on arresting, rather than taking down,
terrorists, The Guardian reported today.

The paper claimed the new squad has been armed with semi-automatic rifles and
can abseil from helicopters to avoid being caught up in the capital's heavy
traffic.

Islamic-extremist terrorists killed 173 people over three days in Mumbai in
coordinated shootings and bombings in November 2008.

Gunmen armed with AK-47 assault rifles and backpacks filled with ammunition and
grenades arrived by dinghy and fanned out to the city's railway station, a
popular cafe and the Oberoi Trident hotel and Taj Mahal Hotel.

More than 60 people were then killed when al-Shabaab militants stormed the
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in 2013.

A mock terrorist firearms attack is being staged in London over the next two
days to test the emergency services' ability to respond to a mass shooting.

The counter-terrorism 'major live play exercise' has been in the planning since
January and will involve a number of locations, the Metropolitan Police said.

The Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the hostage-taking siege in Sydney had an
'influence' on the test, according to deputy assistant commissioner and director
of the exercise Maxine de Brunner.

She said it was the Met's view that it had never before put together an exercise
of this magnitude and said it would be 'very realistic'.

She also said the Mumbai attacks of 2008 'and other attacks around the world'
were thought through in the planning of the exercise.

But the Met said the test was in no way connected or prompted by the massacre in
Tunisia last week and the essential theme of it was agreed before January.

The Met declined to comment on the new unit of armed police officers.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 7:32 AM GMT

MARKET REPORT: Tour operators and airlines see some of biggest tumbles as stocks
markets take a pounding due to Greek crisis and terror attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: JONATHON HOPKINS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 808 words


With holidaymakers in Greece hit by the closure of the country's banks as its
debt crisis escalated, and tourists being evacuated from Tunisia following last
week's terror attack, tour operators and airlines saw some of the biggest
tumbles as stocks markets took a pounding.

Blue-chip Thomson and First Choice holiday group TUI was the worst off, dropping
7 per cent or 79p to 1034p as analysts estimated that it had around 6,400
customers across Tunisia when a lone gunman massacred 38 people, mostly from
Britain, on a beach at the resort of Sousse on Friday.

Panmure Gordon analyst Gert Zonneveld pointed out that TUI has around 3 per cent
of its business in Tunisia and 10 per cent in Greece.

Mid-cap tour operator Thomas Cook fell 5.4p to 138.8p, while among the airlines,
British Airways owner International Airlines Group shed 21.3p at 493.2p, and
discount carrier EasyJet was 33p lower at 1544p.

Zonneveld noted that only 3 per cent of EasyJet's business relates to Greece,
with a minimal amount in Tunisia.

Aside from the personal horrors of the Tunisia terror attacks, however, it was
the Greek crisis that had the greatest hold on financial markets as the
country's prime minister Alexis Tsipras called a snap referendum for the weekend
after rejecting the latest debt bailout deal it had been offered.

Greek banks were declared shut for the week, as was the Athens stock market,
with the country expected to default on a (EURO)1.6bn payment to the
International Monetary Fund, which will also see its current bailout deal
expire. Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said: 'While
Greece is sure to miss Tuesday's IMF debt payment, thus falling into arrears and
joining an exclusive club, this may be the least of our worries as a rejection
vote next Sunday could seal the country's exit from an altogether more important
one - the eurozone single currency - and contagion risk is very real.'

Those contagion worries saw European markets take a big tumble, while the FTSE
100 index closed 133.22 points lower at 6620.48, and the FTSE 250 index plunged
287.66 points at 17,534.67. US stocks also dropped sharply.

Banking shares were under pressure on the Greek crisis concerns, although their
exposure to the country has been much reduced over the past few years - with
Barclays losing 8.1p at 264.25p and HSBC down 12.8p at 577.1p. Among other
blue-chip stocks with direct exposure to the Greek situation, electricals
retailer Dixons Carphone, which owns the Kotsovolos chain in the country, fell
9.1p to 456.6p and Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling shed 48p 1381p.

Heavyweight miners were also weak as, aside from Greece, concerns about China
took a toll. Chinese stock markets dropped another 3 per cent as investors
dumped shares despite news of a fresh easing in monetary policy by Beijing.

Chinese shares have plunged about 25 per cent over the past two weeks on worries
about the economic health of the world's biggest consumer of commodities.

But among the handful of blue-chip gainers, precious metal miners managed to
stand out as the gold price rose, with investor seeking safe havens.

Randgold Resources took on 26p at 4400p and Fresnillo added 2.5p to 700.5p.

Testing equipment firm Intertek was a FTSE 100 gainer as well, up 50p at 2472p,
as traders noted a return of some bid interest for the stock. Back in April,
Intertek shares soared on revived talk that Swiss firm SGS or Bureau Veritas of
France could be interested in making an offer.

On the up with the mid caps, online grocer Ocado rose 4.3p to 430p, after media
reports claimed that the firm is close to securing a deal with an international
retailer which would allow it to expand outside the UK for the first time. Ocado
reports its first-half results tomorrow.

Among the small cap shares, motor accident management specialists Redde gained 6
per cent, or 8.5p at 137.25p after it unveiled plans to pay a special dividend
of 1p a share, in addition to a final payout of no less than 4p, as it revealed
that its full-year results look set to beat market expectations with robust
trading conditions continuing in the fourth quarter.

But on the downside, AIM-listed natural resources investor Nova Resources
plummeted 42 per cent, or 0.12p, to 0.16p after it reported a jump in its
pre-tax losses to £2.9m for 2014, up from a £477,699 loss in the previous year,
mainly due to a writedown in the value of its holding in Tricor.

Africa-focused natural resources investor Armadale Capital leapt 27 per cent to
6.5p after moves by South African-listed group Mine Restoration Investment which
could help the firm realise the value in its 35 per cent holding in MRI. MRI is
looking to buy up to a 39.2 per cent interest in iron ore technology firm IMBS
and plans to raise £10.4m via a private share placement, which Armadale believes
should help underpin the value in its holding.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 1:30 AM GMT

Damage to Muslim graves in a Nottingham cemetery in the wake of the Tunisia
terror attack is being treated as a hate crime

BYLINE: SAM TONKIN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words



     ·    Around ten Muslim graves have been damaged at a Nottingham cemetery
     ·    Nottingham City Council said it was treating the vandalism as a hate
          crime
     ·    Council leader Graham Chapman called it an 'irresponsible act of
          hatred'
     ·    It comes in the wake of the Tunisia terror attack which left 38 people
          dead


The desecration of Muslim graves at a Nottingham cemetery is being treated as a
hate crime in the wake of the Tunisia terror attack.

Nottinghamshire Police have stepped up patrols at High Wood Cemetery in Bulwell
and other sites after name plaques and decorative lights on Muslim plots were
damaged overnight at the weekend.

Nottingham City Council said it was treating the damage to at least ten plots as
a hate crime.

The council's deputy leader, Graham Chapman, said: 'We totally condemn what has
taken place at High Wood Cemetery.

'This irresponsible act of hatred achieves absolutely nothing.

'We will be increasing security at the cemetery and, although we cannot
guarantee solving this hate crime, the council will be working with the police
to do our utmost to track down the perpetrators.'

Wasim Chaudry, whose mother-in-law's grave was desecrated just three weeks after
her death, said he felt 'absolute disbelief' at the damage.

The 41-year-old digital communications officer, from Basford, Nottingham, said:
'They broke off the name plate but we got off lightly compared to some of the
other graves.

'Some of the others had been trampled on. I just don't know what goes through
people's minds. It's unbelievable.'

Some of the graves damaged in the cemetery were non-Muslim but the main focus of
vandalism was in the Muslim section, police said.

Chief Superintendent Mark Holland said the incident was upsetting for the
families affected.

He said: 'Nottinghamshire Police has been liaising closely with the Muslim
community in Nottinghamshire since the events in Tunisia and we have been in
close contact following the reports of these events.

'I am sure everyone in Nottinghamshire will be united in their condemnation of
these actions and we would urge anyone who knows anything about this incident to
contact police immediately.'

Anyone with information which could identify those responsible for the damage
has been asked to call Nottinghamshire Police on 101.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Tunisia terror attack: It was a barbaric act by an individual with a poisoned
ideology'

BYLINE: Amanda Devlin

LENGTH: 198  words


City MP Iain Stewart has pledged to support anyone in Milton Keynes affected by
the "barbaric" terror attack in Tunisia - and is calling on them to get in
touch.

Friday's massacre saw 38 tourists murdered as they holidayed in Sousse by
23-year-old gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

Today, horrified Mr Stewart said terrorism "must come to an end".

He said: "It was a barbaric act by an individual with a poisoned ideology.

"Too often over the past few years we have seen terrorist attacks around the
world destroying families and livelihoods. "It must come to an end and I echo
the Prime Minister's comment that we are in a generational struggle' between a
minority of extremists, who want hatred to flourish and the rest of us who want
freedom to prosper."

Yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a minute's silence for the
victims of the attack will be held at noon on Friday.

Mr Stewart added: "It was an important move by the PM to announce a one minute
silence on Friday to remember those who passed away.

"Anyone in Milton Keynes who has been affected by the events in Tunisia please
don't hesitate to get in touch with myself or Mark Lancaster MP and we will do
all we can to assist."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MPMC


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:46 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: ISIS killer Seifiddine Rezgui high on drugs when he
carried out massacre;
Post-mortem results on the mass murderer revealed he had been pumped full of a
stimulant - believed to be cocaine - prior to his killing spree

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 963 words


ISIS killer Seifiddine Rezgui was high on drugs as he carried out the Sousse
massacre - and failed to detonate a bomb which would have brought even more
carnage.

Post-mortem results on the mass murderer revealed he had been pumped full of a
stimulant - believed to be cocaine - prior to his killing spree on the beach and
hotels of the Tunisian Mediterranean resort.

It could explain why he was seen laughing in the midst of the mayhem - and
failed to detonate a bomb which was found close to his body.

The revelations emerged as fears grew his IS terror cell could hit another
'soft' target on a suicide mission here within days.

More than 1,000 police and soldiers have been drafted in to cities, resorts and
hotels as one of the biggest manhunts in Tunisia's history tries to track down
two of Rezgui's associates.

But it is a race against time as authorities fear yet another attack on the
beleaguered tourist trade which has already seen 10,000 Brits leave in a mass
exodus since Friday - and 10,000 elect to stay.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

Cops are going through the killer's iPhone 4, fished out of the sea at Sousse on
Saturday, to trace fellow cell members.

Rezgui's drug-use came as it emerged he had a girlfriend in the university town
of Kairouan here where he planned his attack.

Pumping Jihadi warriors full of drugs is a classic IS tactic, with Iraq veterans
finding needles, amphetamines, heroin and cocaine on the battlefield.

The practice was seen in Saddam Hussein's Fedayeen guerilla fighters and is now
common in IS. It is claimed that it 'helps Jihad'.

Authorities here fear Rezgui was radicalised in Kairouan which locals call
"Jihadi Uni" because of its reputation for extremism.

At least two members of his cell trained and fought in Syria.

Rezgui is believed to have spent four months in Libya at an Islamic State
training camp before being sent to attack westerners in Tunisia.

It has been revealed by Tunisian interior minister Rafik Chelli that Rezgui
visited a jihadi training camp in Sabratha, western Libya, at the same time as
the two attackers who killed 22 at the Bardo Museum in capital Tunis in March.

He was lured into training and ultimately his horrendous terror attack by
intense doctrination, both at local mosques, and online.

Locals say he was a regular in an internet room at the Cafe de la Republique.

Rezgui put on a front to hide his extremist views, having alcohol, and sex with
a regular girlfriend.

He kept up his break-dancing and talked politics with students, including
communism.

But he had been groomed in Libyan Islamic State training camps to act like a
'laid back' student so that he would never be spotted.

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

He disappeared for four months four years ago, and his friends believe that the
break was his first training programme, either in Libya, or Tunisia.

Close friend Wassim Bel Adel claims Rezgui confessed to him that he was a
jihadist and had joined Islamic State or Daesh, as they are called across the
Arab world.

"We started to talk about what happened in Syria and about the various terrorist
groups who fight in Syria. From the start he said he supported the terror groups
in Syria," Bel Adel told Sky News.

"In 2011 he was with Al Nusra, then when Daesh started in Syria and Iraq he
changed his allegiance and supported DASH, and he loved everything they stood
for."

Bel Adel witnessed him associating more and more with extremists, and became
convinced he would carry out a terror attack.

He feared he was a 'time bomb' waiting to go off, groomed over years - and his
worst fears have now been realised.

A huge manhunt was underway for two men linked to Rezgui.

British intelligence and Scotland Yard officers are on the trail of the Islamic
State 'cell' which helped him murder 38 innocents, including 30 UK nationals.

The search is for suspects Mohamed bin Abdallah and Rafikhe Tayari.

Rezgui was only identified by his student card, and is believed to have been
part of a five-man terror 'cell' based in Kairouan where he completed an
engineering course, but stayed on for a postgrad studies at the Institut
Superieur des Sciences Appliquees et de Technologie de Kairouan (ISSAT).

Tunisian police arrested seven suspected members of the cell across three
different cities late on Monday.

It is believed three lived with Rezgui in Kairouan. They have not been seen at
the address for at least a month, locals have said.

The dramatic developments in the investigation came after the Mirror revealed
there were three suspected IS killers in Friday's shootings, with suggestions
from the Brit survivors that at least one survived and may be on the run.

The interior ministry published details of the two suspects on Facebook and
begged the public for information on the duo.

Bearded Abdallah is a 24-year-old student from a northern Tunisian town of
Benzart, while Tayari, 28, is from the capital Tunis.

A Scotland Yard team based in Sousse is assisting their Tunisia counterparts.

Fears are mounting that at least one the cell acted as a second gunman in Sousse
and may be still on the loose.

Police and survivors are increasingly convinced he had a gun-toting partner
during Friday's rampage.   Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said an
investigation was under way into security failures and there would be armed
tourist police on beaches. The president said heightened security had been
planned from tomorrow to coincide with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, but
that attacks on sunbathing tourists had not been anticipated. Mr Essebsi told
Europe 1 radio: "It is true we were surprised by this affair. They took measures
for the month of Ramadan but never did they think the attack would be on the
beaches against tourists, and the system of protection was set to start July 1."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:35 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: More families told their loved ones killed in the beach
bloodbath;
Among those confirmed to be among the 30 dead Brits was John Stollery, 58, a
veteran social worker from Worksop, Nottingham

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1752 words


More families have received devastating news that their loved ones were victims
of the Tunisian terror massacre.

Among those confirmed to be among the 30 dead Brits was John Stollery, 58, a
veteran social worker from Worksop, Nottingham.

His wife, Cheryl, escaped with her son as Islamic State extremist Seifeddine
Rezgui sprayed bullets at tourists sunbathing on the beach outside the Imperial
Marhaba Hotel in Sousse.

She has paid an emotional tribute to her 'super husband' who worked with
children in foster care for more than 33 years.

In a statement Cheryl, said: "John was special, he made a difference and gave
his best to others.

"We, his family, are proud of him and deeply saddened that he was taken from us
in such a horrific and tragic way.

"We still had a long life to life with plans and dreams for our future together.

"We love and miss him terribly and nothing will ever be the same again.

"He was a super husband and my best friend and a devoted dad to our son. He will
remain in our hearts and in our memory forever.

"Our thoughts are with others who have gone through this mindless act of
terrorism.

"We believe we all need to learn from what has happened and how it devastates
individual and family life, so as to prevent it from happening to others."

Married couple Janet, 63 and John Stocker, 74, of Crawley, Sussex, were also
confirmed among the victims.

Mr Stocker, a retired printer, and his wife had five children and ten
grandchildren.

The retired couple's son, Mark, from Crawley, launched a desperate appeal for
information after the massacre on Friday morning.

But their family said in a statement: "It is with regret and great sadness that
we can now confirm that our parents Janet and John Stocker have tragically lost
their lives as a result of Friday's atrocities.

"We would like to thank all those that helped us with information in trying to
locate them, and we appreciate the support and help that we have received from
both the British and Tunisian people and authorities."

The family added in statement Mrs Stocker "was a fun-loving and devoted mother'
who "loved nothing more than being around all of the grandchildren".

The family said: "They made a huge impact on our lives, and touched the hearts
of so many people and they will both be sorely missed and never forgotten by the
family and all that knew and loved them for all the reasons that made them so
special as a couple, and as the two most honest and genuine people that they
were.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said 22 of the British victims killed in the
terrorist attack have been officially identified - more than five days after
Rezgui launched his murderous rampage.

It is claimed Rezgui travelled to an IS training camp in neighbouring Libya
before smuggling an assault rifle back through the border with Tunisia.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

Specialists from the Met Police are examining the bodies of another eight
British tourists at a morgue connected to the Charles Nicolle hospital in the
capital Tunis.

Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, near Perth, had not been heard from since
the attack at the Sousse on Friday.

Billy's older brother, Lindsay Graham, has confirmed the the couple died in the
terror attack.

They were visiting the resort to celebrate Lisa's 50th birthday. Billy, 51, had
worked as a turnstile operator at St Johnstone football club.

Steve Brown, the chairman of the club, said: "This is terrible news and our
thoughts go out to the whole family at this time.

"Billy was part of the St Johnstone family and a great ambassador for the club,
who always did his job with a smile on his face."

The couple had arrived on June 17 and were due to come home tomorrow.

Their daughter Holly Graham, 29, said her parents usually phoned her every day
from their holiday but the calls stopped on the day of the attack.

Her father had retired from the Army after serving in Northern Ireland, Kuwait
and Iraq.

Billy's sister Lindsay Graham said: "I would like to say how heartbroken we all
are, also that they were a lovely couple and will be sorely missed.

"We are all proud of Billy serving his country for 22 years in the Army. Our
hearts and thoughts go out to their daughter Holly."

Other British nationals feared to have died in the attack include retired
scientist David Thompson, from Tadley, Hampshire.

The 80-year-old is understood to have worked for the Atomic Weapons
Establishment, and has been described as a very fit person and a keen walker.

His family released a statement through Hampshire police asking for their
privacy to be respected.

John Welch, 74, from Corsham in Wiltshire, and his partner Eileen Swannack, 70,
are also feared dead.

They have not made contact with their family since the massacre.

Chris Dyer, 32, is also feared to have died in the attack.

He was on holiday with his wife Gina Van Dort, 30, a quantity surveyor, when he
was gunned down.

His wife was seriously injured after being shot in the face, but clung to her
husband as paramedics tried to get her to safety.

Mr Dyer, an engineer from Watford in north London was a sports fan and member of
the Watford Gracie Jiu-Jitsu.

The club released a montage video of Chris, 32, on their Facebook page, and
wrote: "It is with great sorrow that we announce the tragic death of our
teammate Chris Dyer as a result of the Tunisia shootings. Our hearts go out to
his family. May he rest in peace."

Four severely injured Brits landed back in the UK in the early hours of
yesterday morning.

An RAF C-17 Globemaster plane arrived into Birmingham Airport carrying Cheryl
Mellor, 55, from Bodmin, Cornwall; John Metcalf, 43, of Hazlemere, Bucks; Gina
Van Dort, 30, of Watford, and Allison Heathcote, 48, of Felixstowe, Suffolk.

Mrs Heathcote's husband Philip, 52, was killed as they celebrated their 30th
wedding anniversary at the hotel.

She is being treated at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham for
"life-threatening and life-changing injuries".

A spokesman for the University Hospitals Birmingham Trust said, which runs the
hospital, said Allison had undergone five hours of surgery after suffering three
gunshot wounds to her torso and two to her right arm and shoulder.

The spokesman added: "With the consent of the patient's family, we can confirm
that Allison Heathcote, aged 48, was admitted to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital
Birmingham at 12.45am on Tuesday following safe medical evacuation from Tunisia.

"Allison was admitted to the operating theatre at 9am. She has undergone five
hours of surgery for review and future planning of her injuries.

"Following surgery, Allison was transferred back to the Critical Care Unit and
remains in a critical but stable condition, under sedation. Family members were
visiting her this afternoon."

The other three wounded victims are understood to have been taken to major
trauma centres across the UK.

Meanwhile the distraught family of fashion blogger Carly Lovett, 24, the first
British victim to be named, paid an emotional tribute to their "shining light".

She was on holiday with fiance Liam Moore, who survived the attack and has since
returned home to Gainsborough, Lincs.

The pair were childhood sweethearts and had been planning their dream wedding
before the tragedy.

Liam, Carly's parents Joanne and Ken, her siblings and step-parents issued a
moving statement through Lincolnshire Police.

They said: "Carly was and always will be our beautiful shining light. She was
funny, clever, artistic and radiated love and happiness around her.

"Carly recently got engaged to Liam, her childhood sweetheart of 10 years.

"Both were excited and looking forward to a bright future together filled with
love and happiness.

"This has now been cruelly taken away.

"To move forward through this we will try to do what we believe Carly would want
and that is to love, cherish and support each other.

"The support received from family, friends and people we don't know has been
overwhelming and has been a great comfort to us all.

"Carly, may you soar with the angels and we pray with all our hearts that this
evil, and such disregard for human life, will end so no other family will feel
the pain that we do today and always will."

Tributes were also paid to Ex-Birmingham City footballer Denis Thwaites, 70, and
retired hotelier wife Elaine, 69, whose deaths were confirmed on Monday.

Their daughter Lindsey Clifford had desperately appealed for information
following the massacre.

Lindsey's husband Daniel said in a statement: "We can say that both Lindsey and
I flew to Tunisia and we can confirm that a positive identification was made by
Lindsey of her mother and father Elaine and Denis.

"There is now a void in our lives that will never be filled, but your thoughts
and words will keep Lindsey and I strong at this most difficult time.

"Mum and Dad were the kindest, caring, loving parents any daughter could wish
for. Rest in Peace now my Angels xxxx.

Despite the tragic deaths of dozens of British holidaymakers, tales of
incredible fortune continued to emerge.

Nicola Alty told how she narrowly avoided tragedy after her family went back to
their hotel to get more suncream.

Nicola, 33, of Walton, Liverpool, was staying with her boyfriend, mother and
children in the hotel next to where the massacre happened in Sousse.

Nicola said: "We were going to go on the pedalos but decided to go back to get
some more suncream. We could so easily have been caught up in it."

Mother-of-two Katie Spencer from Blackburn, Lancs, told how she escaped the
attack by hiding in her hotel loo.

The 24-year-old huddled with her young children and fiance during the killing
spree.

The petrified family remained holed up in the hotel suite room for 10 hours
before being given the all clear.

At one point Katie, of Blackburn, Lancs, revealed how 16 year-old Owen Richards
of Wednesbury, West Midlands, - who lost three members of his family in the
massacre - ran into the hotel foyer "covered in blood".

Student Katie said she took refuge in the Soviva Resort Hotel with her partner
Mark Turner, 27, his brother Mick, 31, and her two sons Noah, four, and Oliver,
one, as shots were fired.

Katie said: "I wasn't too far away from the hotel when I heard the first shot
and I just ran back to the pool where my children and partner were. "I have
never screamed so loud before in my life.

"We raced into the hotel reception and that's when Owen Richards, the boy who
lost three members of his family, burst in covered in blood and he looked in
complete shock."

Tunisia Attack survivors relive the moment they had to run for their lives

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:30 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Massacre plot hatched by Seifiddine Rezgui in tiny flat
in dusty back street;
Neighbours say Rezgui and his five flat mates kept a low profile in the
£100-a-month former family home at No 56, Sidi Belkassem, in the university town
of Kairouan

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


The Islamic State terror plot was hatched by mass murderer Seifiddine Rezgui in
a tiny flat down a dusty back street.

Neighbours say he and his five flat mates kept a low profile in the £100-a-month
former family home at No 56, Sidi Belkassem, in the university town of Kairouan.

Rezgui was only seen in the evenings when he made his way to the local Cafe de
Republique to smoke a Shisha pipe, drink tea with his friends - and use the
wi-fi upstairs to plan Jihad.

Neighbour Karuther Gemgemi, 40, a mum-of-three, saw him outside the white-washed
walls of the run-down property, and recognised him instantly when his face
appeared on TV.

"None of us had any idea what he planned," she said. "No idea it had anything to
do with him. This is not Islam, it is pure evil."

She saw him smoking a Shisha pipe in the cafe, drinking tea with some of the
dozen or so young men seen going in and out.

"He seemed quiet, but quite friendly, well-mannered, a normal student."

The two men hunted by cops, Mohamed bin Abdallah and Rafikhe Tayari were not
recognised by locals who were desperate to make clear that the men were not from
their town, but came to study.

Ahmed Codia, 66, who runs a picture framing business across the road, now sees a
more sinister side to Rezgui's frequent need for the Internet at the cafe.

He told the Mirror: "They kept a low profile, going in and out, they were not
observed much by neighbours so that is a problem now when people ask about them.

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

"Mostly they went to the Cafe and used the wi-fi, it was the room above the
coffee shop.

"Was he getting in touch with friends? I don't think so.

"It is more likely these people were terrorists."

Mohammed Said, deputy Iman at the Mosque of the Seven Virgins just yards from
Rezgui's front door, saw four or five students, "one or two" would come in to
pray.

"A couple of them liked to drink wine or beer," he added.

"I would see them, say hallo, shake hands. But I would not call them religious."

Footage has emerged of the apartment where Tunisian attacker, lived before he
carried out his violent attack

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:41 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Holiday firms offering huge discounts on breaks following
the massacre;
The online discounts for holidays to the North African country relate to flights
from the second week of July

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


Holiday companies are offering huge discounts on breaks to Tunisia following the
massacre in Sousse.

The online discounts for holidays to the North African country relate to flights
from the second week of July.

Thomas Cook have 18-47 per cent off eight holidays to Sousse, all flying out in
July.

The company is offering a 47 per cent discount for a seven night, half board
stay at the five-star Movenpick Resort & Spa, in Sousse, Tunisia.

An online discount of £842 would mean two adults would pay £934 for a twin room
and flights from London Gatwick to Enfhida in Tunisia.

To stay at the resort - a 20 minute drive from Hotel Imperial Marhaba where
gunman Seifeddine Rezgui carried out Friday's attack - would normally cost
£1,776, according to the Thomas Cook website.

Video: Tunisia terror attacks - tourists arrive back to Glasgow

Thomas Cook is also offering £430 off a seven night all inclusive holiday for
two adults staying at the Marhaba Club.

The holiday's original price was £1,284 but after the online discount of 33 per
cent, tourists could pay £854 to stay in a twin room.

Similarly, a holiday to Tunisia staying at Marhaba Beach has been discounted by
£470 (32 per cent).

The trip for two adults staying in a twin room for seven nights, all inclusive
would cost £1,006 - down from £1,476.

Around 4,000 Thomas Cook UK guests have left Tunisia since the attack on Friday,
June 26.

A spokeswoman for the company confirmed that the hotel where the attack took
place is not offered by Thomas Cook.

She added that following Friday's attack, Thomas Cook is offering its customers
due to travel to Tunisia up to and including July 12, the opportunity to cancel
or change their holiday free of charge.

For those travelling from July 1 onwards, customers are able to amend their
bookings to the country free of charge for holidays departing until October 31.

Thomson are also offering discounted holidays.

The discounts - shown in red on the main page after searching for holidays in
Tunisia.

The biggest discount is for the Hotel Thalassa Sousse flying from Bristol on
Sunday, July 12 and returning a week later on Sunday, July 19.

The total price for the holiday, which would normally cost £1,534, is £1,030,
which includes £506 total discount for an all inclusive stay at the hotel for
two adults in a twin room.

British holidaymakers defy the terrorists and continue to stay in Sousse despite
beach attack

Thomson is also offering £356 off a seven night stay at Scheherazade Sousse, an
adults-only hotel on a private beach, for two adults.

The discounted holiday - which includes flights, coach transfers and a double
room with a sea view, would normally cost £1,566 but is reduced to £1,212 after
the discount.

Hotel Marhaba Beach, in Sousse, Tunisia, is also available to holidaymakers with
an online discount of £356.

For just £940, two adults can stay in a twin room at the all-inclusive hotel for
seven nights.

A spokeswoman for Thomson said customers planning to travel to Tunisia up until
the end of October 31 would be able to amend their holidays free of charge to
any of the company's other destinations.

She added that the company have extended the cancellation of all their holidays
to Tunisia up to and including July 9, with those planning to travel during this
time given the chance to change or

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Mass exodus as 10,000 Brits flee the country after the
massacre;
A significant number are thought to have come back from Sousse, the beach resort
where Seifiddine Rezgui shot 38 holidaymakers dead

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 788 words


An army of 10,000 Brits has returned home in a mass exodus from Tunisia - but
another 10,000 are defiantly staying on, it has emerged.

A significant number are thought to have come back from Sousse, the beach resort
where Seifiddine Rezgui shot 38 holidaymakers dead as they sunbathed, before
continuing his rampage in a nearby hotel.

Half returned on scheduled flights, with the remainder using specially
commissioned planes arranged by airlines and travel companies.

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice have helped more than 4,000 customers
return since Friday. Thomas Cook said it had repatriated a similar number.

Some insurance companies have offered to cover abandoned or cancelled holidays
to Sousse where tour operators cannot help.

Victoria Bacon, of the Association of British Travel Agents said: "The Tunisian
tourism industry is going to be badly hit, certainly in the short term, by this.

Repatriation of British citizens critically injured in the Tunisian terror
attack

"The nature of events on Friday was really awful and I think people have reacted
to that.

"Initially some people have elected to come home and others to reconsider their
bookings, but we are also seeing people saying 'no, we want to continue with our
holidays'."

Kenya and Egypt experienced a dramatic short-term fall in visitors, before
numbers quickly bounced back after previous terror attacks.

She added: "I think we will see this news impacting in the immediate short term,
but the longer term is hard to predict."

Despite Friday's attack, Ms Bacon said Sousse is not facing a "shutdown" as "a
significant" number of people have chosen to stay.

One British couple arrived at the Imperial Marhaba hotel just hours before the
terror attack on Friday - and have defiantly elected to remain for the rest of
their two week holiday, despite cowering in a changing room for an hour as the
attack happened.

People who want to change their travel plans should contact their operator or
travel agent, Ms Bacon said.

She added those who have booked holidays independently rather than via package
deals are advised to contact their airlines and hotels, but warned they may not
be able to get refunds.

Thomson and First Choice holiday firms have said their priorities "remain to
provide support to the families of those who so tragically lost loved ones in
Friday's incident, caring for the injured and bringing home those customers from
Tunisia who wish to return".

A spokeswoman said: "We are aware that some families continue to wait for news
of their loved ones.

"We would like to reassure those in this position that we are doing everything
we can to provide information as soon as we are able to do so."

Anyone with concerns about friends and families should continue to phone the
companies' helpline on 0800 088 5372.

Video: Tunisia beach massacre - Injured flown back to UK hospitals

All holidays to Tunisia which have been booked through the companies have been
cancelled up to and including 9 July - with a full refund offered to customers.

Customers can change their booking to another destination free of charge.

Holidaymakers who are returning to the UK on repatriation flights are also
entitled to a refund for the cost of their trip.

Tourists who have paid to travel to Tunisia between now and 31 July can make
amendments to their booking free of charge.

Anyone with a holiday to the country booked before October 31 can change their
destination for free and will be offered a £50 discount per person on 15 new
flights the company is offering to other destinations.

Those booked to travel in July should contact the customer service centre on
0800 009 3835 or 020 3636 1996 or visit a Thomson or First Choice shop.

Customers booked to travel between August and October are asked to change their
booking by visiting their local branch after July 6.

Thomas Cook said it has so far brought back approximately 1,500 customers who
wanted to leave earlier than scheduled, on four flights.

People travelling to Tunisia with the company up to July 12 can cancel or change
their holiday free of charge. Those travelling from 13 July to 31

October can amend their bookings for free.

Easyjet has said customers who have booked to travel to Monastir in Tunisia
within the next 14 days can have a free flight transfer on any date and on any
route, or alternatively a flight voucher.

Monarch and Cosmos said people who have booked trips with them in the next seven
days can choose not to travel and instead change their destination.

Insurance companies have also offered extra help.

Aviva said its travel insurance customers who are unable to get support or
recover costs from their tour operators will be covered for abandoning or
cancelling holidays to Sousse until further notice.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 3:34 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Terrified British family texted their goodbyes as they
hid from gunman for five hours;
Andrea Scott was on holiday with her three teenage children as they hid in a
dark bathroom for five hours while telling family they loved them

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words


A horrified British family hid in a bathroom for five hours texting relatives
their goodbyes after fleeing from the screams and bloodshed of the Tunisia beach
massacre.

Andrea Scott, 43, was on the beach with son Jonathan 15, daughter Rebecca, 17,
and Rebecca's 18-year-old boyfriend Owen Lucas when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire.

They fled in panic and Andrea turned and saw other tourists covered in blood,
heard their screams as gunshots were fired and grenades were detonated.

They ran to their hotel room at the Bellevue Park hotel in Sousse and barricaded
the doors and windows with beds and other furniture.

They then cowered in a dark bathroom for five hours - texting their family in
the UK to say their goodbyes.

Now safely back home in Peterlee, Co Durham, Andrea said: "I could never explain
to anybody what it was like.

"Towards the end of the five hours of us being in that bathroom, I began to wish
that he would have just taken us out because I couldn't do it any longer.

"Seeing your kids so frightened and fearing for their lives was awful, it was
horrific."

She added: "I knew it was bad from the second I heard the first shot when we
were on the sun loungers.

"My gut instinct was to shout to the kids 'grab your bags and run for your
lives'. We started running in sheer panic.

"The kids were in front of me and I was looking behind and I could just see
people covered in blood.

"I cant describe the fear of running and thinking you are going to be shot in
the back.

"We reached the hotel and found some stairs going up the side of the hotel
instead of going into the reception where we normally would have.

"We later found out that two gunmen had walked into the reception of our hotel.

"As we were running, the maids were all running for cover. We ran into Rebecca
and Owen's room and barricaded ourselves in.

"We sat on the floor in silence and another gunshot went off. We were just
cuddling each other and saying we loved each other. We thought we were going to
die."

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

At one point the family feared the gunman could have even been at the door when
they heard a knocking and a "chilling" voice shouted "British".

Hours later Jonathan and Andrea crept out and looked from the patio window of
their room, which was on the first floor, and saw a gunman walking around the
grounds of their hotel just 15ft away from them.

Andrea, who works at KNS Automotives, was texting her boss for updates - and it
was information from him, and the silence outside the hotel which gave Andrea
and her family the courage to venture down to the reception.

Andrea, students Jonathan and Rebecca, and shop assistant Owen, from Easington,
got on a coach from the hotel at midnight on Saturday night - just two days into
their week-long break - and got a flight from Tunisia to Doncaster, South
Yorks., at around 4.30am.

They were met by anti-terror police who are due to go out and interview the
family today about the attacks.

Andrea said: "I don't think well ever get over it. I feel so sorry for the
people who lost their lives. We will be going for counselling."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising against all travel to several
areas of Tunisia. Anyone concerned about friends or family in Tunisia should
call (0207) 0080000, or text Tunisia to +447860010026.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:17 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Was 'man in red shorts' hero lifeguard who tried to shoot
gunman dead?;
Eyewitnesses claim they saw the mystery man trying to shoot at ISIS gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui as the terrorist slaughtered Brits on the beach

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


The 'man in red shorts' who Tunisia massacre survivors believe was a second ISIS
gunman may have in fact been a lifeguard who heroically tried to shoot dead the
rampaging terrorist, it has been reported.

Fears were growing that killer Seiffeddine Rezgui was not acting alone when he
shot dead up to 30 Brits in the Tunisian slaughter.

Several guests at the five-star Riu Imperial Marhaba spoke of more than one
gunman being present in the lobby when Rezgui entered from the nearby beach.

Meanwhile other eye witness accounts suggested he was accompanied on the beach
itself in Sousse with another gunman who was dressed in red shorts.

The confusion and chaos surrounding the incident has added to growing concerns
that a second gunman may have escaped before police marksmen arrived.

However, fresh eye-witness accounts have come to light which suggests that the
'man in the red shorts' may have in fact been a lifeguard.

They say that a large group of about 30 men had gathered around the swimming
pool below Rezgui - including a member of the coastguard who was armed with a
handgun. He had arrived on a small craft.

One witness, 22-year-old Amir Khalifa Belhaj, says both he and his brother Aymen
saw the lifeguard aiming fire at crazed gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in an attempt
to prevent more victims being killed.

Footage has emerged of the apartment where Tunisian attacker, lived before he
carried out his violent attack

He told the Guardian: "He was trying to fire it at the guy, but it was like he
didn't know how to get the safety catch off or something.

"I don't know if the guy saw him or not.

"The waiter hiding beside me just let out a wild shout to try and distract the
gunman."

However British tourists have claimed that there were three gunmen who took part
in the Tunisian beach massacre, and with Tunisia's interior ministry yet to
release an official account of events from Friday, the picture remains unclear.

Some present at the beach have also claimed that the 'man in red shorts' story
is untrue.

One elderly British guest at the Marhaba said eyewitnesses were convinced there
was another gunman who came into the hotel reception at the height of the
mayhem.

The woman, who asked not to be named, said: "I spoke with guests afterwards, and
they thought another man came in and was firing as the main gunman entered.

"It is hard to know, but there appeared to be more than one person firing. The
problem is so many of the people who were here have now gone home.

"There were hundreds of Brits in the hotel on Friday - it was deserted by
Saturday morning."

And the confusion could continue, as many Brits left before giving their account
of what happened to police.

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hero workers who formed human shield to protect tourists
describe 'moment of destiny';
Tunisians who faced down from rampaging Seifeddine Rezgui say they lined against
him in the belief he would not shoot Arabic people

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Hero Tunisian workers who formed a human shield to protect tourists from
rampaging Seifeddine Rezgui have described the moment they faced down the
gunman.

Brit tourists had previously described the amazing moment Tunisians formed a
human barrier which forced Rezgui to turn away from a nearby hotel as he
targeted tourists with a Kalashnikov.

Now the brave locals have said they faced 'a moment of destiny' as they took
their lives into their own hands and went face-to-face with the gunman.

Paragliding instructor Ibrahim al-Ghoul, 18, ran into the firing line after the
massacre had begun in the belief he wouldn't shoot Tunisians.

He told the Guardian : "At that point we opened our breasts against the bullets.
I felt he wouldn't shoot at so many Arabic people in front of him."

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

Hotel entertainment organiser Yassine Sadkaoui said: "Someone from the Marhaba
had shouted over to me: 'Some people are still alive. Come on!

"At that moment, it was destiny. It didn't matter if you got killed or not."

Holidaymaker John Yeoman revealed to the Mirror Online how the act of heroism
had saved the lives of some Brits on the beach.

He said: "It's amazing what they did. The staff were in a line and they were
shouting at him, saying 'we won't let you through'."

Waiter Anis Gamaoun, who was also part of the human shield, said Rezgui turned
around and moved calmly back down the beach after being faced by the wall of
people.

Pictures show some of the group with their arms outstretched as the gunman makes
his way back down the beach.

A total of 38 people - mostly tourists were killed in the massacre on Friday.

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 11:11 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Five eye-witnesses who are certain they saw second
gunman;
A string of eye-witnesses have come forward to say they saw a second gunman
acting with IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui during the beach massacre

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 685 words


A string of eye-witnesses have come forward to say they saw a second gunman
during the murderous rampage on a Tunisian beach.

IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, was thought to have been the only gunman
involved in the massacre and is the only gunman to have been identified by
Tunisian police so far.

But as a series of witnesses come forward one Tunisian police officer has
conceded: "I can't say too much but what I can say is there were two gunmen".

Here are the accounts so far:

Steve Johnson

The 65-year-old retired police officer, who was on holiday with wife Valerie
spotted a second suspect wearing red shorts.

He said: "We were on the beach when I heard gunshots and screaming and I told
people to 'run' and got off the beach as fast as I could.

"We were really close and I could hear just the constant noise of an automatic
weapon.

"I saw a man in red shorts. He can't have been more than 20 yards away from us.

"We ran across wasteland and into a spa and hid in the basement while gunshots
and grenades and everything was going off around us.

"After about 20 minutes we crept up to the third floor and we could see him
shooting people around the pool.

"It was 40 minutes later when a Tunisian policeman came to get us and he took us
through a corridor from the spa to the hotel.

"On the floor was a body, covered mainly with a sheet, but I could see he was
the right build and colouring of the man I had seen. "And he had the red shorts
on. Then when we got the news we saw that it was being reported that there was
just a single shooter.

"So I went back to see the Tunisian policeman who said that the guy in red had
definitely been shot. I congratulated him.

"But the second shooter is still not being reported and I don't know why. Mick
had seen both gunmen and we are sure there were two of them."

Michael Perry

The retired police officer, 66, was with Mr Johnson when the shooting broke out.

He said he spotted the second gunman saw the man "stooped" bare-chested and
running with a weapon.

He added that he asked a police officer what had happened to him. The police
officer is said to have replied: "We shot him".

Kirsty Murray

The 25-year-old nurse from Braintree, Essex, was at the Hotel Marhaba pool with
fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29, when Rezgui opened fire on the adjoining beach.

Her dad Neil, speaking from the hospital where she is being treated after being
hit by shrapnel in a grenade blast described what she saw.

He told the Daily Mail : She believes there were at least two gunmen because she
was shot at close range with a handgun.

"Both her and her fiancé have said there was more than one gunman. One person is
not capable of doing that much damage."

Tunisian police have said they have arrested seven people across three cities in
the wake of the massacre.

British and ­Tunisian officers have been ­quizzing ­survivors to see if he acted
alone.

Lee Inwood

Lee, 43, from Norfolk, said he saw a "group" of people hanging around the beach
and acting strangely with Rezgui before he opened fire.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

Lee added he believes there was 'at least' a second gunman and that hotel staff
had told him three shooters were involved.

He told ITV News : "They were just hanging around outside the hotel. Straight
away when they were there, I thought, 'oh, that's strange. It doesn't feel right
at all.

"It didn't feel like a lone person attack at all."

Tony Hines

Tony, from Toftwood, Norfolk, was on holiday at the Hotel Imperial Marhab hotel
with his family when he was caught up in the shooting.

He said: "I ran like hell away from where it was happening. I went through and
hid behind some posts about 150 yards away.

"I could see him come in, he came in and reloaded his magazine, stuck a magazine
in, got up to near the pool, I see him up with his gun and fire towards the
steps.

"Later on we found three dead bodies on the steps, so he'd obviously shot them.

"I looked down (from the window) and underneath me was another guy with a gun.

"He was definitely a Tunisian. He was in red shorts, with no top on. He seemed
to know what was going on."

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:47 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Family escape beach massacre after returning to hotel room for
suncream;
Nicola Alty and he family were on the way back to the beach when a fellow
holidaymaker told them not to continue because there had been a terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Helen Davies

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words


A family narrowly escaped tragedy in the Tunisian terrorist attack - because
they went to get more suncream.

Instead of going straight to the beach, Nicola Alty and her three children
returned to their hotel room for lotion.

The 33-year-old mother, from Liverpool, could have been among the gunman's
victims if they had headed for the shore, reports the Liverpool Echo.

Nicola and her young family was staying with her boyfriend, mum and children in
the hotel next to where the massacre happened in Sousse.

Family escape Tunisia attack after returning to hotel room for suncream - AUDIO

She said: "We were going to go on the pedalos but decided to go back to get some
more suncream.

"We could so easily have been caught up in it."

The family were on the way back to the beach when a fellow holidaymaker told
them not to continue because there had been a terrorist attack.

Nicola said: "I just grabbed the kids and ran up to the room and then we heard
the sirens.

"I could see the sea from our window, the coastguard was going up and down and
the beach got evacuated.

"I was sobbing in the room. When the children knew there was a gunman out there
they were really upset.

"The eldest couldn't sleep and was asking loads of questions.

"I feel we had a really lucky escape, I feel devastated for the people killed
and how easily it could have been us.

"I still keep crying."

The family were on the last day of a two week holiday when the terrorist attack
happened and they spent that afternoon and evening in their room, apart from
venturing down for dinner.

Tunisia Attack survivors relive the moment they had to run for their lives

Nicola said: "I was terrified getting out of the hotel and back to the airport.
I was thinking our coach was going to get ambushed on the way back.

"I wasn't happy until I was back in the UK."

On their return to Manchester Airport the family were interviewed by counter
terrorism police along with other holidaymakers from the resort.

Nicola said she had wanted to cancel the trip back in March after the terrorist
attack in Tunisa then.

But, the mum-of-three was told it would cost her £2,000 to change location which
she couldn't afford.

She said she spent her whole holiday worrying a terrorist attack would happen.

Nicola said: "I was anxious but I just tried to be normal for the kids.

"I'd tried to cancel loads of times with what had happened in March. We were
told it could happen to anywhere.

She added: "I think it'd down to the government and tour operators. I think they
should have stopped all travel there.

"The threat was there in March, that's how I feel."

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:56 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Terror cops stage massive training exercise as fears of UK mass
shooting grow;
The multi-agency counter-terrorism "major live play exercise" has been planned
since January and will involve a number of locations, the Metropolitan Police
said

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words


A mock terrorist firearms attack is being staged in London today as fears of a
Tunisian-style mass shooting in the UK grow.

The multi-agency counter-terrorism "major live play exercise" - which will end
tomorrow afternoon - has been planned since January and will involve a number of
locations, the Metropolitan Police said.

The Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the hostage-taking siege in Sydney had an
"influence" on the test, according to deputy assistant commissioner and director
of the exercise Maxine de Brunner.

She said it was the Met's view that it had never before put together an exercise
of this magnitude and said it would be "very realistic".

She also said the Mumbai attacks of 2008 "and other attacks around the world"
were thought through in the planning of the exercise.

But the Met said the test was in no way connected to or prompted by the massacre
in Tunisia last week.

Ms de Brunner said: "Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside
our colleagues, have to deal with the tragic events of July 2005.

"Given the changing nature of the very real terrorism threat and events around
the world - Paris and Australia - we need to constantly adapt our plans and
prepare for new and emerging threats.

"What is vitally important to all the agencies involved who routinely work
together, and to Londoners, is that when the very worst happens we are prepared
to be the very best and we can understand how each other work and how we'll all
operate together."

The exercise comes the day after PM David Cameron said security forces have
stopped up to five 'prominent' terror plots on British soil in the last few
months.

She added: "Exercising is a vital part of our preparedness to respond to any
major incident in London. It helps us to ensure that we and all our partners are
(as) ready as we can be for whatever might happen."

Major terror exercise around abandoned tube station in London

The exercise will see a test of the emergency service response to an attack at
the disused Tube station at Aldwych.

It is developed by the Home Office and the Met and is part of a Home Office
national counter-terrorism rolling exercise programme across the country.

Over the course of two days, the Met, emergency services, the Government and key
London agencies will be "put through our paces to test our response to a major
incident", Ms de Brunner said.

"What is particularly significant about this exercise is that throughout it
there will be significant live play elements. That means us and our colleagues
actually responding to an incident on the ground," she said.

"So the exercise scenario is designed to test command and control and
co-ordination of a multi-site marauding terrorist attack."

The first responders will be challenged by mounting an operation to contain the
area, evacuate the public, rescue and treat the wounded, manage a crime scene,
and catch the people responsible.

Within the Met "every level" of the response will be tested from the first
responders to the decision makers.

Cameron: Security forces have foiled 4 or 5 'prominent' ISIS plots in the last
few months

How agencies co-ordinate their response throughout the incident will be explored
as well as how they link to government crisis decision making.

More than a thousand officers from the Met will participate, but policing levels
across London will remain unaffected by the exercise.

"This exercise is focussed in the extreme end of what may happen," Ms de Brunner
said, adding that it was not taking place in response to any specific
intelligence.

She said some of the activity would be "highly visible and audible" to the
public, as elements would be "noisy".

The vast majority of police officers involved have no idea about the venues or
what is planned, and know only that they are taking part in an exercise.

Only around 12 people will know the fine details of the exercise in advance.

The aim is to get the "maximum learning" from it and there will be a full
debrief.

Among those taking part are all of London's emergency services, Greater London
Authority, Transport for London, Home Office, Cabinet Office, Ministry of
Defence, the Department of Health and NHS England.

Surrey Street will be shut for the day in order to minimise disruption.

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Police test response time to terrorist attacks on London days after Tunisia
massacre

BYLINE: Fiona Simpson

SECTION: GRAVESEND

LENGTH: 182 words


Police in London will take part in an exercise to test the city's response time
to gun-wielding terrorists today.

Operation Strong Tower will see emergency service staff and Government officials
test their tactical responses should an attack take place in the capital.

The operation will run today (June 30) and tomorrow (July 1) and will see
tactical response on the ground visible to passers-by outside the disused
Aldwych underground station in Surrey Street, in the West End.

The operation - which has taken six months to plan - comes just days after the
Tunisia beach massacre which has left at least 15 Britons dead.

An Eltham woman and a couple from Swanley survived.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Maxine de Brunner, who is the Exercise Director,
said: "Testing and exercising is a really important way to ensure that our plans
to respond to a major incident or terrorist attack are as good as they can be.

"The exercise scenario will test our tactical response including working with
our emergency services partners, containing the situation, evacuating the
injured and managing a crime scene."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Terror attacks

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 333 words


THE BLAME for the deaths of those poor defenceless souls murdered by a deranged
gunman on a beach in Tunisia lies squarely on the hands of our and America's
government.

I'm afraid the saying you only reap what you sow is the only way of describing
these increasing terrorist attacks carried out against the innocent. Take the
murder of Tony Blair's one-time pal Colonel Gaddafi a leader ran his country
with a rod of iron.

Or Saddam Hussain - a tyrant definitely, yes - but still the leader of Iraq.

What right do we have to go in to a country, remove its leadership and then
leave the rest to get on with it thinking all will be well?

We are now paying the price for interfering with other cultures and countries
during the past decade.

How would you feel if someone just decided to come over here and kill whoever
they want?

I'm afraid all of this is of our own doing and we should hang our head in shame.

Winston Churchill fought for our country when a tyrant threatened it. Do we
expect those we wrong to curl up and hide? What a pity it's too late for an
Elastoplast. Action is required and admitting we were wrong would be a good
place to start.

John Cumberland, Rushyford.

ISIS terrorism aims to trigger social upheaval and violence in Europe. They want
racist attacks in retaliation; they want more 'martyrs' on all sides to tip us
into a wider war.

Let's be strong on security, yet statesman-like in addressing genuine grievances
such as Palestine, Iraq and Syria. We must confront prejudice, poverty,
persecution and fundamentalism wherever it exists .

Across the North-East we need increased conversations between our diverse
communities to gain better understanding on how we address the risk of all forms
of radicalisation - the risks it poses to our young people and the social
cohesion of our region.

We should not just observe and shake our heads in disbelief hoping this will not
effect us.

It already does, and we need to do something positive about it.

Ian Jones, North-East Liberal Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

police fear 'lone wolf' attack;
Fresh uK terror warning ; We must smash jihadis says PM

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 898 words


DAVID Cameron last night called for the Islamist terrorists in Iraq and Syria to
be crushed as it emerged Britain is on high alert for a "lone wolf" attack
following the Tunisian beach massacre.

The Prime Minister warned that military action was needed to tackle the
fanatics, who were plotting to commit bloody outrages on British soil, But he
declared: "We will not give up our way of life or cower in the face of
terrorism."

And he revealed details of a two-day exercise to prepare for an attack in
Britain.

Mr Cameron briefed a hushed House of Commons after chairing a meeting of Cobra,
the Whitehall crisis committee, responding to the beach slaughter last Friday by
Seifeddine Rezgui in the resort of Sousse.

The official UK death toll stands at 18, but it is expected to rise to around
30.

Mr Cameron told MPs: "Over the next two days our security forces and emergency
services will conduct a major training exercise in London to test and refine the
UK's preparedness for dealing with a serious terrorist attack."

The test had been planned in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo murders in Paris in
January, Downing Street said.

And it came as police launched their biggest counter-terror operation since the
7/7 attacks in TURN TO PAGE 4 from PAGE ONE 2005 over fears that sub-machineguns
smuggled to Britain could be used in a copycat attack.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the Metropolitan Police's top
counter-terrorism officer, said the operation includes officers on the ground in
Tunisia and hundreds at airports, looking for British witnesses to Friday's
massacre.

Mr Rowley said: 'The national policing response to the attack in Tunisia is
likely to be one of the largest counter-terrorism deployments seen since July
2005."

Whitehall sources are concerned that some of the 350 Britons who have joined
ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, also known as IS) in Syria are trying to
direct an attack in the UK.

A senior security official said: "They can send back a message, instructions or
try to inspire something.

"It is a big mistake to think these people need to be on British soil in order
to pose a threat to Britain."

However, the biggest threat is still thought to be an attack by a 'lone wolf'
unconnected to any terror cell.

Acting Labour leader Harriet Harman told the Commons MPs were meeting in "dark
times" following the worst terrorist attack on Britons since the 7/7 London
attacks.

Silence Mr Cameron announced a national minute's silence to commemorate the
massacre will be held at noon this Friday. "I know the whole country will want
to share in a moment of remembrance," he told the Commons.

He likened the extremists to Soviet communism, vowing to step up the effort to
extinguish their "poisonous narrative".

"Just as in the Cold War we had to confront the ideology, we have to do so
again," he added.

As MPs debated the response to the massacre, Mr Cameron acknowledged military
action would be necessary to drive IS out of its territory.

"We need to crush ISIL in Iraq and Syria," he told MPs.

"But military action alone will not be enough. We have to go after terrorist
finance and we have to go after the terrorist narrative."

The terrorist group posed an "existential threat" to the Britain and the West,
the Prime Minister said.

Earlier, Mr Cameron criticised the BBC for referring to the terrorists by the
name "Islamic State".

He told Radio 4's Today programme: "It is not an Islamic state. It is an
appalling barbarous regime that is a perversion of the religion." Last night US
President Barack Obama called Mr Cameron to express his condolences over the
attack.

Visiting the site of the beach massacre in Tunisia, Home Secretary Theresa May
yesterday praised the British heroes and hotel staff who saved others.

Mrs May hailed acts of "great bravery" in the face of "a despicable act of
cruelty".

Dressed in black, she laid flowers during a memorial at the Riu Imperial Marhaba
Hotel.

OPINION: PAGE 12 'Tunisians did everything they could to help us' A TEENAGER and
her mother who suffered shrapnel wounds to their limbs praised local Tunisians
who hid them from ISIL terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui and got them to safety.

Student Naomi Wearing, 18, and her mother Carol Wearing, 46, were injured when
the mass murderer threw a grenade as they fled the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba.

The pair, from Darwen, Lancs, had run back into the hotel just before Rezgui
arrived in the foyer carrying a gun and explosives.

Brave Tunisian staff locked them in a room but then told them to run for their
lives when they feared he would blow the door off. As they ran to the door he
threw the grenade.

A local taxi driver stopped and took off his shirt and wrapped it around Carol's
injured leg before carrying her to a nearby disco where an ambulance took her to
hospital.

Home Naomi was taken to a clinic with two other girls. The mother and daughter
were later reunited on a specially chartered flight home and are now being
treated at Royal Blackburn Hospital.

Carol, a Crown Paints worker, said yesterday she hoped to one day thank the man
who carried her to safety, as well as the manager at the disco, who offered to
drive her to hospital.

"The Tunisians did everything they could. They were brilliant," she said.

She added: "Me and Naomi went away, just the two of us. It was a treat before
she goes to university. We feel lucky to be alive. You just can't believe it can
happen to you."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron leaving to address MPsRezgui slaughtered tourists at
resortNaomi and Carol, left, who were injured, and, above, a guard at Tunisian
resort yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Mock terror attack to be staged in London today

LENGTH: 674  words


A MOCK terrorist firearms attack is being staged in London today to test the
emergency services' ability to respond to a Tunisian-style mass shooting.

The multi-agency counter-terrorism "major live play exercise" - which will end
tomorrow afternoon - has been in the planning since January and will involve a
number of locations, the Metropolitan Police said.

The Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the hostage-taking siege in Sydney had an
"influence" on the test, according to deputy assistant commissioner and director
of the exercise Maxine de Brunner.

She said it was the Met's view that it had never before put together an exercise
of this magnitude and said it would be "very realistic".

She also said the Mumbai attacks of 2008 "and other attacks around the world"
were thought through in the planning of the exercise.

But the Met said the test was in no way connected or prompted by the massacre in
Tunisia last week and the essential theme of it was agreed before January.

Ms de Brunner said: "Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside
our colleagues, have to deal with the tragic events of July 2005.

"Given the changing nature of the very real terrorism threat and events around
the world - Paris and Australia - we need to constantly adapt our plans and
prepare for new and emerging threats.

"What is vitally important to all the agencies involved who routinely work
together, and to Londoners, is that when the very worst happens we are prepared
to be the very best and we can understand how each other work and how we'll all
operate together."

She added: "Exercising is a vital part of our preparedness to respond to any
major incident in London. It helps us to ensure that we and all our partners are
(as) ready as we can be for whatever might happen."

Exercise at disused Tube station

The exercise will see a test of the emergency service response to an attack at
the disused Tube station at Aldwych.

It is developed by the Home Office and the Met and is part of a Home Office
national counter-terrorism rolling exercise programme across the country.

Over the course of two days, the Met, emergency services, the Government and key
London agencies will be "put through our paces to test our response to a major
incident", Ms de Brunner said.

"What is particularly significant about this exercise is that throughout it
there will be significant live play elements. That means us and our colleagues
actually responding to an incident on the ground," she said.

"So the exercise scenario is designed to test command and control and
co-ordination of a multi-site marauding terrorist attack."

The first responders will be challenged by mounting an operation to contain the
area, evacuate the public, rescue and treat the wounded, manage a crime scene,
and catch the people responsible.

Within the Met "every level" of the response will be tested from the first
responders to the decision makers.

How agencies co-ordinate their response throughout the incident will be explored
as well as how they link to government crisis decision making.

More than a thousand officers from the Met will participate, but policing levels
across London will remain unaffected by the exercise.

"This exercise is focussed in the extreme end of what may happen," Ms de Brunner
said, adding that it was not taking place in response to any specific
intelligence.

She said some of the activity would be "highly visible and audible" to the
public, as elements would be "noisy".

The vast majority of police officers involved have no idea about the venues or
what is planned, and know only that they are taking part in an exercise.

Only around 12 people will know the fine details of the exercise in advance.

The aim is to get the "maximum learning" from it and there will be a full
debrief.

Among those taking part are all of London's emergency services, Greater London
Authority, Transport for London, Home Office, Cabinet Office, Ministry of
Defence, the Department of Health and NHS England.

Surrey Street will be shut for the day in order to minimise disruption.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Body of Tunisia terror attack victim Trudy Jones to be flown back this week

BYLINE: Sophie Brownson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


HEARTFELT tributes continue to pour in for Tunisia shooting victim Trudy Jones
described as a "lovely lady."

And flowers were left outside the Highfields Nursing Home where the mother of
four and grandmother worked as an activities co-ordinator.

Trudy Jones, 51, was among those murdered while on a holiday at a beach resort
in Sousse.

Ms Jones had been due to fly on Monday and was due to beack in work on Tuesday
after her week-long break.

But she never made it home from the trip she was said to have planned for
months, after a maniac gunman unleashed a horrifying terror attack on the
beach-side resort.

Blackwood Labour Cllr Nigel Dix said the attack has been a shock to everyone in
the community.

"I don't think anybody will accept the circumstances around it," he said.

"There is no justification for this kind of action.

"It is devastating for the family and my heart goes out to them.

"It has been a huge shock to think terrorism can affect your community
[especially] in Wales when we think we are far away.

"I am looking to support the community and the family as much as I can, but at
this time I think they are going to be overwhelmed by grief.

"[Ms Jones] seemed such a hard working and dedicated person."

Marie Higgins, a former care worker at Highfields Nursing Home knew Ms Jones
from working together around five years ago when Ms Jones worked in the laundry.

"She was a lovely lady," she said.

"She was always made everybody laugh.

"She was always smiling, very friendly and used to like singing and dancing."

Meanwhile the government has said Britons killed by the gunman in last week's
beach attack will start being repatriated on Wednesday.

Twenty-one Britons have been identified as victims, with nine more believed to
among the dead.

The repatriation process is expected to take several days and will be followed
by a joint inquest into the deaths of all the British victims which will be
opened in London.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 1:10 PM GMT

Operation Strong Tower: Heavily armed SAS troops and police stage mock terror
attack on the streets of London

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 870 words


More than 1,000 police and soldiers - including SAS troops - staged a mass
exercise today to test their ability to respond to a Tunisian-style gun attack
on London.

Elite police firearms units, the military and Government officials responded to
a series of rolling mock attacks on locations across the capital.

The exercise - codenamed Strong Tower - came as tributes were paid to a Londoner
killed in the Tunisia beach massacre.

Chris Dyer, 35, who was on holiday with his wife of two years Gina Van Dort, 32,
when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui unleashed a deadly machine gun assault on
sunbathers.

Today friends and neighbours of Mr Dyer today paid tribute to the electrical
engineer, who was originally from Ruislip, west London.

Mr Dyer's wife, who refused to let go of his body despite being seriously
injured, was one of four Britons airlifted to the UK yesterday by the RAF.

A friend said: "They are really lovely people we are in total shock. Chris and
Gina knew everyone around here and we are all Facebook friends it is a tragedy.
They were always a very close, hardworking couple it seemed. We would not be
surprised that she did not want to let him go and clung to him after he was
shot."

The couple, who lived in Watford, had been married for two years and were in the
second week of their holiday.

Dr Hajer Kraiem, one of the first doctors on the scene, told how the injured
woman at first refused to be parted from her husband.

She said: "When we tried to bring her to the ambulance she held tighter.

"She was hugging her husband. She had major trauma. She was conscious but she
couldn't speak. She's lucky to be alive."

Mrs Van Dort, who needs reconstructive surgery, lost an eye after a bullet
passed through her chin and out of her face.

There were mounting fears today for another London couple feared to be among the
victims.

The grandchildren of John and Janet Stocker, from Morden, had launched a Twitter
campaign to find the pair.

The couple, aged 74 and 63, have not been heard of since the atrocity last
Friday and family members have since flown to Tunisia in a grim search for the
truth.

The police exercise in London was taking place today around the disused Aldwych
Tube station and the public was advised that any gunshots or explosions heard in
the area were not real.

Just before 11am, piercingly loud, repetitive bangs from blasts and automatic
guns could be heard.

Security officials fear a "marauding" terror attack involving multiple gunmen is
the most likely threat faced by Londoners.

Scotland Yard has given extra training to front line armed response officers and
a specialist counter terror firearms unit is trained to respond to such an
incident.

Today Scotland Yard chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said: "The reason we have
exercises like today is because, obviously, we are concerned there are people
planning terrorist events. We intend first of all to stop them from getting to
attack. But should we not stop the terrorists in their planning, it's essential
we disrupt them in any of the attacks that may take place.

"With events like today we are committing around 1,000 people to exercise our
plans and make sure that should the worst happen we are ready. And we will be."

Today's exercise draws on tactics seen in the terror attack on Mumbai in 2008,
the stabbing of two police officers in Australia last year and the Charlie Hebdo
attacks in Paris in January

David Cameron has announce a minute's silence on Friday in memory of the 38 who
died when the 23-year-old gunman opened fire in the tourist resort of Sousse.

As the Tunisian authorities arrested 10 people in connection with the attack,
some of the survivors claimed there was more than one gunman.

Three Britons have spoken of how they saw a second gunman armed with an assault
rifle but dressed differently from Rezgui.

Related stories

Meanwhile possible connections to extremism in the UK have emerged.

The gunman was linked to Saifallah Ben Hassine, a fanatic who was based in
London for at least three years and a disciple of the cleric Abu Qatada, the
Daily Mail reported today.

Today it also emerged how Rezgui was finally shot dead by two harbour guards who
had raced to the beach in a launch from the local port.

They followed the gunman as he walked up a side street. In testimony quoted by
the Telegraph one of the guards said : "He seemed to be under the effects of
drugs. He was not afraid to die.

"There was a very big security failure because he was killing for a long time."

The guard, who did not want to be named, said Rezgui was still carrying an
unused grenade and two ammunition clips for his Kalashnikov.

The Tunisian authorities today announced that a thousand armed police officers
would be deployed to patrol the country's beaches.

The announcement came after Home Secretary Theresa May visited the scene of the
slaughter yesterday.

The four survivors airlifted to Britain by the RAF yesterday also included
Allison Heathcote, 48, who is in an induced coma after also being shot in the
arm and stomach.

She had been on holiday with her husband Philip, 53, to celebrate their 30th
wedding anniversary today. He is missing, believed dead.

Downing Street said all British nationals injured would be returned within the
next 24 hours.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 7:21 AM GMT

Military and police in biggest ever London training exercise to prepare for
terror attack

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 773 words


The biggest anti-terrorism exercise ever staged in London was underway today as
1,000 police responded to a "marauding" attack on the capital.

Emergency services, the military and Government were being tested on their
ability to handle a devastating terror assault on a number of key sites.

The exercise was planned several months before last Friday's beach attack on
holidaymakers in Tunisia and the beheading in France but officials say they hope
to learn vital lessons to improve their response to what is now their
most-feared type of assault.

The Met's deputy assistant commissioner Maxine de Brunner said the two-day "live
play" exercise, codenamed Strong Towers, was "focused on the extreme end of what
may happen".

It is likely to draw upon tactics seen in the terror attack on Mumbai in 2008,
the stabbing of two police officers in Australia last year and the Charlie Hebdo
attacks in Paris in January.

Ms de Brunner said: "When the very worst happens, we are prepared to be the very
best. [It's based on] what we think a terrorist could throw at us."

Speaking in advance, she insisted the mock attack bore no relation to any
current threat. The threat to the UK from international terrorism remains
unchanged at "severe".

Ms de Brunner said: "It's not being created out of response to any specific
intelligence. We have been planning this since January. It's completely
unconnected with anything that might be going on at the moment.

Related stories

"It will be hugely challenging for officers and partners. They won't have seen
anything like this."

One of the first incidents involved officers, including armed response units and
others trained to carry firearms, being called to the disused Aldwych Tube
station.

Full details of the exercise, which will last until tomorrow afternoon, have
been kept under wraps to make it as realistic as possible for officers on the
ground.

The public was advised that any gun-shots and explosions they heard around
Aldwych were not real. Surrey Street, alongside King's College London, was
cordoned off.

It is the first such event since 2012, when the capital's ability to respond to
a chemical attack was tested. The Government requires the Met to test its
capability on a regular basis to respond to the "changing nature of terrorism".

The Home Office-funded "major live play" is part of its national
counter-terrorism programme and also involved London Ambulance, London Fire
Brigade and Ministry of Defence staff, British Transport Police, City of London
police, City Hall and Transport for London.

The first officers dispatched to Aldwych were required to contain the area,
evacuate the public, maintain a crime scene and catch the perpetrators. Senior
decision-makers in the Met control room were being tested on how they deployed
officers in response to a "fast-paced" situation on the ground.

Normal policing levels across London were "unaffected" by the exercise. The
Cabinet's Cobra committee was meeting as part of the exercise and Met
commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe was due to brief senior colleagues.

Referring to "new and emerging threats" faced by the capital, Ms de Brunner said
the exercise would be different to previous terror attacks such as 7/7 attacks
on the Tube and bus network and the knife attack on soldier Lee Rigby in
Woolwich.

She said: "I think it's going to be very realistic. I think it will be a real
challenge for officers and partner agencies. We need to challenge ourselves to
make sure we are fit for purpose.

"Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside our colleagues, have
to deal with the tragic events of July 2005. Given the changing nature of the
very real terrorism threat and events around the world, Paris and Australia, we
need to constantly adapt our plans and prepare for new and emerging threats.

"What is vitally important to all the agencies involved, who routinely work
together, and to Londoners, is that when the very worst happens, we are prepared
to be the very best, and we can understand how each other works and we can
operate together."

Previous mock incidents had led to improvements such as officers now being able
to send photographs of the scene back to the control room more effectively.

Ms de Brunner said that it was coincidental that it was being held near the 10th
anniversary of 7/7. The Met was "in a much better place" than a decade ago to
respond to another atrocity, due to better working between partners, she said.

"Testing is a really positive act to make sure we are best we can be, and make
sure we are ready. The fact it's near the 7/7 anniversary is very poignant, and
very important that we recognise that."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 10:47 PM GMT

Lombardy mayor calls for radical mosques across Italy to be shut down;
Italy should follow the example of Tunisia who in the aftermath of the Sousse
terror attack which killed 39 people said it would close dozens of mosques
accused of extremist preaching

BYLINE: By Alice Philipson Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


The governor of Lombardy has called for radical mosques to be closed down in
Italy in the wake of the Tunisia terror attack .

Roberto Maroni, who leads Italy's most economically important region, said that
the country should follow the example of Tunisia, which is to close dozens of
mosques accused of extremist preaching as part of a security crack down
following last week's attack in Sousse .

· Islamist terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, in pictures

Mr Maroni said the security of Italy's citizens should be the country's primary
concern.

"If Tunisia has closed some mosques, it means that it is a road that we have to
consider and also follow," said Mr Maroni, who is a member of Italy's Right-wing
Northern League party. "So I hope that the interior ministry and the government
do not bow to ideologies of any kind, and focus instead on the safety of
citizens and eventually, if necessary, on the closing of the mosques."

Habib Essid, Tunisia's prime minister, said political parties with radical
beliefs, as well as those with suspicious funding, would be closed down. Around
80 mosques known for extremist preaching will also be shut.

Simona Bordonali, head of security and immigration in Lombardy, echoed Mr
Maroni's wish to see similar mosques closed in Italy.

"I hope that we don't have to witness a terrorist attack in Italy before
realising that we have to tackle radical Islam," she said.

"Tunisia, after the shocking attack in recent days, has decided to close 80
mosques which are known to incite violence and religious hatred. I hope that the
Italian government takes similar preventive measures and acts to limit the
dangers. "

However, there are fears that recent terrorist attacks in Europe and north
Africa have allowed anti-Islamic racism to spread in Italy. In January, a
regional government commission in the northern Lombardy region approved a bill
that placed limits on the opening of new, non-Catholic places of worship.

The bill also stipulated that security cameras should be installed in places of
worship, sparking opposition from the centre-Left and from civil liberties
advocates.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 3:28 PM GMT

Mapped: Terror threat around the world;
See where around the world the Foreign Office believes a terror attack is most
likely to happen

BYLINE: By Telegraph Travel

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


If you are reading this in a Telegraph app tap here to see the map

The theat of terrorism is rated "high" in more than 30 countries around the
world, according to the Foreign Office, with summer holiday favourites such as
Spain and France given the same rating as Libya, Pakistan and Somalia.

Other popular travel destinations to receive the Foreign Office's highest terror
threat level include Turkey, Egypt, Thailand, Australia and Belgium.

Tunisia, where at least 30 Britons were killed in last Friday's massacre, is
also given the top rating, as are Indonesia, Russia, Myanmar, Kenya, the
Philippines and Colombia.

Less surprising is the inclusion of much of the Middle East, including Iraq,
Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Afghanistan.

· Can I cancel my trip to Tunisia?

The Foreign Office uses four ratings when judging the threat of a terrorist
attack in its travel advice: high, general, underlying and low.

Countries where the terror threat is low include Iceland, Bolivia, Ecuador,
Poland, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary, Vietnam and Japan.

The UK terror threat level, assessed by MI5, is more fluid, with five categories
ranging from "low" to "critical". The UK terror threat level is currently
"severe", the second highest rating.

Telegraph Travel has also produced this map, outlining where the Foreign Office
says is safe to travel this summer - and where is not.

Research by Tom Mulvihill and Oliver Smith

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:57 PM GMT

Tunisia: travel advice for tourists after terrorist shooting in Sousse;
Do the latest terrorist attacks in Tunisia mean tourists can change or cancel
their plans for travel to resorts in the country?

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 857 words

Can I cancel my holiday to Tunisia?

Despite last week's horrific attacks, tour operators and airlines are under no
obligation to provide a refund should you decide not to travel to Tunisia.

"In theory, unless the Foreign Office advises against travel to Tunisia, or the
areas that holidaymakers are travelling to, those who are due to depart for the
resorts - including Sousse, where the shootings took place - have no option but
to go or lose their money," Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel's consumer advice
expert, said. "Tour operators are entitled to uphold their booking conditions
and cite Foreign Office advice that the resorts are safe.

"Technically, when you book a package holiday - covered via the Civil Aviation
Authority's ATOL (Air Travel Organisers' Licensing) protection scheme - you are
bound by the booking conditions. For cancellations, these normally require you
to forfeit your deposit - or the full balance, if you have already paid it - if
you cancel."

However, all those we spoke to are giving customers due to travel soon the
chance to switch to an alternative destination.

· Tunisia attack - latest

Which tour operators are allowing travellers to cancel?

Abta, the Association of British Travel Agents, said: "Many of our members who
have operations in Tunisia are offering customers the option to amend or cancel
their bookings. Customers due to travel are advised to contact their tour
operator for their options."

Thomson and First Choice has cancelled all holidays to Tunisia up to and
including July 9, and are scheduling extra flights to Cape Verde, Rhodes and
Gran Canaria for customers wishing to change their holidays. It added on Monday
that customers planning to travel to Tunisia at any time until the end of the
summer season (October 31) will be able to amend their holidays free of charge
to any of their destinations.

Thomas Cook customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including July 12 can
cancel or amend their holiday free of charge. Those travelling from July 13
onwards can amend their bookings to free of charge for holidays departing up to
and including October 31.

Jet2, together with Jet2 Holidays, has cancelled all flights and holidays to
Tunisia up to and including July 5. Jet2holidays customers will be offered a
full refund or the option to change their booking without an amendment fee.
Jet2.com customers will be given a full refund. In addition, those customers
with Jet2holidays booked up to and including October 31 will also be allowed to
change their booking without an amendment fee.

easyJet passengers who are booked to travel to Monastir within the next 14 days
(until July 13) are allowed a free flight transfer on any date and on any route,
or alternatively a flight voucher to the value of their unused flight sectors.
Passengers wishing to do so are advised to call easyJet Customer Services team.

Customers who booked through Monarch or Cosmos Holidays, who are due to travel
in the next 21 days, "on a rolling basis", can "choose not to travel and will be
offered the choice of a change of date or destination". Customers affected
should call its customer service teams on 0333 003 0700 for Monarch, or 0844 573
4952 for Cosmos.

· Tunisia: lessons weren't learnt after Bardo shooting

What if I'm visiting Tunisia later this summer?

While tour operators are allowing those about to travel the chance to cancel or
rearrange their trip, normal booking conditions apply for most due to travel at
the height of summer (Thomson/First Choice customers excluded).

"If you have booked a Tunisian holiday several months ahead and have already
paid a deposit, you will probably have to hold tight and see if the situation
settles down, or if the Foreign Office changes its advice," said Nick Trend. "If
the Foreign Office does strengthen its warnings and advises against travel to
certain resorts prior to the holiday's start, travellers should get a full
refund."

What about travel insurance?

Travel insurance will cover the costs of cancellation for specific reasons, such
as ill health, but not if you are simply nervous about travelling.

Advice to those who do travel

Travel advice for Britons on the Foreign Office website warns: "Further
terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including in tourist resorts, are possible,
including by individuals who are unknown to the authorities and whose actions
are inspired by terrorist groups via social media. You should be especially
vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security authorities and
your tour operator.

"If you are in the area you should keep in touch with your tour operator and
follow any advice from Tunisian security authorities." It has opened a hotline
for British nationals currently in Tunisia on +44 207 008 0000.

424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in 2014. Terrorist attacks have
increased in the country since 2013. In October 2013, there were failed attacks
at a hotel in Sousse and the Bourguiba Museum in Monastir. Since then, members
of the Tunisian security forces have been targeted in terrorist-related
incidents at various locations, mainly near border areas, including in the
Chaambi Mountains.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 2:29 PM GMT

Operation Strong Tower, police prepare for terror attack, in pictures;
Major police exercise - named Operation Strong Tower - will test the response to
terrorists armed with firearms

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 18 words


Major police exercise - named Operation Strong Tower - will test the response to
terrorists armed with firearms

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 1:22 PM GMT

Major counter-terrorism exercise drill carried out in London;
The emergency services take part in a counter-terrorism drill in central London
following the Tunisian terror attack

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and agencies, video source APTN

LENGTH: 401 words


A major counter-terrorism exercise has been carried out in London to ensure
emergency services are ready "should the worst happen", Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan Howe has said.

A mock terrorist firearms attack was staged to test the response to a
Tunisian-style mass shooting.

Officers, emergency services, soldiers and intelligence officials took part in
the operation.

Sir Bernard said: "With events like today we are committing around 1,000 people
to exercise our plans and make sure that should the worst happen we are ready.
And we will be."

He said the rate of arrests for terror offences has increased in the last year.

"It is clear during that time that we've disrupted some very serious plots and
some of those cases are going to the courts. The reason we have exercises like
today is because, obviously, we are concerned there are people planning
terrorist events.

"We intend first of all to stop them from getting to attack. But should we not
stop the terrorists in their planning, it's essential we disrupt them in any of
the attacks that may take place.

"With events like today we are committing around 1,000 people to exercise our
plans and make sure that should the worst happen we are ready. And we will be."

Preparations for the exercise began around six months ago and events such as the
Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris and the hostage siege in Sydney influenced the
test.

The Mumbai attack in 2008 also featured in the planning.

Scotland Yard stressed the test was in no way connected or prompted by the
massacre in Tunisia last week.

Sir Bernard said: "Today's exercise will test our people in how to respond to a
terrorist threat and we will learn from the mistakes that we are bound to make
today.

"It's best we make them today in an environment where we don't have terrorists,
than make those mistakes when we do."

The two-day exercise will see a test of the emergency service response to an
attack at the disused Tube station at Aldwych.

The vast majority of police officers involved have no idea about the venues or
what is planned. Only around 12 people knew specific details of in advance.

Among those taking part are all of  London's emergency services, Greater London
Authority, Transport for London, Home Office, Cabinet Office, Ministry of
Defence, the Department of Health and NHS England.

Surrey Street will be shut for the day in order to minimise disruption.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:03 PM GMT

Mapped: Terror threat around the world;
See where around the world the Foreign Office believes a terror attack is most
likely to happen

BYLINE: By Telegraph Travel

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


The theat of terrorism is rated "high" in more than 30 countries around the
world, according to the Foreign Office, with summer holiday favourites such as
Spain and France given the same rating as Libya, Pakistan and Somalia.

Other popular travel destinations to receive the Foreign Office's highest terror
threat level include Turkey, Egypt, Thailand, Australia and Belgium.

Tunisia, where at least 30 Britons were killed in last Friday's massacre, is
also given the top rating, as are Indonesia, Russia, Myanmar, Kenya, the
Philippines and Colombia.

Less surprising is the inclusion of much of the Middle East, including Iraq,
Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Afghanistan.

· Can I cancel my trip to Tunisia?

The Foreign Office uses four ratings when judging the threat of a terrorist
attack in its travel advice: high, general, underlying and low.

Countries where the terror threat is low include Iceland, Bolivia, Ecuador,
Poland, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary, Vietnam and Japan.

The UK terror threat level, assessed by MI5, is more fluid, with five categories
ranging from "low" to "critical". The UK terror threat level is currently
"severe", the second highest rating.

Telegraph Travel has also produced this map, outlining where the Foreign Office
says is safe to travel this summer - and where is not.

Research by Tom Mulvihill and Oliver Smith

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 11:55 AM GMT

Met carry out major anti-terror exercise across London;
Exercise Strong Tower will involve 1,000 police officers and is intended to test
the Metropolitan Police's ability to cope with a 'marauding terror attack' on
the capital

BYLINE: By Martin Evans Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 628 words


The Metropolitan Police will conduct its largest ever exercise to prepare for a
"marauding terrorist attack" on the streets of London.

The operation, which will involve more than 1,000 officers, many of them armed,
will test how Scotland Yard and the other emergency services would respond in
the face of a jihadist assault on sites across the capital.

Exercise Strong Tower has been planned since January and is not taking place in
response to last week's terrorist attacks.

But the timing, coming just days before the 10th anniversary of the July 7
attacks, is intended to reassure the public that the Met is well prepared to
respond to any major incident in London.

· London 2012 Olympics: pre-Games anti-terror drill taking place on Underground
to test security in case of attack

The exercise will take place at different sites across the capital including at
the disused underground station at Aldwych close to the Strand.

Deputy Assistant Police Commissioner Maxine de Brunner said: "This exercise is
focused in the extreme end of what might happen.

"I would just like to stress to you all, it is not being carried out in response
to any specific intelligence.

"We have been planning this since January so it is completely not related to
anything that may be going on at this time.

"We have been planning this for many months and as it is a live play exercise
some of our activity will be highly visible and audible to the public."

She went on: "We don't want the public to be concerned about what we are doing.
Elements of it will be noisy and it will be visible in places and really
important we get a message out of reassurance.

"Officers will have to respond on how they find it on the day. They don't know
what will be happening and we will be testing things which we haven't tested
before.

"We want to test ourselves. This isn't about how to look good or do well. I
expect there will be a lot for us to learn from this. We will test our firearms
capability across a range of our units.

"Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside out colleagues have
to deal with the tragic events of July 2005.

"From our point of view of the Met police we haven't put together an exercise of
this magnitude before. It is the largest exercise in London that we have
planned.

"We want to see and ensure that our capacity and skills can match whatever we
think a terrorist group may do."

She added: "Exercising is a vital part of our preparedness to respond to any
major incident in London. It helps us to ensure that we and all our partners are
ready as we can before whatever might happen.

"We put a huge amount of effort into our planning and the exercise it to test
out assumptions and how a large number of agencies all work together."

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said: "Over
the last year the rate of arrests has increased. We are arresting about one
person a day for terrorist offences.

"It is clear during that time that we've disrupted some very serious plots and
some of those cases are going to the courts. The reason we have exercises like
today is because, obviously, we are concerned there are people planning
terrorist events.

"We intend first of all to stop them from getting to attack. But should we not
stop the terrorists in their planning, it's essential we disrupt them in any of
the attacks that may take place.

"With events like today we are committing around 1,000 people to exercise our
plans and make sure that should the worst happen we are ready. And we will be."

The exercise will take place across multiple sites in the capital involving
London's emergency services and transport, the Government, hospitals and the
Ministry of Defence.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 8:02 AM GMT

UK terror attack feared amid warnings gangs are smuggling in submachine guns;
Organised crime syndicates are smuggling Skorpion submachine guns into Britain
which could then fall into the hands of jihadists

BYLINE: By Martin Evans Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


· Tunisia attack - latest updates

Fears of a Tunisian style attack  on the streets of Britain have been raised
after it emerged that criminal gangs have been smuggling powerful submachine
guns into the country.

Security chiefs are concerned that the weapons, capable of firing 1,000 rounds a
minute, could fall into the hands of would be jihadists.

A report from the National Crime Agency (NCA) published last week into serious
and organised crime in the UK, found evidence of an "increased threat" of Czech
made Skorpion submachine guns being imported into the UK by street gangs in
London and the south east.

The fear is that these weapons could then find their way into the hands of
extremists, intent on carrying out a terror attack.

The report also warned that illegally held weapons and ammunition, often hoarded
by collectors, could find their way into the hands of criminal organisations,
which might then pass them on to jihadists.

Counter terror chiefs have long been concerned over the crossover between
ruthless criminal gangs and extremists.

Gun attacks similar to that carried out in Tunisia and the 2008 Mumbai atrocity,
are notoriously difficult for the authorities to derail because of the lack of
planning needed to execute.

· How the Mumbai terror attacks changed British anti-terror tactics

· al-Qaeda plotting attack on Britain

Scotland Yard is stepping up visible and covert policing at significant public
events such as the Wimbledon tennis championships and planned services to mark
the tenth anniversary of the July 7 attacks in London.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, National Police Chiefs' Council lead for
counter terrorism, said the police response to the atrocity in Tunisia was
likely to be one of the largest counter terrorism deployments seen since the
bomb attacks on the capital in 2005.

He said: "The operation currently involves over 600 officers and staff and is
being coordinated from the National Counter Terrorism Policing HQ at New
Scotland Yard.

"Because of the scale of the attack, the numbers of fatalities and the
international nature of it, it is likely that several hundred counter-terrorism
and other police officers and staff will be working on this case for some time.

"Since Friday evening, over 380 counter terrorism and local officers have been
at British airports to meet and support travellers returning from Tunisia to
help identify potential witnesses.

"On Saturday, officers met 27 flights and there will be similar levels of
activity today, including taking detailed statements from many witnesses to
support the UK colonial process.

"Officers will remain at the airports to meet more returning citizens as and
when they come home.

"We have already deployed a team of 16 officers to Tunisia, including senior
detectives and specialist forensic officers from New Scotland Yard's Counter
Terrorism Command, as well as family liaison officers.

He added: "In Britain, large numbers of officers are supporting our
international response to the attack. This includes 60 family liaison officers
who are with relatives in the UK of those killed and injured. These highly
experienced FLOs will be supporting victims and their families as part of the
police investigation."

Scotland Yard is also appealing for anyone who was in Sousse, Tunisia at the
time of the attacks to come forward as they may have information that could help
with the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Met carry out major anti-terror exercise across London;
Exercise Strong Tower will involve 1,000 police officers and is intended to test
the Metropolitan Police's ability to cope with a 'marauding terror attack' on
the capital

BYLINE: By Martin Evans Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words


The Metropolitan Police will conduct its largest ever exercise to prepare for a
"marauding terrorist attack" on the streets of London.

The operation, which will involve more than 1,000 officers, many of them armed,
will test how Scotland Yard and the other emergency services would respond in
the face of a jihadist assault on sites across the capital.

Exercise Strong Tower has been planned since January and is not taking place in
response to last week's terrorist attacks.

But the timing, coming just days before the 10th anniversary of the July 7
attacks, is intended to reassure the public that the Met is well prepared to
respond to any major incident in London.

· London 2012 Olympics: pre-Games anti-terror drill taking place on Underground
to test security in case of attack

The exercise will take place at different sites across the capital including at
the disused underground station at Aldwych close to the Strand.

Deputy Assistant Police Commissioner Maxine de Brunner said: "This exercise is
focused in the extreme end of what might happen.

"I would just like to stress to you all, it is not being carried out in response
to any specific intelligence.

"We have been planning this since January so it is completely not related to
anything that may be going on at this time.

"We have been planning this for many months and as it is a live play exercise
some of our activity will be highly visible and audible to the public."

She went on: "We don't want the public to be concerned about what we are doing.
Elements of it will be noisy and it will be visible in places and really
important we get a message out of reassurance.

"Officers will have to respond on how they find it on the day. They don't know
what will be happening and we will be testing things which we haven't tested
before.

"We want to test ourselves. This isn't about how to look good or do well. I
expect there will be a lot for us to learn from this. We will test our firearms
capability across a range of our units.

"Sadly London is no stranger to terrorism and we, alongside out colleagues have
to deal with the tragic events of July 2005.

"From our point of view of the Met police we haven't put together an exercise of
this magnitude before. It is the largest exercise in London that we have
planned.

"We want to see and ensure that our capacity and skills can match whatever we
think a terrorist group may do."

She added: "Exercising is a vital part of our preparedness to respond to any
major incident in London. It helps us to ensure that we and all our partners are
ready as we can before whatever might happen.

"We put a huge amount of effort into our planning and the exercise it to test
out assumptions and how a large number of agencies all work together."

The exercise will take place across multiple sites in the capital involving
London's emergency services and transport, the Government, hospitals and the
Ministry of Defence.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 3:28 PM GMT

Tunisia police hunt two terror attack accomplices

BYLINE: Jenny Booth

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 942 words


Police in Tunisia are hunting two men in connection with Friday's terrorist
attack in which 38 tourists were shot dead.

At least 21 British holidaymakers died when Seifeddine Rezgui, a Tunisian
aviation student, opened fire with an automatic rifle at the beach resort of
Sousse, but the British death toll is thought to be 30.

Tunisian officials say that Rezgui, 23, carried out the attack alone but must
have had help, including financial support and weapons training. Seven people
have been arrested so far on suspicion of involvement.

A state security source said today that Rezgui appeared to have gone abroad to
be trained.

"Investigations show Saif Rezgui was in contact with terrorists in Libya and
that he is likely to have trained in a Libyan camp," he said.

Those under arrest include one of Rezgui's flatmates in his shared student flat
in the university town of Kairouan, an hour's drive from Sousse.

The wanted men are Rafik al Tayari, 24, a business co-ordinator from a suburb of
Tunis, and Mohammed al Charadi, 23, a student from the city of Bizerte.

Both cities have areas which are hotbeds of recruitment for Islamist extremism,
and more than 3,000 Tunisians are said to be in Syria fighting with Isis, the
so-called Islamic State.

Al Tayari and al Charadi's connections with Rezgui, who was shot dead by police
at the scene of the attack, have not been revealed by the authorities.

Rezgui was reported to have had links to extremist preachers in the UK,
including Saifallah Ben Hassine, who lived in London for three years and was a
disciple of Abu Qatada, the radical al-Qaeda cleric.

Several British survivors have questioned the official version of events that
Rezgui was the only gunman.

Michael Perry, a retired British police superintendent from Leicestershire, who
narrowly escaped being shot, said that he and other witnesses saw a second
gunman, bare-chested and wearing red shorts, unlike Rezgui, who wore a black
T-shirt and black shorts.

Mr Perry said that later he saw the second gunman dead in the street. When he
asked a Tunisian police officer what had happened, the officer is said to have
replied: "We shot him."

So far 29 of the 38 dead have been identified, including 21 Britons, three Irish
citizens, one Belgian, two Germans, a Russian citizen and a Portuguese national.

A total of 39 people were wounded, some very seriously. Four of the most
severely injured Britons, including three widows whose husbands were killed in
the attack, were flown home to the UK last night on board an RAF Hercules
transporter plane, attended by military medevac teams experienced in bringing
home wounded servicepeople from Afghanistan.

The four included included Gina van Dort, 30, who was shot under the chin and
lost her left eye, who was found clinging to the body of her husband Chris Dyer;
Cheryl Mellor, 54, who was doing a crossword with her husband when the shooting
started; and Allison Heathcote, 48, who was in Tunisia with her husband Philip
to celebrate their 30th wedding anniversary today.

One critically ill patient was off-loaded at Birmingham airport and taken to the
Queen Elizabeth Hospital in the city. Professor Sir Keith Porter, who is leading
the team of specialists treating the patient said that they had suffered
life-threatening and life-changing injuries.

"We're now in the process of programming their onward care," said Sir Keith.

The other three patients were flown on to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, where
they were loaded into ambulances and dispersed for treatment at the John
Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, Derriford Hospital in Plymouth and St Mary's
Hospital in London, No 10 said.

The government has offered to arrange for the bodies of the British dead to be
flown by RAF plane to RAF Brize Norton before being transported on to their home
areas, Downing Street said. Families who opt to make their own arrangements may
make use of other airports.

The repatriation process is expected to start tomorrow and to last a number of
days.

A joint inquest covering all of the British victims is to be opened by the west
London coroner.

David Cameron said there will be a minute's silence across Britain in memory of
the victims at noon on Friday, exactly a week after the shootings took place.

The Tunisian president has said that 1,000 more armed tourism police will patrol
holiday areas, and that army reserves will also be brought in to protect the
country's £1.2 billion tourism industry, which makes up more than 7 per cent of
its GDP.

Beji Caid Essebsi told Europe 1 radio today that his country had been on the
point of implementing heightened security for the fasting month of Ramadan when
Friday morning's attack took place.

The likely cost of the massacre in lost tourism business has been estimated to
exceed £320 million, and today Tunisia's tourism minister announced tax reliefs
for hotels.

Libya, where Rezgui appears to have trained, is caught in a multi-sided battle
between two rival governments and their armed factions. The country has become a
haven for Isis supporters and other jihadist groups who have taken advantage of
the security chaos.

A major counter-terrorism exercise was meanwhile under way in London today, with
emergency services, soldiers and intelligence officials rehearsing dealing with
the nightmare scenario of multiple attacks in different locations by marauding
lone gunmen. The event had been planned for six months and is not a response to
the Tunisia attack.

Tomorrow the government's latest counter-extremism measures come into effect,
requiring schools and universities to take active steps to prevent
radicalisation taking place on their premises.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Cameron prepares to drain the terrorist swamp;
Last week's attacks have spurred the prime minister to embark on an ideological
struggle reminiscent of the Cold War

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 1071 words


The flag over No 10 flew at half-mast yesterday as a tribute to the British
tourists killed in last week's barbaric attack in Tunisia. In Sousse, Theresa
May added her own bouquet to the flowers piled up next to the sun loungers on
the idyllic white sands; in Westminster MPs observed a minute's silence. The
government has promised to do all it can to identify victims, repatriate bodies
and find out what happened.

For David Cameron, though, this is no longer just a question of sympathy for the
families or solidarity with the Tunisian government; it is also about the
survival of British values and traditions. There is an "existential threat" to
this country, he told the BBC. The Islamist extremists have "declared war on us"
and "they are attacking our way of life and what we stand for". The creation of
a "poisonous death cult" that is "the perversion of a great religion" is "the
struggle of our generation". It was a deliberate change of tone. Britain must be
"more intolerant of intolerance", he later told MPs. For Mr Cameron, this has
become a fight against an ideology - every bit as era-defining as the Cold War -
rather than just a question of security.

It is ten years, almost to the day, since 52 people were killed in the 7/7
attacks on London and in that decade the threat of Islamist terrorism has
intensified rather than receded. There may be no single evil genius behind this
wave of attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, but there is certainly a unifying
ideology. This is networked terrorism for the internet age, with bomb-making
manuals the latest addition to the sharing economy of goods and services offered
online. Even the lone wolves hunt in virtual packs.

Just as Tony Blair declared after 7/7 that the "rules of the game have changed"
so the iron has entered Mr Cameron's soul - but there is a critical difference.
Whereas the former Labour prime minister let rip with a raft of draconian new
laws designed to prevent future attacks, including the proposed 90-day detention
without trial of terrorist suspects, the current Conservative one is embarking
on a battle of ideas. With families travelling to Syria to join the Islamist
cause and teenagers being radicalised in their bedrooms between playing Candy
Crush and Minecraft, Mr Cameron is convinced that it is a propaganda war rather
than a military campaign that must be won. This is a fight not just to prevent
violent terrorism, but to confront the extremist ideology that leads to it - an
issue that has been the subject of fierce internal wrangling within Whitehall
for years because it is about challenging what people say and think rather than
what they actually do.

Michael Gove, the justice secretary, has characterised the disagreement over
tackling extremism within Government as a debate between those who want to "beat
back the crocodiles that come close to the boat" and those who think it is
necessary to "drain the swamp". There are parts of the Home Office, and the
security services, that have traditionally argued that the whole focus must be
on stopping violent terrorist attacks, while others, including Mr Gove, have
insisted that this is pointless without also tackling the non-violent but
extremist way of thinking within which terrorism can thrive. There is now no
doubt which side Mr Cameron is on: he wants all of Whitehall working together to
drain the swamp.

Allies insist he has not changed his mind - indeed, in a speech at the Munich
security conference four years ago he argued that the government had to confront
all extremists, "whether they are violent in their means or not". One cabinet
minister says: "He's always been of that view but the problem has been getting
different bits of government to agree. There was resistance from the Lib Dems,
and also Sayeeda Warsi [the former Tory chairman who argued for the government
to engage with a wide range of Muslim groups]. Now you have neither factor and
that leaves the prime minister in a stronger position."

With Mr Cameron promising a "full spectrum response", any crocodile-shooting
measures - such as the so-called "snooper's charter" - will be matched by a
concerted swamp-draining exercise. Extremists could be banned from appearing on
the airwaves and speaking at universities. Public bodies will refuse to engage
with any group that condones what the prime minister calls "the Islamist
extremist narrative".

Although the Home Office will co-ordinate the counter-extremism strategy, all
departments will be expected to contribute. The Department for Education is
today sending out guidance to all primary and secondary schools, making clear
that radicalisation is now a "safeguarding issue" that should be treated as
seriously as child exploitation. Pupils must be taught how to resist grooming by
Islamist extremists in the same way as they are advised how to avoid making
themselves vulnerable to paedophiles. This comes on top of the requirement to
promote "British values" in schools.

The Department for Justice is planning changes to prevent radicalisation in
prisons, with isolation for extremist preachers who might influence young men to
turn from crime to terrorism. Police chiefs will be told to ensure that Muslim
communities do not operate parallel justice systems, after warnings that a form
of Sharia is in place in some parts of the country. The Charity Commission is
going to be asked to investigate whether funding from extremists abroad is being
channelled into what one minister calls "vanilla" charities that are in fact a
front for organisations promoting a message of hate.

There are also calls within the cabinet for Mr Cameron to take a tougher line
with regimes that have themselves contributed to the rise of Islamism -
particularly Saudi Arabia, where the Supreme Court this month upheld the
sentence of 1,000 lashes and ten years imprisonment on the blogger Raif Badawi
who was arrested for "insulting Islam through electronic channels".

One minister draws a comparison with government initiatives that seek to improve
parenting skills. "In the same way as early intervention is what works to
improve children's life chances, so early intervention is essential to deal with
extremism," he says. "If you wait until extremism becomes violent it's too
late."

This is not a battle Mr Cameron has chosen to fight but it has chosen him. The
struggle of his generation is set to be a defining issue of his time as prime
minister.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron prepares to drain the terrorist swamp;
Last week's attacks have spurred the prime minister to embark on an ideological
struggle reminiscent of the Cold War

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1104 words


The flag over No 10 flew at half-mast yesterday as a tribute to the British
tourists killed in last week's barbaric attack in Tunisia. In Sousse, Theresa
May added her own bouquet to the flowers piled up next to the sun loungers on
the idyllic white sands; in Westminster MPs observed a minute's silence. The
government has promised to do all it can to identify victims, repatriate bodies
and find out what happened.

For David Cameron, though, this is no longer just a question of sympathy for the
families or solidarity with the Tunisian government; it is also about the
survival of British values and traditions. There is an "existential threat" to
this country, he told the BBC. The Islamist extremists have "declared war on us"
and "they are attacking our way of life and what we stand for". The creation of
a "poisonous death cult" that is "the perversion of a great religion" is "the
struggle of our generation". It was a deliberate change of tone. Britain must be
"more intolerant of intolerance", he later told MPs. For Mr Cameron, this has
become a fight against an ideology - every bit as era-defining as the Cold War -
rather than just a question of security.

It is ten years, almost to the day, since 52 people were killed in the 7/7
attacks on London and in that decade the threat of Islamist terrorism has
intensified rather than receded. There may be no single evil genius behind this
wave of attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, but there is certainly a unifying
ideology. This is networked terrorism for the internet age, with bomb-making
manuals the latest addition to the sharing economy of goods and services offered
online. Even the lone wolves hunt in virtual packs.

Just as Tony Blair declared after 7/7 that the "rules of the game have changed"
so the iron has entered Mr Cameron's soul - but there is a critical difference.
Whereas the former Labour prime minister let rip with a raft of draconian new
laws designed to prevent future attacks, including the proposed 90-day detention
without trial of terrorist suspects, the current Conservative one is embarking
on a battle of ideas. With families travelling to Syria to join the Islamist
cause and teenagers being radicalised in their bedrooms between playing Candy
Crush and Minecraft, Mr Cameron is convinced that it is a propaganda war rather
than a military campaign that must be won. This is a fight not just to prevent
violent terrorism, but to confront the extremist ideology that leads to it - an
issue that has been the subject of fierce internal wrangling within Whitehall
for years because it is about challenging what people say and think rather than
what they actually do.

Michael Gove, the justice secretary, has characterised the disagreement over
tackling extremism within Government as a debate between those who want to "beat
back the crocodiles that come close to the boat" and those who think it is
necessary to "drain the swamp". There are parts of the Home Office, and the
security services, that have traditionally argued that the whole focus must be
on stopping violent terrorist attacks, while others, including Mr Gove, have
insisted that this is pointless without also tackling the non-violent but
extremist way of thinking within which terrorism can thrive. There is now no
doubt which side Mr Cameron is on: he wants all of Whitehall working together to
drain the swamp.

Allies insist he has not changed his mind - indeed, in a speech at the Munich
security conference four years ago he argued that the government had to confront
all extremists, "whether they are violent in their means or not". One cabinet
minister says: "He's always been of that view but the problem has been getting
different bits of government to agree. There was resistance from the Lib Dems,
and also Sayeeda Warsi [the former Tory chairman who argued for the government
to engage with a wide range of Muslim groups]. Now you have neither factor and
that leaves the prime minister in a stronger position."

With Mr Cameron promising a "full spectrum response", any crocodile-shooting
measures - such as the so-called "snooper's charter" - will be matched by a
concerted swamp-draining exercise. Extremists could be banned from appearing on
the airwaves and speaking at universities. Public bodies will refuse to engage
with any group that condones what the prime minister calls "the Islamist
extremist narrative".

Although the Home Office will co-ordinate the counter-extremism strategy, all
departments will be expected to contribute. The Department for Education is
today The Sousse attack is symbolic of how extremists have "declared war on us"
sending out guidance to all primary and secondary schools, making clear that
radicalisation is now a "safeguarding issue" that should be treated as seriously
as child exploitation. Pupils must be taught how to resist grooming by Islamist
extremists in the same way as they are advised how to avoid making themselves
vulnerable to paedophiles. This comes on top of the requirement to promote
"British values" in schools.

The Department for Justice is planning changes to prevent radicalisation in
prisons, with isolation for extremist preachers who might influence young men to
turn from crime to terrorism. Police chiefs will be told to ensure that Muslim
communities do not operate parallel justice systems, after warnings that a form
of Sharia is in place in some parts of the country. The Charity Commission is
going to be asked to investigate whether funding from extremists abroad is being
channelled into what one minister calls "vanilla" charities that are in fact a
front for organisations promoting a message of hate.

There are also calls within the cabinet for Mr Cameron to take a tougher line
with regimes that have themselves contributed to the rise of Islamism -
particularly Saudi Arabia, where the Supreme Court this month upheld the
sentence of 1,000 lashes and ten years imprisonment on the blogger Raif Badawi
who was arrested for "insulting Islam through electronic channels".

One minister draws a comparison with government initiatives that seek to improve
parenting skills. "In the same way as early intervention is what works to
improve children's life chances, so early intervention is essential to deal with
extremism," he says. "If you wait until extremism becomes violent it's too
late."

This is not a battle Mr Cameron has chosen to fight but it has chosen him. The
struggle of his generation is set to be a defining issue of his time as prime
minister.

The PM is convinced it is a propaganda war not a military campaign

School pupils will be taught how to resist grooming by Islamists

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              West Sussex Gazette

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

I thought that was it': Horsham men witness terrorist attack on Tunisian beach

BYLINE: Harley Tamplin

LENGTH: 739  words


A Horsham man who witnessed the terrifying' moment a terrorist opened fire on
holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach said it was like being in a war zone'.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed at least 18 Britons in the attack in Sousse on
Friday (June 26), while Horsham pair Kevin French and Gary Woolnough were in a
nearby bar on the beach.

Neither Kevin or Gary was injured, and they returned home to Horsham on Saturday
morning (June 27).

An emotional Kevin admitted he thought that was it' during the attack, and
expressed his heartfelt thanks to the amazing' people of Sousse for their
response to the incident.

He said: "I can't get my head around what has happened. It was like being in a
war zone but I had no machine gun - it was pandemonium.

"Thank God, we have come home safe to our beautiful town, and our friends have
been so good to us here, but I thought that was it.

"I am dazed and haven't been able to sleep. Every time I close my eyes it
replays."

The British death toll is expected to rise to more than 30 once the
identification of victims is completed.

Kevin described the shocking scene as holidaymakers including he and Gary fled
the beach towards the Imperial Mahaba Hotel in the wake of the incident.

He explained that he was talking to Colin, a man in his 70s, in the beach bar
when Rezgui began shooting tourists.

He said: "All of a sudden I heard this bang, the most almighty bang - I thought
it was fireworks.

"I saw this man and there were people - whether they were dead or just fell to
the ground, I don't know.

"Then it was just like pop pop, pop pop' and smoke coming out. I said to Gary
and Colin, we have got a problem here', and Gary just stared in disbelief at
what was unfolding."

They watched as tourists ran from the beach into the bar and hid in the toilets.

Kevin, Gary and Colin joined other holidaymakers in retreating to the Imperial
Mahaba, a walk of around a quarter of a mile, Kevin said.

He added that there was no way of knowing how many terrorists were involved in
the attack.

He said: "He was running across the beach towards the right. He was coming our
way and if he came into the beach bar he is going to have about 70 or 80 people,
and it will be bang, bang, bang'.

"I have never been so frightened. All around us there were grenades going off
and there was gunfire all around."

After reaching the hotel, Kevin and Gary invited Colin, his wife Ruth, and a
younger couple to their room, which was on a higher floor - my priority was to
do what I can to make people safe as best as I could'.

The six sat in the room listening to the gunfire, and feared for their lives
after hearing that Rezgui had stormed the hotel.

They considered barricading themselves in the bathroom, but the attacker soon
left the hotel.

Shortly after, he was shot dead by police.

Kevin visited the resort three times last year and said the staff, some of whom
he knew from previous visits, were amazing'.

He also stressed his guilt at having to leave the country and local people
behind.

He said: "The staff were running down to the beach and I said don't go, you are
going to get shot'. One of them turned around and said it is their job and they
have to go.

"I just want to give something back to the Tunisian people, they were so good. I
felt so guilty for leaving, but our prime concern was our safety.

"The ironic thing is that before I left people said be careful, and I said you
have got more chance of being shot in a high street in the UK."

Following the incident, meetings were held at the hotel where tourists were
ensured that the hotel was in lockdown and that they were safe.

Kevin said he and Gary have been overwhelmed with support from friends since
their return to Horsham.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be among the first to know what's
going on.

1 Make our website your homepage at {http://www.wscountytimes.co.uk|
www.wscountytimes.co.uk | website}

2 Like our Facebook page at {https://www.facebook.com/wscountytimes|
www.facebook.com/wscountytimes | website}

3 Follow us on Twitter {https://twitter.com/wscountytimes | @wscountytimes |
website}

4 Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

The County Times - always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPWG


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wiltshire Gazette and Herald

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

'Hardest days of my life', says granddaughter of Tunisia terror attack victim

BYLINE: Amber Hicks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


THE granddaughter of Eileen Swannack has confirmed the tragic news of her death
in a heartfelt message describing the past few days as the "hardest of her
life".

Lucie Marie Swannack has also paid tribute to her "loving" and "wonderful"
grandmother from Biddestone and expressed her thanks to everyone for their
support on behalf of her and her family.

Posting on Facebook she said: "Thank you to everyone who has had my Nan in their
thoughts over the last few days & for messages of concern & help.

"As most of you will now be aware, my Nan & her partner were unfortunately
killed in the terrorist attack in Tunisia on Friday.

"The last few days have been the hardest of my life, the not knowing, the dread,
the amount of emotions & questions running through all our heads have been
exhausting & as more details unravel I'm sure it will continue to be very
difficult & upsetting for our family for some time.

"We ask for patience & some privacy while we try to come to terms with this &
grieve.

"I cannot understand how anyone could hurt my Nan, she was such a loving
wonderful woman & I'm heartbroken she's been taken from us in such a cruel way.

"Thoughts with everyone involved in & affected by this tragedy."

The Rev Jonathan Philpott, Priest-in-Charge at St Nicholas Church in Biddestone,
said: "The community of Biddestone were shocked and saddened to hear the news
that one of the villagers Eileen Swannack and her partner John Welch, also known
in Biddestone, are victims of the recent terrorist attack in Sousse in Tunisia.

"Biddestone is a small village, with a good sense of community, and so when
events like this take place the effects are widespread across the village.

"As a village church, one of the privileges is being able to stand alongside
people at key moments in life whether they are moments of joy or of sadness, and
so it is important that we mark the minute's silence on Friday, July 3, together
in the church."

There will be a book of condolences in the church from tomorrow and the church
will be open from 9am until 7pm so that people can sign it.

On Friday there will be a quiet service of remembrance for all of the victims of
the terrorist attack, starting at 11.50am at the church.

The service will include a Bible reading, some prayers, the national minute's
silence, and opportunities for reflection.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Bath Chronicle

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Tributes to grandmother killed in terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 4-5

LENGTH: 499  words


The Bath granddaughter of Eileen Swannack has paid tribute to her "loving
wonderful" nan in moving posts on social media.

Lucie Marie Swannack, who lives in Bath, has said how much she will miss her
grandmother who was among those killed in a terror attack in Tunisia on Friday.

Eileen Swannack, from Biddestone, and her partner John Welch, from Corsham, were
killed when a gun man with links to Islamic State opened fire at a beach resort
near Sousse.

Posting on Twitter on Monday, June 30, Lucie Marie said she was still in shock
at the news.

"R.I.P Nanny Eileen. I still can't believe you've been taken from us in such a
cruel way. You will be remembered forever," she said.

Lucie Marie also shared a picture of her two little girls grieving for their
"great nanny Eileen".

In an earlier post on Facebook, she paid tribute to her "loving" and "wonderful"
grandmother and expressed her thanks to everyone for their support on behalf of
her and her family.

She said: "Thank you to everyone who has had my Nan in their thoughts over the
past few days & for messages of concern & help.

"As most of you will now be aware, my Nan & her partner were unfortunately
killed in the terrorist attack in Tunisia on Friday.

"The past few days have been the hardest of my life, the not knowing, the dread,
the amount of emotions & questions running through all our heads have been
exhausting & as more details unravel I'm sure it will continue to be very
difficult & upsetting for our family for some time.

"We ask for patience & some privacy while we try to come to terms with this &
grieve.

"I cannot understand how anyone could hurt my Nan, she was such a loving
wonderful woman & I'm heartbroken she's been taken from us in such a cruel way."

Others have also paid tribute to Eileen on Twitter.

Hannah Green called the 70-year-old grandmother a "diamond".

Valerie Gleeson told Lucie Marie: "I met your Nan & John in Imperial the past
2yrs. They were the sweetest couple who were always smiling. God Bless them."

A short service to remember Eileen and her partner John Welch will be held on
Friday July 3.

The service, at St Nicholas' Church in Biddestone, has been timed to coincide
with a national minute's silence to remember victims of the attack.

Reverend Jonathan Philpott, from St Nicholas' Church, said: "The community of
Biddestone were shocked and saddened to hear the news that one of the villagers
Eileen Swannack and her partner John Welch, also known in Biddestone, are
victims of the recent terrorist attack in Sousse in Tunisia.

"Biddestone is a small village, with a good sense of community, and so when
events like this take place the effects are widespread across the village.

"As a village church, one of the privileges is being able to stand alongside
people at key moments in life whether they are moments of joy or of sadness, and
so it is important that we mark the minute's silence on Friday together in the
church."

A book of condolence is available at the church for people who would like to
sign it.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eileen Swannack, from Biddestone, and her partner John Welch, from
Corsham, who were killed when a gunman opened fire at a beach resort in Tunisia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Terrorists planned to attack intelligence office in Lahore - Pakistan minister

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report by Pakistani Geo News website on 1 July

Lahore: The terrorists killed in Lahore three days ago wanted to attack the
intelligence bureau headquarters on Mall road, revealed Colonel (retired) Shuja
Khanzada on Wednesday [1 July].

Khanzada, the provincial home minister also revealed the identities of the
terrorists before the media. He added that Al-Qa'idah operatives were involved
in planning the attack.

The home minister told journalists that the head of the Al-Qa'idah in the
Subcontinent is an Indian national who is residing in Afghanistan.

Regarding the attack the home minister revealed that the terrorists received
five months of training in Afghanistan before they were sent to Pakistan. Three
of the terrorists arrived in Lahore by way of Wana, said Khanzada.

The provincial home minister further revealed that one of the terrorists killed
was the head of Al-Qa'idah in Pakistan.

The home minister congratulated the law-enforcement agencies for their
successful operation against the terrorists.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 0000gmt 01 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Israel's Hebrew press discusses Iran deal, terror perpetrated by lone attackers

LENGTH: 776 words


The following is a selection of quotes from the Israeli press on 1 July

Wave of terror

The latest wave of terrorist attacks are blamed on independent individuals who
get up one day to carry out a terrorist attack, making the task of catching them
very difficult

"Five terrorist attacks took place in the last 10 days. Many in the media began
to explain that the reason for this growing trend is the lack of political
horizon for what they call 'the two-state solution'... It is clear to anyone
whose mind is not fixed that the growing part of Islam, ISIS, is making far
reaching changes in the world which obligate total changing of perceptions...
ISIS is much more than a mad gang of murders. It is in fact a realization of the
Muslim world's aspiration to return to the days in which Islam controlled
significant part of the world... Therefore, it is natural that some would be
influenced by its ideas also in Judea and Samaria... There is a need to declare
war to death on any identification with ISIS among Israel's Arabs and the best
way is to change legislation in order to defend the country against the growing
wave; inaction would be invitation to rising terrorism..." [From commentary by
Ze'ev Jabotinsky in free, pro-Netanyahu Yisrael Hayom]

"The latest wave of terrorist attacks that took the life of two victims within
less than two weeks finds the security establishment not only powerless without
an end of a rope, but also confused in its messages... Defence Minister Moshe
Ya'alon surprised yesterday when in briefing reporters in the north he said that
the terrorist attacks were carried out by Hamas abroad, operated from
Istanbul... Few hours later, a senior IDF officer briefed military
correspondents and claimed the opposite. He stressed that the latest terrorist
attacks were the product of local disconnected groups. There is no
infrastructure that directed the terrorist attacks in the Jordan valley, near
Dolev, Rachel Grave or Qalandiya. Yet Hamas has planted a permanent, significant
peg in Judea and Samaria... The time has come to demand of the IDF and the
Shabak better results opposite those lonely terrorists, because it is impossible
to accept this a? decree from heaven..." [From commentary by Yossi Yehoshua in
centrist, mass circulation Yediot Aharonot]

"The terrorist attack near the Shvut Rachel settlement was another point in a
succession of terrorist deeds in the West Bank. The murder of Malachi Rosenfeld
and wounding of his friends in ambush join the murder of Danny Gonen near the
Dolev settlement, the wounding of a policeman and female soldier in stabbing
attacks in the Old City of Jerusalem and at Rachel Grave, and two other
terrorist attacks in the Jordan Valley and Beit El... This is the gravest series
of terrorist attacks since last October-November wave of terror... Defence
Minister Moshe Ya'alon accused Hamas command in Turkey of responsibility for the
latest terrorist attacks... Ya'alon and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu
publicly attacked the Palestinian Authority yesterday for the delay in
condemning the terrorist attacks. Indeed, the Authority did not do so, certainly
out of the assumption that these deeds win significant support among the
Palestinian public. But behind the scenes, senior IDF officers and the Shabak
say, security coordination with the Authority continues and that its security
apparatuses continue to act against Hamas military units..." [From commentary by
Amos Harel in left-of-centre, independent broadsheet Ha'aretz]

Nuclear talks

Israel sees in the Iranian nuclear programme an existential threat and believes
that any agreement between Iran and the superpowers is a bad one

"So the Iran talks are based on the idea that by providing verifiable assurances
that the Iranian nuclear programme is peaceful they are protecting other
countries, and preventing World War Three and a nuclear arms race... But to whom
are those assurances being provided? The talks do not include a single
representative from any of the countries considered to be the most threatened by
the Iranians, namely the Sunni states and Israel... How should I as an Israeli
whose life and country have been overtly threatened by the Islamic Republic feel
about the P5+1 and EU taking it upon themselves to decide that in 10 to 15 years
it will be fine for Iran to have a nuclear breakout time significantly less than
two or three months, without Israel or the Sunni states having any direct
representation in the process...? It is impossible to expect countries under
nuclear threat to abide by such an agreement..." [From commentary by Baruch
Stein in English-language Jerusalem Post]

Source: As given

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Arab League council to discuss terrorist attacks on Egyptian army in North Sinai

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 1 July: The meeting of the Arab League Council at the permanent
delegates' level will discuss Thursday [2 July] terrorist attacks on the
Egyptian army forces in North Sinai, said Egypt's permanent delegate at the Arab
League Tariq Adil.

In press statements Wednesday [1 July], Adil said that Egypt requested to hold
the AL council meeting to brief the council on the outcome of the joint meeting
between the Arab ministerial meeting assigned to implement the plan of action to
end the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories.

The meeting was held with French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius on 20 June in
Cairo, he added.

The meeting will also discuss the latest developments in the Palestinian cause
and Egypt's efforts in cooperation with a number of parties, including France
and state members in the council to submit a new resolution for the UN Security
Council to end the Israeli occupation according to a specific timetable, he
said.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1318gmt 01 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Egyptian army says 17 soldiers killed in "terrorist" attack in Sinai

LENGTH: 283 words


The Egyptian army has issued a statement about the "terrorist" attacks against
military checkpoints in North Sinai.

Following is the text of the statement as aired by state-owned Nile News TV
channel at 1752 gmt on 1 July:

"In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful

A statement by the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces;

As of 0655 clt [0455 gmt] on 1 July 2015, a terrorist group attacked a number of
the Army's security checkpoints in Al-Shaykh Zuwayid and Rafah districts
simultaneously using booby-trapped vehicles and different kinds of weapons.

The brave army personnel responded to these criminal elements and aborted their
terrorist attempts.

Armed Forces' troops in North Sinai, with the assistance of the air force,
chased them, destroyed their gathering areas, killed no less than 100 members of
the terrorist elements and injured large numbers of them. Moreover, they also
destroyed 20 vehicles that were used by these criminals and they are now combing
the area.

The criminal operations have left 17 martyrs of the Armed Forces heroes,
including four officers, and 13 wounded, including one officer, [who fell] while
performing their national duty.

O great people of Egypt, your Armed Forces are waging a relentless and fierce
war against terrorism. We stress to our great people that we have the will and
determination to uproot this black terrorism. We will not stop until Sinai is
purged from all terrorist hotspots and our beloved homeland enjoys security and
stability.

May God protect our beloved Egypt, may our innocent martyrs rest in heaven and
may God inspire the Egyptian people patience and fortitude.

Peace be upon you."

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1752gmt 01 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Morocco condemns "despicable terrorist attacks" targeting Egyptian officials

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 1 July (MAP) - The Kingdom of Morocco strongly condemned the despicable
terrorist attacks which targeted the Arab Republic of Egypt during the past
three days, claiming the lives of several victims among high-ranking civil
servants, and army and police members.

While extending its heartfelt condolences and sincere compassion to the victims'
families, Morocco expressed its full solidarity with Egypt against all attempts
to undermine its security and stability, said on Wednesday [1 July] a statement
by the ministry of foreign affairs.

The Kingdom of Morocco also reiterated its refusal of any justification of
terrorism and its condemnation of this destructive plague, that runs counter all
human values and the teachings of the Islamic religion, it added.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1630 gmt 1 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Bexhill Observer

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

COUNTY NEWS: Sussex men witness terrorist attack on Tunisian beach

BYLINE: Harley Tamplin

LENGTH: 699  words


A Sussex man who witnessed the terrifying' moment a terrorist opened fire on
holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach said it was like being in a war zone'.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed at least 18 Britons in the attack in Sousse on
Friday (June 26), while Horsham pair Kevin French and Gary Woolnough were in a
nearby bar on the beach.

Neither Kevin or Gary was injured, and they returned home to Horsham on Saturday
morning (June 27).

An emotional Kevin admitted he thought that was it' during the attack, and
expressed his heartfelt thanks to the amazing' people of Sousse for their
response to the incident.

He said: "I can't get my head around what has happened. It was like being in a
war zone but I had no machine gun - it was pandemonium.

"Thank God, we have come home safe to our beautiful town, and our friends have
been so good to us here, but I thought that was it.

"I am dazed and haven't been able to sleep. Every time I close my eyes it
replays."

The British death toll is expected to rise to more than 30 once the
identification of victims is completed.

Kevin described the shocking scene as holidaymakers including he and Gary fled
the beach towards the Royal Kenz Hotel in the wake of the incident.

He explained that he was talking to Colin, a man in his 70s, in the beach bar
when Rezgui began shooting tourists.

He said: "All of a sudden I heard this bang, the most almighty bang - I thought
it was fireworks.

"I saw this man and there were people - whether they were dead or just fell to
the ground, I don't know.

"Then it was just like pop pop, pop pop' and smoke coming out of it. I said to
Gary and Colin, we have got a problem here', and Gary just stared in disbelief
at what was unfolding."

Kevin watched as tourists ran from the beach into the bar and hid in the
toilets.

He, Gary and Colin joined other holidaymakers in retreating to the Royal Kenz, a
walk of around a quarter of a mile, Kevin said.

He added that there was no way of knowing how many terrorists were involved in
the attack.

He said: "He was running across the beach towards the right. He was coming our
way and if he came into the beach bar he is going to have about 70 or 80 people,
and it will be bang, bang, bang'.

"I have never been so frightened. All around us there were grenades going off
and there was gunfire all around."

After reaching the hotel, Kevin and Gary invited Colin, his wife Ruth, and a
younger couple to their room, which was on a higher floor - my priority was to
do what I can to make people safe as best as I could'.

The six sat in the room listening to the gunfire, and feared for their lives
after hearing that Rezgui had stormed the hotel.

They considered barricading themselves in the bathroom, but the attacker soon
left the hotel.

Shortly after, he was shot dead by police.

Kevin visited the resort three times last year and said the staff, some of whom
he knew from previous visits, were amazing'.

He also stressed his guilt at having to leave the country and local people
behind.

He said: "The staff were running down to the beach and I said don't go, you are
going to get shot'. One of them turned around and said it is their job and they
have to go.

"I just want to give something back to the Tunisian people, they were so good. I
felt so guilty for leaving, but our prime concern was our safety.

"The ironic thing is that before I left people said be careful, and I said you
have got more chance of being shot in a high street in the UK."

Following the incident, meetings were held at the hotel where tourists were
ensured that the hotel was in lockdown and that they were safe.

Kevin said he and Gary have been overwhelmed with support from friends since
their return to Horsham.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage

2) Like our Facebook page

3) Follow us on Twitter

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

Always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPBO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM GMT

Birmingham survivor tells of Tunisia terror attack: 'You could just hear women
screaming, and more gunfire';
Northfield army cadet Connell Freeman was on holiday with his girlfriend in
Sousse when gunman opened fire on beach

BYLINE: By Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


A Birmingham army cadet has spoken of the terrifying moment he and his
girlfriend fled from the beach in Sousse moments after the Tunisia terrorist
attack on Friday.

Connell Freeman, from Northfield, was sunbathing on the beach with girlfriend
Danielle Jones when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire, killing 30 British
people.

The couple sprinted from the beach and were kept in 'lockdown' at their hotel -
which was just 500 yards away from the massacre - until finally being able to
fly home on Monday.

"We were lying on the beach on the sun loungers, just waiting for lunch at the
hotel to open," said the 24-year-old, who had travelled to Tunisia with
Danielle, 21, on June 24.

"At first we thought we heard fireworks.

"People were running towards us and shouting 'We need to get off the beach. Get
off the beach!'

"It was manic.

"You could just hear women screaming, and more gunfire.

"Then you heard police sirens and helicopters.

"We were in lockdown in the hotel," added Connell.

"We didn't know what was going on until we saw the news for the first time
around half an hour later.

"We saw it and realised that it was our hotel, and that the gunman must have
walked past us on the beach."

After the horror Connell and his girlfriend Danielle, 21, decided they wanted to
cut short their week-long holiday with Thomas Cook, and requested to be sent
home on the first available flight. Tunisia attack

They eventually managed to fly to Manchester airport from Enfidha on Monday
morning, with a coach taking them on the rest of their journey back to
Birmingham airport.

"The mood just dropped, and people were leaving in droves because of the fear,"
added Connell. "People were scared it was going to happen again.

"They didn't feel safe.

"We weren't getting any news, apart from on the wi-fi on our phones and people
back home texting us."

Now Connell has explained that he thinks the gunman was deliberately targeting
British tourists.

"Around 75 per cent to 80 per cent of people on that beach were British, with a
few German and French.

"In my mind he went out to target people from the UK."

He also added that he is finding it difficult to comes to terms with the
tragedy.

"It feels just like a film. I can't describe it," he added.

"It's scary to think what will happen when it does all hit, and it's going to
make you crumble."

Yesterday (Tuesday) Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital confirmed that one
victim of the attack was being treated for life-threatening injuries at the
site, after four patients were flown back to the UK by the RAF.

Twenty-one Britons have been identified as victims, with nine more believed to
among the dead, Downing Street said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             chesterchronicle.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 5:46 PM GMT

7/7 London bombings: Fiona Stevenson's sister Andrea says 'there is always
someone missing';
Andrea Watson, of Rossett, speaks to David Holmes ahead of the 10th anniversary
of the terrorist attack in London

BYLINE: By David Holmes

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 922 words


Life has moved on but time has stood still for Andrea Watson since her
29-year-old sister Fiona was murdered in the July 7 terrorist atrocity exactly
10 years ago next Tuesday.

Andrea, 35, was living in Elmwood Avenue, Hoole, when her only sibling Fiona
Stevenson, a talented lawyer, was killed as she made her way to work on the
London underground.

In a cruel waiting game it was several days before her death was confirmed and
the full horror revealed. The 7/7 bombings eventually claimed 52 lives,
including seven in the Aldgate tube blast that killed Fiona.

7/7 anniversary

Next week Andrea will attend the 10th anniversary of the tragedy in the capital
along with family and friends at what she anticipates will be a 'bitter-sweet'
occasion.

A lot has happened in the 10 years since that fateful day.

Andrea married her beloved partner Ian Watson, they moved to a lovely house at
Rossett and today they have two beautiful young daughters aged five and three.
But for Andrea those tragic days of 2005 are frozen in time with Fiona's absence
at key milestones a constant reminder of how her loss has left a sad trail as
life's journey continues.

"It's strange. In some ways 10 years has flown by but in other ways it hasn't at
all," said Andrea, a human resources manager at Wrexham Council, who grew up in
Essex with her sibling. "We were really really close," added Andrea, who suffers
flash-backs at this time of year. Fair justice

Remembering Fiona, she said: "She was funny, happy, generous and a bit clumsy. I
have got that trait as well! And she was always up for a laugh. A couple of
weeks before she died she went to a lawyers' ball, she got changed at 10pm and
went to one party, then onto another party. She worked hard but she played hard
as well. And she was very chilled about everything.

"She believed in the balance of the law, not to 'get someone off' but to make
sure justice was done fairly. She wanted to become a human rights lawyer. She
would always defend the weak and talked about injustice."

Like Fiona, Andrea is blessed with a positive outlook, but can never forgive
those inflicted pain on her family or other families suffering following the
tragedy in Tunisia. "I admire people that can, I really do, but no, there is no
way, especially because I've got to explain to my children why their aunt is not
here. I am angry someone placed me in this position.

"It is hard to explain why their beautiful young aunt died and is not here for
family celebrations, to watch their nativity play or to be there for birthday
parties when others in the family are. These events are bitter-sweet as it is
obvious there is someone missing," explained Andrea, who said there were
pictures of Fiona in the family home.

"It is something no one should have to attempt to explain whilst also dealing
with the grief themselves. We tell them stories about her so that they know who
she was and her memory and importance in the family in order to keep her alive."
Namesake

Her eldest daughter has 'Fiona' as her middle name and the two girls have
brought joy to Andrea's devastated parents Ivan and Emer who will also be
attending next week's commemorations at Aldgate, St Paul's Cathedral and Hyde
Park, where the permanent memorial is based.

Shortly before her death Fiona completed a four month voluntary stint in Belize,
where she advised the government on how to set up child protection legislation.
She fell in love with the people but it was the children who won her heart. And
the family want Fiona's memory to live on through a charity they established in
her name - Fiona Stevenson Memorial Fund -which has raised thousands of pounds
to provide swimming lessons for underprivileged youngsters in the Central
American country who would otherwise be at risk of drowning.

Andrea added: "We hope to bring the girls there to see how much it has helped
those less fortunate and the wonderful work that it has achieved. This has been
possible to keep alive with all the fantastic people that have donated to the
charity and we are eternally grateful for making something positive out of
something so horrible." July 7, 2005

Fiona Stevenson, 29, left her new flat in the Barbican complex in the City of
London at 8.20am on Thursday July 7, 2005, to take the tube to her office in The
Strand. When she didn't turn up for work her family spent the most terrible week
of their lives as they waited for news.

The following Friday police informed them Fiona's body had been identified. The
dead eventually numbered 52, including seven in the Aldgate blast that killed
Fiona. She had been due to visit Andrea at her former home in Hoole. Instead,
the family had to make plans for her funeral.

Fiona had aspired to become a human rights lawyer working for the United
Nations. Spurred on by her desire to develop her skills she took a four-month
unpaid sabbatical to Belize in 2005, shortly before her death. As a volunteer
for Challenges World Wide, she worked with the government to develop a staff
training manual for child care proceedings there.

This opportunity meant she could also indulge her passion for diving, and she
completed two qualifications and a dive in the Blue Hole while in Belize. She
also competed in the 180-mile long, Ruta Maya four-day kayak race and on
arriving back in UK in May 2005, announced that her next project was to climb
Mount Kilimanjaro.

Sister Andrea recalled: "It's just odd. She went out to Belize and mum was
really worried about her because there'd been some shootings. She comes back
here and gets blown up."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBCHEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Whickham memorial planned for gran who was victim of
shootings;
Family overwhelmed by kindness of Whickham community as hundred of pounds raised
in memory of Lisa Burbidge who was killed in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


The heartbroken daughters of Tunisian shooting victim Lisa Burbidge are backing
a bid to create a "lasting memorial" to their mum in the Whickham community
where she lived.

Louise and Melanie Burbidge have been left touched by the hundreds of pounds
already donated towards the memorial, after a fundraising page was set up in
memory of Mrs Burbidge.

Today friends of the family told how the death of the much loved grandmother,
among the 38 people killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui at the Tunisian resort of
Sousse last Friday, has left her daughters shattered.

Joanne Hamilton, 42, a close friend of Louise, said: "The family are devastated;
destroyed.

"They are such a lovely and caring family, they just can't believe what's
happened.

"I met with Louise yesterday and she was overwhelmed by people's kindness and
said she would like to see the memorial for her mum.

"The Whickham community are getting right behind the family and we just wanted
to do something to help in any way we could."

Joanne went to Whickham School with Louise and the couple have been friends ever
since.

Joanne added: "Lisa was such an incredibly kind lady. Everything was about her
family - she lived for them all.

"She adored her four grandchildren and she was well known in the community here
for being such a lovely person."

Mrs Burbidge's grandchildren, Abbie, Chloe, Lewis and Anna, have also visited
the green, close to St Mary the Virgin Church in Whickham, to see some of the
floral tributes that have been laid in memory of their grandmother.

Gateshead community rally to provide tribute for grandmother killed in massacre

Joanne, who has known Louise for more than 20 years, said a decision has no yet
been made on what form the memorial will take but for the time being the
community is hoping to raise £2,000 towards it.

She added: "None of us can comprehend what's happened. You see these things on
the television but, suddenly, when you know someone who has been affected, it
really brings things home."

More than £800 has already been raised towards the memorial.

Mrs Burbidge was killed last Friday, on the 10th anniversary of her husband
Bill's death.

Thirty of the 38 victims of the beach massacre are thought to be British and the
repatriation of the bodies is expected to take several days.

Four seriously injured Britons have already been flown home for treatment.

3 minute long footage shows gunman's last moments in Tunisia as brave hotel
staff chase after the killer

Tunisian authorities have arrested several people on suspicion of helping gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui and at least two other suspects are wanted by police.

The 23-year-old student, who had links to the Islamic State jihadist group, was
shot dead by police after the killings on the beach in Sousse on June 26.

Security sources say he is thought to have been trained in Libya at the same
time as two men behind the Bardo museum attack in Tunis that left 22 people dead
in March.

A spokesman said the government was "working closely" with victims' families.

A team from the Foreign Office, the Ministry of Defence and the police is in
Tunisia.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 8:30 AM GMT

Memorial page set up in memory of Tunisia victim and Gateshead gran Lisa
Burbidge;
Fundraising page set up for Gateshead victim of Tunisian terror attack aims to
raise £2,000 towards a memorial

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 280 words


Friends left devastated by the death of Tunisian shooting victim Lisa Burbidge
are trying to raise £2,000 for a memorial to the much-loved grandmother.

A special fundraising page has been set up in memory of the Gateshead mum, with
hundreds of pounds already donated.

The Whickham community has been left shocked by the death of popular Mrs
Burbidge, who was among 38 people killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui at the
Tunisian resort of Sousse last Friday.

A statement on the fundraising page reads: "Lisa's death has greatly saddened
and shocked our small community.

"Lisa was loved my so many, she touched so many hearts.

"We would like to provide a memorial in her honour. Please donate anything that
you can to help make this happen."

The UK death toll from the beach massacre is expected to reach 30.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokeswoman said 21 Britons had already
been "positively identified" as victims of the murder spree, while another nine
are believed to be among the dead.

Mrs Burbidge, a grandmother-of-four, was on holiday with her family when
23-year-old Rezgui opened fire at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El
Kantaoui neighbourhood.

Authorities in Tunisia are currently quizzing seven suspected associates of the
gunman.

All wounded Britons have now been brought back to the UK, with four severely
injured holidaymakers flown home in an RAF C17 transport plane accompanied by
"medevac" teams.

They are being treated at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford, Plymouth and London.

Possible connections between the gunman and extremism in the UK have also
emerged, while there were reports that the killer was an Islamic State "sleeper"
who was trained in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BACK HOME;
Family tell of relief as city couple who survived Tunisia terror attack are safe
at last ; Back home

BYLINE: Antonia bannister

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 312 words


A YOUNG couple from Coventry who survived the Tunisia terror attack have
returned home and are receiving medical treatment for their injuries.

Ross Thompson, 21, and Rebecca Smith, 22, had only arrived at the resort in
Sousse on Friday, a few hours before ISIS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.
Both suffered shrapnel injuries during the attack.

Ross's foot and arm are in a plaster cast, and he had an operation yesterday,
while Rebecca suffered wounds to her face and body and was due to go into
theatre today.

Ross's mum Mandy spoke of her relief at having her son and his girlfriend return
home safely.

The Wyken resident said: "They got back into Manchester at about two-ish on
Sunday.

"Some family and friends held them a welcome home party."

She added: "We took them to A&E on Monday as was recommended.

"Ross was back in hospital for an operation yesterday.

"Rebecca will see a plastic surgeon about the injuries to her face today."

When asked how Ross and Rebecca were feeling after the ordeal, Mandy said: "I
don't think it's hit them yet.

"They've not had time to stop and think really.

"Being alone in hospital might have bought back a few memories for Ross."

Following the attack, where at least 39 people were killed, Ross was able to let
the couple's families know they were okay by borrowing a national newspaper
reporter's phone.

TURN TO PAGE 2 FROM PAGE ONE Mandy said she is still in shock over the incident.
She added: "I still can't believe it.

"I'm just glad that they're home."

Mandy will now be nursing the pair back to health along with her husband who
broke his knee and leg in an accident a few weeks ago.

Mandy joked: "Now I've got the three of them here.

"I'm the only one driving so I'll be taking them to hospital appointments and
making them cups of tea.

"I was going to go back to work to have a rest but I've booked some time off to
look after them all."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ross ¦ Thompson and Rebecca Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2015 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 11:13 PM GMT

Ex-Police chief warns about 'lone wolf' terror attacks in the UK

BYLINE: Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 402 words


THE THREAT of a "lone wolf" terror attack is a "huge problem" for Brit security
services, warned a former Met Police commissioner.

Lord Blair, who was in charge at the time of the 7/7 bombings in London 10 years
ago, said "a single individual with no previous contact" was now the main
concern.

He added that it was now even more crucial to work with the British Muslim
community.

He said: "Only the community can give the police that first clue that there is
something odd going on in that house."

Lord Blair

Lord Blair, 62, was the country's most senior police officer between 2005 and
2008 and is now a crossbench peer.

He was in charge of the Met Police's response to the July 7 2005 terrorist
attacks, in which 52 people were killed by suicide bombers on three tube trains
and a bus.

Lord Blair said the threat had "in some ways lessened" since those attacks
because "the security services and the police have been able to develop
techniques which have thwarted a lot".

He said: "But as it evolves into what is sometimes called 'lone wolf', 'clean
skin', that is a huge problem - because the more people you have in a conspiracy
the more chances are somebody is going to find out about it.

"If you are just a single individual with no previous contact, then that is a
very big problem to solve - which is why the role of the community is so
important.

"It is still this horrible sense of a random threat sitting out there somewhere
- as in Tunisia, if you just happened to be on the beach, in the wrong place at
the wrong time."

However he cautioned against the government's approach, after David Cameron
accused Muslim communities of "quietly condoning" extremist ideologies instead
of confronting them.

Lord Blair told the BBC: "We have to take a very resolute approach, be resolute
in actually requiring and demanding this community works with us. But you don't
do it to them, you do it with them.

"It seems to me we have to accept there are people who live their lives by
fundamentalist rules.

"Fundamentalism in itself is not a matter for the state to interfere with - it's
when it slides into violent extremism it is."

Related articles Wimbledon: Extra cops shipped in on day one of championship
after terror threat scare UK TERROR ALERT: Cops to stage huge mock mass shooting
exercise Stand up against terror: Millions of Brits urged to remember victims on
7/7 anniversary

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:21 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Bodies of eight Britons killed in beach massacre flown
home by RAF;
THE bodies of Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen
Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites were flown back to RAF
Brize Norton today.

BYLINE: By David Wilcock

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 370 words


THE bodies of eight Britons killed in the Tunisian beach massacre have arrived
back in the UK.

A C-17 military transport aircraft, which left Tunis airport earlier today,
landed at Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

The flight contains the bodies of Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards,
Carly Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites.

They were among the 38 people shot dead by student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, at the
beach resort of Sousse on Friday.

Plane carrying bodies of British victims of the Tunisian beach massacre lands
back in the UK

As the plane landed, a statement issued on behalf of Suzanne Richards for the
Evans and Richards families said: "We are a very small and normal family, but
nothing will ever be normal again.

"My son Joel, dad Pat and brother Adrian were our rocks and we are all
heartbroken and devastated and will never get over losing them."

Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen survived the attack.

Ms Richards said the holiday was intended to be a celebration and had only just
begun.

"The 'jolly boys outing' as they called it, was to celebrate Joel finishing his
2nd year at University with high grades and Owen finishing his GCSE's," she
said.

When the plane landed relatives of those on board wept and comforted each other.

Referring to the attack Ms Richards said the 'nation must fight this evil
together' while remembering to 'smile' for the loved-ones taken away.

She said: "The 'jolly boys outing' as they called it, was to celebrate Joel
finishing his 2nd year at University with high grades and Owen finishing his
GCSE's.

"Their holiday lasted less than 24 hours and their futures and lives ended
tragically.

"We would like to say how overwhelmed we are with everyone's tributes, flowers,
cards and generosity.

"They were pure diamonds and will never be forgotten.

"As a nation we must fight this evil together and smile for Joel, Ade and Pat."

Four Scots were killed in last Friday's atrocity. Jim and Anne McQuire and Billy
and Lisa Graham were among the 38 victims.

Friends and family of Billy and Lisa will gather on Friday evening in their
hometown of Bankfoot, Perthshire to pay their respects to the fun-loving duo.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 5:10 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Bodies of slaughtered Brits return to UK

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 321 words


BODIES of eight Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach attack have returned to the
UK.

The C-17 military transport aircraft left Tunis airport bound for Brize Norton
in Oxfordshire and landed back in Britain at 3pm on Wednesday.

The bodies of eight Brits killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in the holiday
resort of Sousse are on board.

The flight contains the bodies of Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards,
Carly Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites.

Chief coroner for England and Wales His Honour Judge Peter Thornton QC said:
"The bereaved families of those who died in Tunisia will be at the heart of this
investigation process.

"The utmost consideration will be given to these families throughout this
process."

A minute's silence will be held in honour of the victims on Friday at noon.

It will mark one week since the terrorist attack - the worst to strike Britain
since the 7/7 bombings.

Wimbledon will also join in the memorial silence the All England Club confirmed.

Richard Lewis said: "We will be asking all those in the grounds at the time to
observe the silence out of respect to the victims in Tunisia and their
families."

Christopher and Sharon Bell, from Leeds, are the latest victims of the tragedy
to be named.

Relatives said they are "deeply saddened" by their deaths.

Rezgui, a 23-year-old student, slaughtered 38 people as they sunbathed on a
beach on Friday.

He was caught on video massacring the holidaymakers with a Kalashnikov rifle.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Effort to fly Brit bodies back to the UK
underway Tunisia terror: Dad who used body as human shield to save fiancé up for
bravery award British gun victim sent selfie and message before beach hell Steer
clear of these places for your holiday...the world's most dangerous places
revealed

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 1:57 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Ex-soldier Scot survived wars unscathed... only to die on
holiday;
BILLY Graham's family are clinging to the hope that he and wife Lisa may have
survived, but are facing the prospect that after serving in the army unharmed
for 22 years, he may have died on what should have been a relaxing holiday.

BYLINE: By Sarah Vesty

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


A SCOT feared dead in the Tunisia massacre was a former soldier who survived
service in Northern Ireland, Kuwait and Iraq.

Billy Graham was in the Army for 22 years and retired unscathed.

But last night his family were facing the heartbreak of losing him, although
they are clinging to a hope that he and wife Lisa might have survived .

Older brother Lindsay, from Kirriemuir, Angus, said: "Billy was based in
Northern Ireland on active duty then served in Kuwait and Iraq too.

"He joined the the Royal Inniskilling Dragoon Guards because it was the same
regiment as Lisa's father.

"He had the option to leave after nine years but he was determined to complete
the whole 22 years. He fought terrorists for years and now they might have got
him."

Lindsay added: "It's even worse because we've only just lost our mum on May 3.
We're going through absolute torture right now.

"Not knowing is the worst thing.

"Billy and Lisa's brothers and sisters, we can't get any information from the
Foreign Office. It'll be their daughter Holly that gets the call to let her know
what's happened."

Billy's mum Margaret died at the age of 89.

His sister-in-law, Valerie Hobson, 53, who lives near the Grahams' home in
Bankfoot, Perthshire, said: "The funeral was just a few weeks before they went
on holiday.

"It's awful because Lisa's got no parents, both Billy's parents are now dead and
so Holly's all on her own.

"She's just up the road from me, though, and she knows I'll be there for her
whenever she needs me."

Valerie added: "The worst thing of all is not knowing whether they're alive or
dead or severely injured.

"We're hoping and praying they're still alive but are just unable to make
contact for some reason."

Chris Dodd, who runs tech firm Tynetec, where Billy works as a business
development manager, said they were keeping the family in their thoughts.

He said: "We are shocked and deeply concerned for the safety and wellbeing of
Billy and Lisa."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 10:57 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Terrified East Kilbride holidaymakers escape beach
horror;
COUPLE Diane Boyd and David Fleming and sisters Alison and Elaine Mackenzie were
just moments from the deadly rampage on the Sousse beach where crazed gunman
Seifeddine Rezgu shot dead 38 innocent tourists.

BYLINE: By Andrea O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 700 words


Holidaymakers from East Kilbride have told of their "sheer terror" after
narrowly escaping the horror Tunisian beach massacre.

Diane Boyd and her partner David Fleming were sunning themselves on the Sousse
beach on Friday when crazed gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire and shot dead
38 innocent tourists - the majority of them British.

Diane, of St Leonards, and David, of Coatbridge, were staying in the El Mouradi
Palm Marina Hotel, next door to the Imperial Marhaba Hotel where the terror
attack took place.

She said: "We were on the beach at around 12pm and we heard this noise and shot
up quickly. It sounded like rapid gunfire, that is the only way I could describe
it.

"We got into reception and it was a bit chaotic. A few people were upset but
mainly people were just walking around in shock.

"Then we went back to our hotel room and we could see from the balcony the armed
police and police helicopters on the beach. We're so relieved to be home and
can't stop thinking about the people who have lost their lives."

The couple flew home on the first specially chartered flight back to the UK on
Saturday along with fellow East Kilbridians Alison and Elaine Mackenzie.

Sisters Alison (37) and Elaine (34) told the News if they hadn't decided to go
on a last-minute day trip, they too would have been caught up in the carnage.

The shocked siblings, who were staying at the Hotel Royal Kenz, just yards from
the deadly rampage, had spent the whole day at the beach on Thursday, and
sunbathed there on the morning of the terror attack.

Alison, of The Murray, said: "We would've been there, right where it happened if
we hadn't decided to go on that two-hour trip.

"So many things stopped us from being there. We're so utterly relieved to be
home safe."

Alison said the pair returned to the resort just moments after armed police had
gunned down 23-year-old terrorist Rezgui.

"Our bus got caught in a road block on our way back to the hotel", she said.

"The police told us they had just shot a terrorist who by that point they knew
had killed five people.

"He said there were people in our hotel who shouldn't be there - possibly a
second gunman - so we had to lock ourselves in our room until it was safe.

"We heard helicopters overhead, sirens and people screaming and there were
soldiers with machine guns and snipers on the roof of our hotel - it was
absolutely terrifying.

"We just had visions of gunmen getting onto our balcony from the roof. It was
horrendous."

NHS Lanarkshire staff Alison and Elaine, of Westwood, were holed up in their
hotel room for three hours watching as the terrifying events unfolded on the
news.

There they were able to ring their parents, who had been frantically trying to
reach them, and post on Facebook to let their loved ones know they were safe.

Alison said when they were finally allowed down to the hotel lobby, they were
met with "absolute chaos".

"There were people everywhere in a blind panic, it was absolute chaos", she
said.

"All we could think about was keeping ourselves safe and making it home. I've
never felt fear like it - it was sheer terror.

"We were told by staff that a second shooter had been killed and that a girl
staying at our hotel had been shot in the arm.

"Another person played dead on the sand to avoid being shot.

"I didn't see anyone with gun shot wounds but lots of people were in wheelchairs
after suffering burns to their feet on the hot sand and concrete path while
running away from the gunman."

Travel agent Thomson initially told the sisters they may not be able to fly home
as all planes had been grounded as a safety precaution.

"It took nine-and-a-half hours before anyone could tell us anything. There were
fights breaking out with everyone panicking", said Alison.

"We managed to get on the first flight back to the UK which was a really
frightening experience. I didn't feel safe until we touched down.

"We're so relieved to be home but it's been horrible seeing the names and faces
of those who are not going to get back.

"I keep thinking of them. I'm so sorry for their families."

The sisters will be at George Square on Friday at 12pm to pay their respects
during the national minute's silence for all those who lost their lives in the
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BALCONY BLOODBATH;
Scots dad tells how he saved murder suspect after he jumped ; from hotel in
Majorca ; holiday. attaCK TERROR ; My missus woke me up in middle of night
saying there was somebody hanging off the balcony ; HOTEL HORROR MAN SAVED BY
SCOT IS MURDER SUSPECT HOTEL HORROR MAN SAVED BY SCOT IS MURDER SUSPECT

BYLINE: SALLY HIND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 705 words


A SCOT saved a man from death in a hotel balcony fall - then learned he was a
fleeing murder suspect.

Archie Campbell yesterday told of the terrifying moment the bloodstained man
fell on to his fourth-floor balcony in Majorca from the level above.

The pub landlord, 55, was alerted by partner Maureen Kinnane to the earlyhours
drama after she spotted the man dangling from the balcony above. And tURN tO
PAGE 4 FROM PAGE ONE as the couple watched in horror, he fell, landing on a
ledge just outside their balcony.

They tried desperately to cling on to him to stop him falling to the concrete
below.

Then within seconds, they heard banging at the door and their room was invaded
by a squad of police and hotel security staff.

They were responding to reports of a savage assault on the floor above - but
Archie and Maureen had no idea of what had happened.

A man had been brutally bludgeoned and had died of his injuries later in
hospital.

It took an hour for the police and guards, aided by firefighters using ladders,
to pull the suspect, who is understood to be Italian, into the couple's room.

Dad-of-four Archie, from Clydebank, who now runs a pub in Walthamstow, London,
said yesterday: "My missus woke me up in the middle of the night saying there
was somebody hanging off the balcony.

"All we could see was his legs dangling above then he fell, landing on a narrow
ledge just outside the balcony.

"My partner and I grabbed him. He would have fallen to the concrete below if we
hadn't.

"He managed to jam his foot under the balcony but was hanging upside down. He
was covered in blood but I didn't know what had happened at that point."

The drama at the Globales Palma Nova Palace Hotel was witnessed by guests in the
rooms around the balcony, including another Scots couple, John and Jackie Howie.

They took photographs as the firefighters positioned an inflatable below the man
to break his fall if he jumped.

Archie said last night: "There was a lot of commotion on the ground with
residents who had gathered outside.

"It took security about an hour to get the man up into our room.

"They were throwing bed sheets down and firefighters came up on a ladder."

But it was only several hours later when Maureen, 51, asked for the room to be
cleaned of blood smears and a stained T-shirt that she learned of the death
upstairs.

It is believed the dead man was also Italian.

Archie said: "Both Thomson and the Globales group have not been back in touch
with me since we came home.

"The holiday was totally ruined. My wife was traumatised by the whole thing."

John, 52, from Alloa, also saw the man dangling after hearing screams.

And he revealed that he had spoken to a dad-of-two from the Newcastle area who
walked in on the deadly confrontation on the fifth floor.

The man, who had gone to the room to investigate noises, will be a key witness
in the case.

John said: "There was an almighty screaming noise. It was absolutely horrendous.

"When I looked out, the guy was hanging down from the balcony. He was hanging
like that for some time.

"Nobody knew at this point he was trying to escape.

"When we got up in the morning, it emerged that the guy had been fighting with a
guy on the fifth floor and jumped.

"This man (the witness) had gone to the room after his mother-in-law heard
people banging on the doors.

"He saw the guy hitting the other man with a safe door. He was told the man had
passed away on the way to hospital.

"He had to go to the police station for a whole day as he is a key witness. He
was pretty traumatised.

"The hotel didn't issue a statement to anybody. Everyone was panicking about
their own safety.

"We couldn't find our Thomson reps in the days www.after.No one knew what was
going on."

John said tour operators Thomson have offered to foot the bill for counselling
and send him a voucher for another holiday.

He said: "Everybody was traumatised by this. I went and bought a doorstop to
make sure nobody could get into my room. Jackie was extremely shaken up. She was
physically sick."

A hotel spokesman said the manager was not available to comment on the death
yesterday.

A Thomson spokeswoman said last night that dealing with last week's terror
attacks at their Tunisia resort had prevented them from investigating the
incident fully.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAVERY Archie CampbellNO ESCAPE Fire crews, circled, climb ladder to
reach murder suspectSHOCKED Archie and Maureen, left. Below, John and Jackie
HoweCAPTURE Hotel guests look on as firefighters try to get the man insidePLACE
IN THE SUN The balconies and pool areas of the Globales Palma Nova Palace during
the daytime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Essex Chronicle

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Islamic leader condemns the terror attack

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 116  words


KASHIF Ahmad, of the Al Falah Islamic Centre in Silks Way, Braintree,  was quick
to condemn the attack.

He said: "The attacks that occurred in Tunisia are totally unacceptable and we
condemn the acts performed by these individuals.

"Their acts of violence are against the teachings of the Quran, Prophet (Peace
be Upon Him) and Islam. Such incidents make it particularly difficult for the
peace loving majority especially the children, elderly and women within the
community.

"Our thoughts, prayers and solidarity go to the families of the victims and
especially to those effected in Braintree during this special month of prayer
and fasting.

"May Allah bring justice against those who look to harm us."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prayers: Kashif Ahmad of the Al Falah Mosque in Braintree

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

This misplaced attack on BBC is playing into hands of the terrorists

BYLINE: Roy Greenslade

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 584 words


THE world is confronted by terror in the form of a Middle East group that
decapitates prisoners, and encourages its followers to shoot tourists at random
and murder cartoonists.

Its stated objective is to create an Islamic caliphate which, for want of a
better description, is a kind of worldwide superstate. It not only refuses to
recognise the borders constructed after the fall of the Ottoman empire, it does
not recognise any borders anywhere around the globe.

Since its foundation in 1999, it has been known by several names and, in the
ensuing confusion, media outlets across the world have tended to use a variety
of titles. Some call it the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (with the
consequent acronym Isil). Some prefer the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham
(Isis). Others use the short-form "Islamic State" while my Arabic-speaking
friends always refer to it as Da'ish or Da'eesh.

So what? Given the nature of this barbaric group, its name is largely
irrelevant. We know the animal for what it is - the enemy of freedom and
democracy. It is a terrorist organisation and we look to our political leaders
to protect us and to construct a strategy to bring it to heel.

Instead - and words almost fail me as I write this - a cross-party group of 120
MPs, following the Prime Minister's lead, have turned their guns on the BBC for
using the term "Islamic State" in its news output when reporting on the group's
blood-soaked atrocities.

They wrote to the BBC's Director General, Lord (Tony) Hall, to complain by
adopting this most specious of arguments: the group is neither Islamic nor does
it represent a state.

Did they really think we didn't know that? Do they sincerely believe the British
people are fooled by the name? Are they seriously suggesting people will sign up
to join a gang of murderers because it has chosen a name in which it claims to
be an Islamic state? Sadly, a BBC spokesman has given the letter credence by
saying that the corporation will now consider the matter. Don't, Tony, please
don't. It would be a travesty to do so. In fact, more hearteningly, the BBC did
issue a statement in which it said that none of its viewers and listeners could
be in any doubt about what Islamic State does and does not represent. As the
spokesman said: "We call the group by the name it uses itself."

In a sense, this initiative by our MPs is political correctness stood on its
head. It is asking Britain's largest news organisation to come up with some kind
of euphemism to mask the truth.

The objectors seem to think that Islamic State is winning some kind of
propaganda war. Really? Where is the proof of that? According to David Cameron,
speaking on Radio 4's Today: "Many Muslims listening to this programme will
recoil every time they hear the words Islamic State." He appears to base this on
receiving letters from a couple of Muslim groups that, to be honest, should know
better.

Then, in a further retreat from sanity, Cameron later said he preferred
reporters to call it Isil which (see above) is simply an acronym that includes
the words "Islamic State". Please, Mr Cameron, don't bash the BBC for doing its
job. Surely, creating a row for no good reason between Britain's Prime Minister
and Britain's public service broadcaster plays right into the hands of the
terrorists.

Roy Greenslade is Professor of Journalism, City University London, and writes a
blog for The Guardian @GREENSLADER

'The objectors seem to think that Islamic State is winning some kind of
propaganda war. Really?'

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 9:35 PM GMT

British death toll from Tunisia beach terror attack rises to 29

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 319 words


THE number of British people killed in the Tunisia beach terror attack has now
officially risen to 29, Philip Hammond confirmed tonight.

NC

The number of British victims has officially risen to 29

The Foreign Secretary said that 29 British victims have now been formally
identified, with the identity one more fatality who is believed to be British
still be to be conclusively established.

Those killed in the atrocity include an ex professional footballer, a man
celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary and a young photographer.

Speaking this evening after chairing the latest meeting of the Government's
COBRA emergency committee, Mr Hammond said: "I can confirm that the number of
Britons killed in the Tunisia terrorist attack who have been positively
identified has now reached 29.

"One victim now remains who we believe is British but police require further
time to confirm the identity.

"All of our injured are home and all bar one of the 30 who we believe are
British have now been positively identified.

"The first RAF flight to repatriate the bodies of those killed in the attack
returned eight of the victims to their loved ones.

"The remaining bodies will be flown back to Britain over the coming days."

The operation to bring home the bodies of 24 victims of the horrifying terror
attack set off from Britain this morning.

The first RAF flights left during the early hours carrying the bodies of Britons
back to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire to be reunited with their families.

Some 21 of the British victims of the attack have now been named, including
former Birmingham City player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine.

In total 38 people shot dead by student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, at the beach
resort of Sousse on Friday.

The gun-wielding Islamist fanatic stormed the beach with a Kalashnikov and
opened fire on sunbathers, with a post-mortem report latering showing he was
high on cocaine at the time.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 5:56 PM GMT

Tunisia gunman trained at SAME Libyan terror camp as Bardo museum attackers

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt & Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 684 words


THE gunman behind the Tunisia beach massacre trained at the same Libyan terror
camp as the jihadists who carried out the Bardo museum attack, it has emerged.

AP

Seifeddine Rezgui killed around 30 British tourists in Tunisia

Seifeddine Rezgui, who killed around 30 Britons at a beach resort last week, was
coached at the same time as Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui, one of
Tunisia's top security officials announced today.

The pair gunned down 20 tourists as they visited the famous museum in March,
opening fire as they got off a bus and taking people hostage during a three-hour
siege.

Rafik Chelli, the secretary of state for the Interior Ministry, said:"It has
been confirmed that the attacker trained in Libya with weapons at the same
period as the Bardo attackers.

"He crossed the borders secretly."

Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond today said the spread of ISIS into libya
helped sow the seeds for the Tunisia beach attack.

"I think the thing that has changed is the spread of Isil into the ungoverned
territory of Libya, a neighbouring country to Tunisia," he said.

Mr Chelli said Rezgui, a 24-year-old Master's student in electrical engineering,
left his studies at Kairouan University and sneaked into the western Libyan town
of Sabratha in January, which is when the two young men were there.

Authorities had previously said that there was no evidence he had left the
country.

It comes amid claims that Rezgiu was inspired by Saifallah Ben Hassine - a
fanatic who ran a terror network from London.

Ben Hassine led the Tunisian Fighting Group - which had links to al-Quaeda -
from London from 2000, according to court papers.

The global terror network "aimed to send them to Afghanistan for training", the
documents added.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Brave teen who tried to protect Britons
by...  Tunisia terror attack: Ex-Birmingham City footballer Denis...

After leaving Britain, Ben Hassine founded Ansar al-Sharia, seen as the Tunisian
wing of ISIS, which is said to have indoctrinated Rezgui this year.

The notorious group is based in the city of Kairouan, where the 24-year-old
gunman studied for a master's degree.

Ansar al-Sharia was behind a suicide bomb attack at another popular resort in
Sousse two years ago.

The court documents added that Ben Hassine was a disciple of radical cleric Abu
Qatada - seen as the "mastermind" of the case.

Last year Qatada said Ben Hassine was "among the best of those I have known in
intellect" and "the most knowledgeable of people of my intentions".

GETTY

Sousse was shaken by the bloody massacre on Friday

Authorities in Tunisia are quizzing seven suspected associates of Rezgui.

They have said he acted alone during the rampage but had accomplices who
supported him before, providing him with weapons and logistical support.

Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said an investigation was under way into
security failures and there would be armed tourist police on beaches.

The president said heightened security had been planned from July 1 to coincide
with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, but that attacks on sunbathing tourists
had not been anticipated.

Mr Essebsi told Europe 1 radio: "It is not a perfect system - it is true we were
surprised by this affair. They took measures for the month of Ramadan but never
did they think the attack would be on the beaches against tourists, and the
system of protection was set to start July 1."

Yesterday David Cameron announced that a minute's silence will be held on Friday
to honour the victims of the attack.

The act of remembrance will take place nationwide at 12 noon, a week after the
bloody massacre shook Sousse.

In an emotional speech, the Prime Minister vowed to stand by Tunisia in the
fight against extremism, saying: "Together we will prevail."

He added: "We must confront this evil with everything we have."

Related articles Tunisia terror: Suspects associated with killer detained
Tunisia terror attack: Brave teen who tried to protect Britons by throwing ROCKS
at killer Tunisia terror attack: National minute's silence for British victims
of beach massacre  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 5:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Man wanted in connection with beach massacre is heading
for EUROPE

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 385 words


ONE of the two "dangerous terrorists" wanted in connection with the Tunisia
beach massacre is already in Libya and is heading for EUROPE.

TUNISIA INTERIOR MINISTRY

Raffique Tayari is wanted in connection with the beach attack

Raffique Tayari, 28, has called his parents "several times" to tell them that he
is "safe" - and is trying to get to Italy.

His parents deny he is a terrorist, or an accomplice of crazed gunman Seifeddine
Rezgiu who gunned down 39 tourists at a holiday resort in Sousse, claiming he
left his home in the suburbs of Tunis seven months ago.

But the revelation he has fled the country so soon is set to put British
security services on high alert.

Police have arrested seven people in the hunt for the group who helped Rezgiu
carry out his brutal massacre, which has left around 30 Britons dead.

Authorities released images of Tayari and Mohamed bin Abdallah, 24, from
northern Tunisia, describing them as "dangerous" men, who are on the run,
suspected of assisting Rezgui, earlier this week.

The Tunisian Interior Ministry asked for information on their whereabouts.

They said the pair did not participate in the shootings, but are believed to
have helped Rezgui.

Related articles  Fears of imminent British terror attack as police see surge
in...  Returning home: Bodies of EIGHT Britons massacred in Tunisia...

TUNISIA INTERIOR MINISTRY

Mohamed bin Abdallah is also wanted

Rezgui was seen shooting his Kalashnikov gun while wearing shorts and a T-shirt.

But many victims have recalled seeing another man firing shots wearing red
shorts and no shirt - prompting speculation Rezgui did not act alone.

There could have even been three shooters as stories from victims emerge.

Yesterday Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond said the spread of ISIS into Libya
helped sow the seeds for the Tunisia beach attack.

His comments came after it emerged Rezgui was coached at the same time and at
the same Libyan terror camp as the jihadists who carried out the Bardo museum
attack.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: RAF heads to Sousse to bring dead
victims home to their families Football chief leads tributes to Scots killed by
Tunisia terrorist More than 42 MILLION Muslims 'support ISIS' - as experts warn
the figure will grow WhatsApp and Facebook face MAJOR changes after terrorist
attack

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 10:00 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: RAF heads to Sousse to bring dead victims home to their
families

BYLINE: Levi Winchester, Peter Henn, Oli Smith and Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 2117 words


THE operation to bring home the bodies of 24 victims of the horrifying terror
attack in Tunisia set off from Britain this morning.

NC

15 British victims of the Sousse attacks

The first RAF flights left during the early hours and will carry bodies of
Britons back to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire to be reunited with their families.

Some 21 British victims of the Tunisian beach terror attack have now been named,
with the death toll expected to hit at least 30.

Tributes have flooded in for the British victims who include an ex professional
footballer, a man celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary and a young
photographer.

Former Birmingham City player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine are reported to
have been killed in the horrendous attack on Friday.

The retired couple, aged 70 and 69 and from Blackpool, had arrived in Sousse on
Wednesday and were staying at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba when an Islamist
gunman went on the rampage.

Birmingham City tonight tweeted a tribute to the couple after their son-in-law
Danny Clifford took to Twitter in a desperate bid to find out what had happened
to them.

Paying tribute tonight Mr Clifford wrote: "There is now a void in our lives that
will never be filled, but your thoughts and words will keep Lindsey and I strong
at this most difficult time. Thank you.

"Mum and Dad were the kindest, caring, loving parents any daughter could wish
for. Rest in peace now my angels."

In a statement Birmingham City said: "We are deeply shocked and saddened by the
death of former player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine in the Tunisian
terrorist attack.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family. The club also offers its condolences to
all who are mourning loved ones due to this atrocity."

Gordon Marsden, MP for Blackpool South, added: "Very sad to hear Denis and
Elaine Thwaites from Blackpool among those killed in the terrorist attack in
Sousse and condolences to their family."

PA

Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine were reportedly killed in the atrocity

William and Lisa Graham are also reported to have been killed in the beach
resort massacre.

William's brother Lindsay Graham confirmed the tragic news.

He said: "Just to tell you my brother Billy and his wife Lisa are dead."

The couple from Perthshire, Scotland were on holiday to celebrate Mrs Graham's
50th birthday.

Mr Graham worked as a turnstile operator at St Johnstone football club, which
has paid tribute to him today.

Steve Brown, the chairman of the Perth club, said: "This is terrible news and
our thoughts go out to the whole family at this time.

"Billy was part of the St Johnstone family and a great ambassador for the club,
who always did his job with a smile on his face."

SWNS

The Grahams had been visiting Sousse to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th birthday

Two more Britons killed in the attack were named today as Janet and John
Stocker, from Crawley.

In a statement their family said that 74-year-old Mr Stocker was a retired
printer and his 63-year-old wife a devoted mother.

The couple had five children and 10 grandchildren.

The family said: "Mum and dad were the happiest, most loving couple who enjoyed
life's simple pleasures as well as the pleasures and love of their extensive
family and their many friends, but most of all they were still very much in love
with each other.

"They were both young at heart and enjoyed all that life could offer, and
especially enjoyed travelling to new places, exploring and appreciating local
cultures, and they died together doing what they enjoyed most - sunbathing side
by side."

PA

Janet and John Stocker, from Crawley, were killed in the attack

John Stollery, a 58-year-old social worker from Nottinghamshire, was named by
Nottinghamshire Council Council as among those killed in the atrocity.

Mr Stollery was described by his family as a special man "who made a difference
and gave his best to others".

In a statement his wife Cheryl said: "We, his family, are proud of him and
deeply saddened that he was taken from us in such a horrific and tragic way."

Engineer Chris Dyer, 32, was also killed in the attack according to friends in
Watford.

His wife Gina Van Dort was severely wounded in the attack, but survived.

She was reportedly found clutching her husband's lifeless body.

The Jiu Jitsu club that Mr Dyer was a member of posted on Twitter mourning his
loss.

IG

John Stollery, from Nottingham, died during the attack

TWITTER

Engineer Chris Dyer, 32, was also killed according to friends in Watford

The brother-in-law of 52-year-old Philip Heathcote, who had flown to Tunisia to
celebrate his wedding anniversary, tonight confirmed that his relative was also
among the dead.

Mr Heathcote, from Felixstowe in Suffolk, was on a holiday to celebrate 30 years
of marriage when he was gunned down.

His 48-year-old wife Alison is in an induced coma after also being shot in the
attack, and the family have flown over to be at her bedside. The couple would
have celebrated their anniversary today.

Tonight her brother Simon Boon read a statement to ITV Anglia saying: "I have
spoken to my nephew, James, and Philip Heathcote has now been identified and
confirmed as one of those who sadly died as a result of the shooting.

"Philip originally comes from Manchester and I am sure his family living there
will want to pay their own tributes. The thoughts of our family go out to them
all as we, together, grieve this awful loss."

Mr Boon added: "For 30 years, Philip has shown my sister love, care and loyalty
that was second to none.

"Philip was truly Allison's soulmate and they did everything together, sharing
the same interests life offered."

Mr Boon said his sister was "currently stable" but will remain in hospital in
Tunisia.

Earlier he said: "I love Allison with all of my heart and would do anything for
her, however here I am feeling helpless."

BBC

Philip Heathcote was killed in the atrocity whilst his wife, Alison, remains in
a coma Related articles  VIDEO: Footage shows astounding bravery of hotel
workers...  Tunisia terror: Killer 'didn't act alone' as British couple claim...

Other victims included Carly Lovett, 24, who was reportedly on holiday with her
family and fiancé in the popular tourist resort of Sousse when a gunman opened
fire on a beach on Friday afternoon.

Ms Lovett, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire, ran her own website where she
reviewed beauty products and was also a keen photographer.

Her fiancé Liam Moore is understood to have survived the attack, and it is
believed that the pair have been engaged since December.

The second British victim was yesterday named as Adrian Evans, a manager at the
gas services department at Sandwell Council.

His nephew, 19-year-old local football referee Joel Richards, was later named as
the third victim of the devastating attack.

Tragically, a third family member also died in the attack.

The Birmingham County FA paid tribute to Joel as a "a young, talented referee
with the world at his feet".

The University of Worcester student was described as "highly intelligent,
talented young man and an all-round outstanding person with a truly bright
future ahead".

Patrick Evans, who was 78 and Mr Evans' father and Mr Richards' grandfather, was
also among the dead.

The Evans family were fans of Walsall Football Club, who paid tribute to them by
posting a photo of the three men - and their 16-year-old nephew, Owen Evans, who
is reported to have helped comfort a victim in the aftermath of the shooting -
on their Twitter feed.

The League One side said they will lay scarves in tribute at their Banks's
Stadium on Monday.

IG

Ms Lovett was understood to be on holiday with family and her fiance

TWITTER

Walsall posted a tribute to fans Adrian Evans, grandfather Charles Evans and
brother Joel Richards

IG

Adrian Evans was named as the second victim

IG

Joel Richards was named as the third victimScott Chalkley, 42, of Derby, and his
partner, Sue Davey, also 42, of Tamworth, Staffordshire, were also killed in the
attacks.

Ms Davey and Mr Chalkley, who had been together for 18 months, were two days
into their holiday at the Imperial Marhaba, which they had booked as a
celebration after buying their first house together.

Mr Chalkley's son Ross Naylor had described his father as a "loving, typical
bloke".

Severn Trent Water, for whom Ms Davey and Mr Chalkley worked, said: "They were
much-loved by their colleagues.

"Sue and Scott had a passion to help others however they could, they cared
enormously for all those they worked with and were totally committed to our
customers and our company."

SWNS GROUP

Scott Chalkley and Sue Davey had just bought a house together

Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother in her 60s from Gateshead, Tyne & Wear, was another
victim identified in the attack.

Ms Burbidge's family paid tribute to the"most beautiful, amazing, caring and
gentle person in our lives".

Chloe Thompson said her grandmother was her "angel and best friend".

NORTH

Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother, was enjoying a holiday break in Tunisia at the
time of the attack

Bruce Wilkinson, 72, of Goole, Yorkshire also died in the attacks.

Mr Wilkinson's family said: "He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry
sense of humour. He was fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and
family alike."We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts."

SWNS

Retired worker Bruce Wilkinson had been enjoying a well-earned break

Married couple Jim, 66, and Ann McQuire, 63, from Cumbernauld, Lanarkshire, have
also been named among the dead.

Mr McQuire was a volunteer with the Boys' Brigade, and worked as a marine
engineer before retiring.

Tributes were paid to the McQuires, who had taken the holiday as a
post-retirement celebration.

Another victim of the horrific attack was Trudy Jones, of Blackwood, South
Wales, who had been on holiday with friends.

Her family described the 51-year-old as a "beautiful mother-of-four".

They said: "Our mother of all people didn't deserve this, such a caring person
who put everyone else before herself.

"She'll be missed by so many people. She was the rock of our family and kept us
all going. None of us have a clue how we're going to cope without her.

Her MP, Labour's Chris Evans, issued a statement saying: "The reality of this
horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our communities with the
news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those murdered.

"My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends at this difficult
time."

HANDOUT

Trudy Jones, a careworker and single mother, had been on holiday with friends

Another victim was Claire Windass, from Hull, who was on the beach with her
husband, Jim, when the attack happened.

Her husband survived and is reported to have returned home to the UK.

FACEBOOK

Claire Windass was on holiday with her husband, Jim

Engineer Stephen Mellor, 59, from Cornwall died shielding his wife Cheryl from
the beach gunfire.

Mrs Mellor, a retired nurse who is being treated a local hospital in Sousse,
said: "I was screaming at people to check him and someone looked and they said
he had no pulse. They said he was gone."

Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area of Suffolk, is believed to have died
instantly. His wife, who was with him, was injured but survived and has returned
to the UK.

SWNS

Stuart Cullen was killed in the beach massacre and his wife Christine was
injured

A Wiltshire couple are also believed to be among the dead.

Eileen Swannack, 70, and partner John Welch, 74, have been named locally as
victims of the beach attack.

The pair who had been together for eight years had come to "adore" the Sousse
resort.

SWNS

Eileen Swannack and her partner John Welch arrived at the beach resort last
Tuesday brightcove.createExperiences;

Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty is also believed to be among the dead.

Bishop Michael Smith called her death a "senseless killing".

Irish couple Laurence and Martina Hayes, both in their 50s, from county
Westmeath, were also tragically killed.

French and German victims have also been identified.

The devastating attack, which took place when a gunman opened fire on sunbathing
holidaymakers on a beach in Sousse, also left 36 people wounded.

Last night it emerged at least 30 Britons were among the 38 slaughtered by
jihadist gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

The Queen yesterday sent her "sincere condolences" to the families of those
killed in the Tunisian beach massacre.

Her Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh were said to have been "shocked" by the
attack and also offered their "deepest sympathy" to the injured.

All wounded Britons have been brought back to the UK, with four severely injured
holidaymakers flown home in an RAF C17 transport plane accompanied by "medevac"
teams.

They are being treated at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford, Plymouth and London.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'Marauding gunmen' storm the streets in mock terror attack

BYLINE: John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 336 words


POLICE staged a massive exercise in central London yesterday to help combat the
threat of a marauding terrorist attack like the Tunisia massacre.

In the Scotland Yard simulation, actors posed as the victims of a pair of gunmen
who then fled into the Underground network.

The exercise, code-named Strong Tower, had been planned months before last
Friday's shooting spree on a beach in which 38 people died, up to 30 of them
British holidaymakers.

But the gun rampage in the Tunisian resort of Sousse has heightened fears of
similar atrocities on UK streets.

The Charlie Hebdo murders in Paris, the hostage siege in Sydney and the 2008
Mumbai killings influenced planning for Strong Tower. It began with "terrorists"
opening fire outside the disused Strand Tube station close to Covent Garden and
Waterloo Bridge. The gunmen escaped as armed officers raced to the scene.

Paramedics were seen carrying pretend casualties from the Tube station, sirens
wailed and a nearby side street was cordoned off.

The exercise, which continues today, involved more than 1,000 officers as well
as firefighters and ambulance crews. Officials from the Cabinet Office, NHS and
the Ministry of Defence were also involved, as were personnel from the Home
Office and Army, including a small SAS unit.

The majority of those taking part had no idea what they would face. Strong Tower
is believed to be the largest operation of its type ever staged in Britain.

But police stressed it was not in response to intelligence about an imminent
attack.

Met Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said they were planning to "make
sure that should the worst happen we are ready - and we will be".

It came amid police concern about the growing number of automatic weapons,
particularly the Czech-made Skorpion submachine gun, being smuggled into the
country by criminals.

It is feared street gangs will forge links with jihadists and sell them guns
like the Skorpion, a favourite weapon with drug barons for its compact size and
1,000 rounds-a-minute firepower.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed police help victim, played by an actress, from scene of the
simulated attackA 'casualty' receives treatment on the pavement during
yesterday's realistic anti-terror exercise in London

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Carly Lovett who was killed in the Tunisia terror attack has been flown back to
the UK

LENGTH: 57  words


Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, was among the first of the British tourists
killed in the terrorist attack in Tunisia to arrive back in the UK.

Eight coffins were flown by an RAF C17 from Tunis to RAF Brize Norton, in
Oxfordshire, where they will be taken to a chapel of rest.

It is thought 30 of the 38 victims of the attack are British.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:08 PM GMT

Bodies of Stockton-born former footballer Denis Thwaites and his wife arrive
back in UK;
The bodies of Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine who died in the Tunisian beach
terror attack arrived at RAF brize Norton this afternoon

BYLINE: By Mike Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 336 words


The bodies of a Stockton-born former footballer and his wife who were gunned
down in the Tunisian terror attacks have arrived back in the UK.

A convoy of ambulances took the bodies of eight Britons, including Denis
Thwaites and his wife Elaine, to Tunis Carthage military airport this morning
ahead of an RAF flight back to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

The C-17 military transport aircraft touched down at Brize Norton this afternoon
in the first of several repatriation flights to take eplace in the coming days.

Mr Thwaites, 70, and his wife Elaine, 69, died after gunman Seifeddine Rezgui,
23, targeted Western tourists in an attack last week. A total of 30 Britons are
believed to be among the 38 shot dead.

The bodies were greeted by a military guard of honour shortly after 3pm today .

After starting his career at Stockton Juniors, winger Mr Thwaites moved to
Birmingham aged 16 and starred for their first team, signing his first
professional contract a year later.

Birmingham City will mark his death at either the pre-season fixture against
Leicester on August 1 or the Championship curtain-raiser against Reading on
August 8.

A club spokesman said: "We will be paying tribute to him at a future game.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family.

"The club also offers its condolences to all who are mourning loved ones due to
this atrocity."

The couple, who lived in Blackpool, were staying at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

Denis represented England at schoolboy level but retired in 1972 aged just 27.

He later moved with his family to Blackpool, where he worked as a hospital
porter.

On Monday, it was confirmed that the couple had both lost their lives.

Writing on Facebook, the couple's daughter Lindsey and son-in-law Daniel
Clifford, from Blackpool, said: "There is now a void in our lives that will
never be filled, but your thoughts and words will keep Lindsey and I strong at
this most difficult time. Thank you.

"Mum and Dad were the kindest, caring, loving parents any daughter could wish
for. Rest in peace now my angels."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 1:18 AM GMT

London police and emergency services take part in mock terrorist attack;
Operation Strong Tower gauges potential response to attack on tube network, with
police officers, firefighters, paramedics and actors involved

BYLINE: James Meikle

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 401 words


A simulated terror attack on London's tube network tested the capital's
emergency response capabilities on Tuesday, five days after a gunman killed at
least 30 Britons on a beach in Tunisia.

Armed men in balaclavas were seen on a London street, "victims" were treated by
emergency services and sounds of gunfire emerged from a disused part of the
underground network during the drill.

Related: Police hold biggest ever terror training drill in London - in pictures

The exercise, planned since January, was sometimes "noisy and visible" as the
Metropolitan police had warned, though the force stressed there had been no
intelligence about any imminent attack.

The two-day operation, which began on Tuesday and is codenamed Strong Tower, is
designed to test responses to such an attack. London's largest ever
counter-terror drill included intelligence officers, transport services and the
Ministry of Defence among 14 different organisations and agencies.

The Metsays it now arrests on average one person a day for possible terror
offences and believes it has disrupted some "very serious" plots.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Met's commissioner, said before the exercise started
that mistakes were bound to be made "but best we make them today in an
environment in which we don't have terrorists than make those mistakes when we
do."

Related: Scotland Yard creates SAS-style unit to counter threat of terrorist gun
attack

The Met tweeted updates about the training on #999exercise, which involved
police officers playing the part of armed terrorists "attacking" members of the
public.

Paramedics and fire officers could also be seen carrying casualties, played by
actors, out of the station on stretchers while sirens wailed in the surrounding
streets. The simulation involved the use of the disused tube station Aldwych and
the closure of Surrey Street, running from t he Strand to the Thames.

The Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris, the hostage siege in Sydney, and the Mumbai
terror attacks are among events that influenced planning for the test. The Met's
deputy assistant commissioner Maxine de Brunner, asked about Friday's attack in
Tunisia, said it was likely to be taken into account in future.

"Sadly, London is no stranger to terrorism," she said. "Given the changing
nature of the very real terrorism threat and events around the world we need to
constantly adapt our plans and prepare for new or emerging threats."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Tunisian terror attack dead to be repatriated

BYLINE: Michael Settle UK Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 649 words


EMOTIONS will be running high today when the first bodies of victims killed in
the Tunisia terror attack are brought back home to their loved ones.

The first flight is due to touch down this afternoon at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire, where families are expected to attend the difficult process of
repatriation.

The inquest is to be overseen as a single inquiry by the West London coroner and
it is thought a series of post-mortems will have to be undertaken before their
bodies can be released for funerals.

Downing Street confirmed 24 British victims out of an expected total of 30 had
now been fully identified. Work is ongoing with the Tunisian authorities to
confirm the identities of the other six UK nationals. The repatriation process
could take a number of days.

A spokeswoman for David Cameron said: "We are in discussion with the Scottish
Government and the families about how this process works," stressing how all the
UK victims would receive the "full respect they deserve" during the process of
repatriation.

A further two Scottish victims of the massacre at the beach in Sousse last
Friday have been formally identified as Billy Graham, 51, and his wife Lisa, 50,
from Bankfoot in Perthshire. The identities of Jim McQuire, 66, and his wife
Ann, 63, from Cumbernauld, were confirmed earlier.

John Swinney, the Deputy First Minister and MSP for North Perthshire, paid
tribute to the Grahams, his constituents, whom, he said, were simply enjoying a
relaxing holiday when they became victims of "a wicked crime".

"There are no words that can explain the awfulness of this act. We must all
remain resolute in our determination to defeat terrorism," he declared. First
Minister Nicola Sturgeon also offered her "deepest condolences" to the families.

Meantime, all of the wounded, thought to number about 35, have now returned to
the UK; including four of the more seriously injured, who were medically
evacuated by the RAF. They are undergoing treatment in hospitals in Birmingham,
Oxford, Plymouth and London. At least one person is believed to have
life-threatening injuries.

Graphic details of the terror           incident continued to be told by
witnesses. Paul Short from Northumberland recalled how he saw the terrorist less
than 50 metres away with the gun strung on his back. He was "taking pictures of
the bodies and laughing", said Mr Short.

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, chaired another meeting of the Cobra
emergency committee, attended by representatives of the Metropolitan Police and
the security services as well as Mr Swinney via video-link.

Afterwards, the Secretary of State said the spread of Islamic State into Libya
had helped sow    the seeds for the Tunisia beach attack.

His comments came as it was revealed the gunman - 23-year-old student Seifeddine
Rezgui, who murdered 38 people before he was shot dead by police - had attended
a terrorist training camp in Libya  at the same time as the attackers who had
killed 22 people at the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis in March.

It was also suggested Rezgui had links to Saifallah Ben Hassine, a fanatic based
in London for at least three years and a follower of the controversial cleric
Abu Qatada.

"The thing that has changed                 is the spread of IS into the
ungoverned territory of Libya, a neighbouring country to Tunisia," said Mr
Hammond. While Rezgui is thought to have acted alone in the beach shooting, the
Tunisian authorities believe he had accomplices, who helped him; providing
weapons and logistical support. They are quizzing seven suspected associates.

On Friday, as well as the minute's silence across the UK at noon - precisely a
week after the terror attack - Downing Street confirmed all UK Government
buildings would fly their flags at half-mast that day as a sign of respect;
Buckingham Palace also intended to fly the royal standard at half-mast, it said.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  July 1, 2015
                                 First Edition

Police stage London attack in largest terror training exercise;
SECURITY

BYLINE: Henry Austin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 224 words


Mock terrorists stalked the streets of central London firing guns into the air
and throwing grenade-like devices into a tube station as part of the largest
ever rehearsal for a terrorism attack in the city.

More than 1,000 police officers and soldiers, including SAS troops, responded to
the series of rolling staged attacks on locations across the capital. The
exercises used volunteers posing as members of the public, fake blood and even
fake severed limbs.

The operation, codenamed Strong Tower, focused on the disused Aldwych Tube
station. A siege later played out at a disused building on the Albert Embankment
in Lambeth.

The exercise continues today and will end in the afternoon, but is closed to the
public.

It comes as efforts continued to identify British holidaymakers killed by a
gunman on a Tunisian beach on Friday. The Metropolitan Police insisted the
operation had been sixmonths in the planning and the two were not related.

The force's chief, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, said that one of the objectives of
the exercise was to "learn from the mistakes we're bound to make... Best we make
them today."

Deputy assistant commissioner Maxine de Brunner added that the Charlie Hebdo
attack in Paris in January had an "influence" on the test. "The exercise is
designed to test coordination of a multi-site marauding terrorist attack," she
added.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:25 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Gunman 'trained at terror camp in Libya with Bardo museum
attackers';
Seifeddine Rezgui was not known to authorities before his massacre on Friday

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 562 words


The gunman who massacred 38 tourists at a Tunisian hotel trained at the same
Libyan terror camp as two militants who carried out the Bardo museum attack, it
has emerged.

One of Tunisia's top security officials announced today that Seifeddine Rezgui,
23, was coached at the same time as Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui.

They gunned down 20 tourists as they visited the famous museum in March, opening
fire as they got off a bus and taking visitors hostage in a three-hour siege.

Rafik Chelli said they were trained at a camp near the western Libyan town of
Sabratha in January, when Rezgui was also there after passing illegally over the
border.

Police admitted they had no idea that the network management masters student was
a terrorist threat but Rezgui had been part of an Isis "sleeper" cell for
several years, it has been claimd.

But a man who knew him at l'Institut Superior des Sciences Appliquees et de
Technologie (Issat), in Kairouan, claimed Rezgui was part of a five-man cell and
had been a jihadist for at least four years.

Wassim Bel-a-Del told <em class="italic">Sky News<em class="italic" />that he
was an Isis "sleeper" agent and that the group co-ordinated his attack on
Friday.

"I know the group he is working with; it is a group of terrorists," he said.

"There are some guys who go to Syria and come back and go on to study in the
same university, and there are others who go and die in Syria."

Read more: Did the killer get his training in Libya?Authorities 'sure' Tunisia
gunman did not act alone Questions over reports of second gunman in Tunisia

Mr Bel-a-Del said Rezgui was part of al-Qaeda's Syrian affiliate Jahbat al-Nusra
in 2011 but switched allegiance as Isis' power grew because he "loved everything
they stood for".

He added that the student trained in Libya with a terrorist group called Ansar
al-Sharia, which has partly pledged allegiance to Isis and also has links to
al-Qaeda, and believes Rezgui was taught to "disguise" his radicalisation. In
pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

The gunman was linked to Saifallah Ben Hassine, an Ansar al-Sharia leader who
was based in London for at least three years in the 1990s and became a disciple
of deported cleric Abu Qatada, the Daily Mail reported.

Police in Tunisia are questioning seven of his suspected associates who were
arrested in three different cities.

Three of those detained were young men who had shared a house with Rezgui in the
city of Kairouan.

Despite conflicting witness claims of a second gunman who they believed also
shot tourists at the Imperial Marhaba hotel, Tunisian authorities have insisted
Rezgui  acted alone during the attack, although accomplices may have provided
him with weapons and "logistical support".

Around 17 British and Irish victims of the attack have so far been named and the
death toll for the UK could rise to 30, making it the deadliest terror attack on
the country's citizens since the 7 July bombings a decade ago.

Kim Sengupta, The Independent's defence correspondent, said Rezgui had the
opportunity to travel to the neighbouring country earlier this year during the
spring break from his studies.

"There was no Libyan entry stamp in his passport but that doesn't mean
anything," he added.

"The fact he was part of a cell seems quite logical...it's quite clear he didn't
do it by himself."

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:25 AM GMT

Tunisian hotel shooting: Police release photos of terror attack suspected
accomplices;
Rafkhe Talari and Bin Abdallah are both wanted by Tunisian authorities in
connection with the massacre

BYLINE: Jessica Ware

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 181 words


Tunisian police have released images of two men being sought in connection with
last week's beach attack that left 39 people dead.

The photos are of two men identified as Rafkhe Talari and Bin Abdallah, though
their connection to the deceased gunman Seifeddine Rezgui is not clear.
Authorities said they did not believe either of the men shot tourists.

Rezgui, 23, who opened fire on a beach in the popular holiday destination of
Sousse last Friday, appears to have been part of an Isis sleeper cell.

Reports from Sky News have suggested he was part of a five-man cell, though
Tunisian police have not said whether they believe the suspects identified in
the new photographs to have been part of this.

The UK government confirmed that 21 people died in the terror attack but warned
that the number could rise to 30. There will be a minute's silence later in the
week.

Despite conflicting reports of a second gunman also shooting tourists, all
tunisian authorities have said is that accomplices may have provided Rezgui him
with weapons and "logistical support".

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:25 AM GMT

Wimbledon 2015: Malek Jaziri pleads for tourists not to stay away from Tunisia
following terror attack;
World No 83 makes plea following his 6-7, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3, 5-7 defeat to
Australian James Duckworth

BYLINE: Ian Herbert

SECTION: TENNIS

LENGTH: 347 words


Tunisia's top tennis player at Wimbledon has condemned Isis terrorists for
attempting to destroy his nation's fragile economy and pleaded with tourists not
to desert the country.

Amid heightened tournament security in the wake of Friday's attack on the beach
at Sousse, where 30 Britons are thought to have been killed, Malek Jaziri said
that the despair poverty breeds in the country had played a part in young
Tunisians being radicalised.

"It happens more easily where more people are poor," Jaziri said. "I don't know
how but that's when [insurgents] infect them."

After his tournament ended at the first round with a five-set defeat to
Australian James Duckworth 6-7, 2-6,  6-3, 6-3, 5-7, Jaziri asked tourists not
to desert the fledgling democracy and said that Tunisia's border with Libya must
be tightened to prevent more atrocities.

Wimbledon 2015 - in pictures

"This is the moment when Tunisia needs people around," said Jaziri, one of only
three Tunisians at Wimbledon. "Our economy is based on tourism. We've never had
a problem with religion. [People] think we have a lot of extremism, but all
religions live together, so we have to contain all these things and be more
strict. Hopefully in the future it can be better."

Jaziri, who is ranked 83rd in the world, was at the centre of controversy last
year when the ATP World Tour investigated whether he had deliberately withdrawn
from a first-round match in Montpellier in order to avoid playing Israeli Dudi
Sela.

He was judged not to have done, though suspicion had been aroused by his
withdrawal from the Tashkent Challenger tournament in 2013 before his match
against Israel's Amir Weintraub.

Tunisia was ultimately suspended from last year's Davis Cup after it was found
that its tennis federation had ordered Jaziri to pull out. Jaziri also withdrew
from the doubles in Montpellier where he was due to team up with Marc Lopez and
face Israeli Yoni Erlich and partner Frantisek Cermak in the quarter-finals.

This Friday's play at Wimbledon will be delayed as part of the minute's silence
in memory of those who died in Sousse.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:24 AM GMT

Tunisia attack proves we cannot stop terrorists carrying out operations against
Britons in Muslim countries;
At home, the police and MI5 have been much more effective, disrupting 40 terror
plots in the 10 years since 7/7 and four in the past year alone

BYLINE: Robert Verkaik

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 521 words


David Cameron's promise of a "full spectrum" response to the indiscriminate
murder brought by Islamist terrorism has done nothing to reduce the risk of
further attacks.

The horrific events in Tunisia proved what our counter-terrorism chiefs have
known for some time: we cannot stop terrorists carrying out operations in Muslim
countries with established terror networks.

At home, the police and MI5 have been much more effective, disrupting 40 terror
plots in the 10 years since 7/7 and four in the past year alone. But the
security threat level remains at "severe", which means an attack on the UK is
still "highly likely".

"Operation Strong Tower" terror training exercise in London, conducted on 30
June and 1 July, demonstrates how much this threat has evolved since the 9/11
attacks. Security advisers have to plan for possible assaults from the sky, on
our underground transport systems and now the increasingly likely Mumbai-style
operation in which determined gunmen attempt to massacre the civilian population
and expect to die in the process.

The SAS has long prepared to combat this kind of terror scenario on the streets
of London. Now reports suggest that the Metropolitan Police has trained its own
special forces unit. Our other cities must make sure that they, too, are
properly prepared for this kind of roving terrorism.

What the security agencies fear most is a home-grown attack carried out by an
extremist with no previous record radicalised on the internet.

In pictures: Mock terror attack in London

Armed police and soldiers are a very reassuring presence on British streets but
they can play no role in the battle of ideologies. It is in this realm of the
"existential" conflict that Isis excels, combining an unmatched command of
social media with a powerful message that promises an authentic Islamic life in
the "caliphate".

Since the US-led coalition began its bombing campaign against the group last
year, the militants have increased the territory they hold. At the same time up
to 2,000 British citizens may have gone to join the fighting. And barely a week
goes by without a family reporting a relative setting out for Syria, Iraq or
Somalia.

Read more: Cameron: 'These attacks can happen anywhere'Gunmen kill 'at least 27'
in shooting at seaside town in TunisiaHave US tactics only helped to make
Islamists more powerful?Tunisia shooting: What we know about the British victims

The failure to win this war of ideologies is partly reflected by the ratcheting
up of the political language. At the same time the Government is unveiling
controversial policies to beef up the so called "snooper's charter" and place a
duty on nursery school teachers to report signs of radicalisation among
children.

The macho language and get-tough policies are counter-productive and will
achieve only one thing - the alienation of the very community the Government
says is crucial to beating the ideologies of hate and terrorism.

Operation Strong Tower will help the police and emergency services prepare for a
terrorist attack - but it won't do anything to stop someone from deciding to
launch an attack in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Extremists barred from campuses in security drive;
Tunisia terror attack Schools, prisons and councils now have statutory duty to
prevent terrorism

BYLINE: OLIVER WRIGHT WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


Universities and colleges will be forced to vet external speakers for
"extremist" views as part of a renewed crackdown on radicalisation, ministers
have indicated.

Earlier this year the Coalition backed away from plans to force higher education
institutions to ban so-called non-violent extremists from speaking on campuses
following objections from the Liberal Democrats and opposition from the House of
Lords.

But yesterday Downing Street said that the plans would be revived in the next
few months as part of the Government's wider crackdown on radicalisation. "We
are looking at what more we should be doing in terms of universities," said Mr
Cameron's spokeswoman. "The Prime Minister's has made clear that we need to
tackle extremism and how the Government can work on this."

The move comes as ministers announced that from today councils, prisons, NHS
trusts and schools will be required by law to take action to stop people being
drawn into terrorism. As part of the Counter Terrorism and Security Act most
public bodies will be under a statutory duty to identify and report those
vulnerable to radicalisation.

Schools will need to demonstrate they are protecting pupils from being drawn
into terrorism by having "robust" policies in place to identify children at
risk, and intervening as appropriate. They will also be expected to protect
children from terrorist and extremist material when they access the internet at
school.

Prisons will also be expected to carry out cell-sharing risk assessments for
inmates and vet material coming into jails.

The security minister John Hayes said recent incidents of teenagers secretly
leaving the UK to join Isis has demonstrated "starkly and tragically" the
dangers of radicalisation and the "devastating impact" it can have on
individuals, families and communities.

"The new Prevent duty is about protecting people from the pernicious influence
of extremist ideas that are used to legitimise terrorism," he said. "The new
duty will make sure key bodies work in partnership, as part of our approach to
bring the country together to tackle extremism."

The Education Secretary Nicky Morgan said schools in England and Wales would
receive guidance on identifying pupils in danger of radicalisation. She
suggested displaying an extreme intolerance of homosexuality was an example of
the kind of behaviour that could cause concern. "In this debate we need to have
a measured discussion. Schools are perfectly capable; they do this all the
time," she said.

But Christine Blower, general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said
the Government's policy was already "causing significant nervousness and
confusion among teachers".

"The jury is out as to whether extra statutory requirements are the most
effective way to help young people stay safe, think critically, or reject
engagement with groups who advocate violence," she said. "If pupil well-being
and safety is the aim, the Prevent strategy is felt by many teachers to be
counter-productive."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The making of a killer;
* Terrorist visited Libya in January and March this year for military training *
Disgust at events in Syria, where two of his friends died, turned shy student
into radical * 23-year-old made final 10-second call on his mobile before beach
massacre SPECIAL INVESTIGATION Tunisia terror attack 'He was in disguise - he
put on a mask to stay hidden'

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA IN KAIROUAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words


At 11.53 on Friday morning, Seifeddine Rezgui stood on the beach at Port El
Kantaoui in Sousse and made a 10-second telephone call on his white Samsung
Galaxy mobile phone. The tall, handsome young man knelt down, produced a
Kalashnikov AK-47 from within a rolled-up beach umbrella and test-fired a couple
of rounds into the sand. Then he began the task of killing Western tourists.

Who exactly he had been calling before he began his spree is not yet known. But
over the next 47 minutes Rezgui, a 23-year-old student, murdered 38 people, all
of them foreign holidaymakers and most of them British: he also shot a Tunisian
woman, and then immediately apologised to her. Pursued by hotel employees, all
of them Tunisians showing extraordinary bravery, he ran to the sea and threw his
phone into the waves. Soon afterwards, he was shot dead.

The Samsung was fished out of the water by the police at just after 6am the
following morning. It remains unclear just how much data has been retrieved by
investigators and how much has been lost. But what is clear is that Rezgui had
managed, with remarkable success, to conceal his links with Islamist terrorism
from the public gaze for a very long time while planning his lethal mission.

Friends say he had travelled to Libya for military training. Tunisia's Interior
Secretary, Rafik Chelli, said yesterday that Rezgui had visited the neighbouring
country in January, travelling with fellow jihadists who afterwards carried out
the attack that targeted tourists at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, leaving 22 dead.

The friends say that Rezgui visited Libya again in March, during the academic
spring vacation, when he could easily disappear from college at Issat
(L'Institut Superior des Sciences et de Technologie) in Kairouan, where he had
been taking a course in electronic network management.

He returned to his Master's degree course after finishing what was almost
certainly his final combat training across the border, and sat his end-of-term
exams. He passed with a grade of 11.76 out of 20 and picked up his certificate
on 29 May, as the college was closing for the summer.

At the same time, Rezgui was preparing to leave the house he shared with six
other young men in the city's Sidi Belgacem district, next to the Mosque of the
Seven Virgins; a low-key place of worship used by local people in the
impoverished area. All the tenants simply disappeared one night. The neighbours
they left behind had, however, been given a rare glimpse of the double life led
by Rezgui for at least the past three years.

To most of his classmates and staff at Issat, and to a wide array of
acquaintances, Rezgui had appeared to be a well-adjusted, if unremarkable,
modern young man; not particularly interested in religion or politics - clean
shaven, with a fondness for techno music, breakdancing and Real Madrid.

But at Sidi Belgacem he and his companions led secretive lives, refusing to
socialise with other residents and staying indoors for long hours. A group of
bearded Salafists came at times to hold prayers at the mosque, which had been
left unsupervised, its elderly imam absent for months. Then they would all
disappear together behind the front door of Rezgui's house.

These were the men, fellow believers in establishing a caliphate with a sword,
of Rezgui's real world. Some had trained with him in Libya. Three had travelled
to Syria - where Tunisia provides the largest contingent of foreign jihadists -
and two of them eventually died there.

Last night Tunisian authorities released photographs of two men being sought in
connection with Friday's attack, identified as "Bin Abdallah and Rafkhe Talari".
Whether they were among the visitors to, or residents of, the house is not
immediately clear.

What shaped the life of Abu Yahya al-Qayrawan, the nom-de-guerre given by Isis
to its latest poster boy?

Rezgui was born on 29 August 1992 in Gaafour, an austere, conservative town 50
miles south-west of the capital Tunis, which fell on hard times when nearby zinc
and lead mines closed a year after his birth. He was known for his hot temper as
a young schoolboy and his level of aggression rose after a brother, aged 14, was
killed in a lightning strike,

His father, Hakim Rezgui, who was arrested but then released by police after the
Sousse murders, is adamant: "My son was a good boy, he did not have any problems
with anyone, over religion, or anything else. It all went wrong after he left
home; he got new friends, evil people who twisted his mind, planted evil
thoughts," he told the streams of international media arriving at his door.

Rezgui's circle of friends changed in Kairouan along with his changing view of
the world, as he embraced Islamists who expressed their views in harsh,
uncompromising rhetoric. Two friends who kept in touch with him described the
transformation. Neither of the men wanted their full names disclosed, fearing
the attention both of Islamist extremists and of the security forces.

They said Rezgui was elated, as were so many young people, by the fall of
Tunisia's strong man Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali four years ago, in the opening
chapter of the Arab Spring. "But then he began to get angry, bitter, more
religious," said Taha, 25, who lives in Kairouan.

"He began to talk about how the end of the dictator should have been followed by
the establishment of a more pure society upholding Islam, but he saw nothing
improving, things just getting worse.

"By the end of the year we saw him openly hanging around with the Salafists,
people who felt the same way as him. But there was another side to him: he did
not grow a beard, he still talked about sports, mixed with people who drank,
talked with girls. Many of us thought he would come back to normal life."

But Yassin, 26, who had himself recently flirted with Islamism, maintained that
Rezgui had already crossed the line. "He suddenly began to do this 'cool dude'
thing, overdoing it really. All these blogs about techno, then the dancing. He
would be with people who drank. But it was too much, it didn't make sense,
especially because privately he would sometimes talk about his real feelings. I
think he trusted me because I was looking into religion myself at the time."

Taha nodded in agreement. "He was someone in disguise, he put a mask on to keep
himself hidden," he said.

Rezgui, according to the two men, was appalled by the savage retribution of
Bashar al-Assad's regime when the Syrian uprising began, railing at the West for
betraying Syrians while praising the al-Qaeda-affiliated Jabhat al-Nusra, whose
fighters joined the Syrian opposition, and then Isis as the right answers for
Islam.

Rezgui did not travel to Syria. But, according to Taha and Yassin, he went to
Libya during the revolution against Muammar Gaddafi, accompanying men who were
smuggling arms to the rebels, and may have taken part in some action. "It was
for everyone in Libya easy to fire a gun at the time and no one could be blamed
for fighting Gaddafi," said Yassin. "I think the real thing, the training, came
in later visits. First he was trained by Ansar al-Sharia [an al-Qaeda affiliate]
and then by Daesh [Isis]. In the meantime he carried on with his act."

A Facebook page believed to belong to him peppered with postings about music and
football, occasionally also featured postings in support of Isis. But otherwise
Rezgui's act was a very good one. The Tunisian authorities admit he was not on
any watch list and was free to plan multiple murders. After eventually shooting
him dead, they established his identity only through a student card in a pocket
of his blood-soaked clothing.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Tributes to victims as RAF flight brings first bodies home;
Twenty-two Britons identified among dead, with another eight expected Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: YASMINE RYAN IN TUNIS AND DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 783 words


The bodies of Britons killed in the Tunisian beach massacre are to begin
returning home today, when an RAF flight lands at Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

The Foreign Secretary, Philip Hammond, confirmed that 22 British victims have
been identified, while officials said they believe a further eight UK nationals
are among the dead but still to be identified.

Tunisian health officials said last night that the identities of 25 Britons had
now been confirmed. The victims will be brought to west London where an inquest
into their deaths will be opened before the bodies are released to their next of
kin. A single inquest covering all the British victims is to be opened by the
West London Coroner.

Further repatriation flights are expected over the course of the week as bodies
are released by the Tunisian authorities, Mr Hammond said yesterday.

Some of the families have been frustrated at the slow pace of identification.
Under Tunisian law, after visual recognition, the identity of the dead must be
confirmed by DNA analysis and dental records. Efforts have been slowed by the
time taken for dental records to arrive from the UK.

"It has been very difficult for everyone. We have very rigorous procedures [for
the identification]. It's a legal responsibility to prevent any errors," said Dr
Anissa Bouasker, a psychologist who has worked with relatives of the victims of
both the Sousse and Bardo Museum attacks.

Among those formally identified yesterday was John Stollery, 58, a social worker
from Nottinghamshire, who was on holiday with his wife, Cheryl, and son when he
was killed.

He had worked with children in care for Nottinghamshire County Council for 33
years. Cheryl Stollery said: "John was special; he made a difference and gave
his best to others. We, his family, are proud of him and deeply saddened that he
was taken from us in such a horrific and tragic way. We still had a long life to
live with plans and dreams for our future together. We love and miss him
terribly and nothing will ever be the same again."

A Crawley couple, Janet and John Stocker, aged 63 and 72, were also confirmed
victims. In a statement their family said: "They were both young at heart and
enjoyed all that life could offer, and especially enjoyed travelling to new
places, exploring and appreciating local cultures, and they died together doing
what they enjoyed most: sunbathing side by side."

David Thompson, 80, a retired scientist from Tadley, Hampshire, is also believed
to have been killed in the attack. The retired Atomic Weapons Establishment
scientist has been described by his neighbours as a "wonderful man".

Police Scotland yesterday confirmed the deaths of four Scots killed on the
beach. Two, James McQuire, aged 66, and his wife Anne, 63, were from
Cumbernauld, north Lanarkshire. Also among the victims were Lisa and William
Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth. The couple were celebrating Mrs Graham's 50th
birthday.

Trudy Jones, 51, a care home worker from Blackwood in South Wales, was named as
another as those killed. Gwent Police said Ms Jones was a divorced single mother
of four on holiday with friends. Her family described her as their "beautiful
mother".

All seriously injured Britons have now been flown out of Tunisia. Among them,
Allison Heathcote, of Felixstowe, Suffolk, was operated on at Birmingham's Queen
Elizabeth Hospital. She was shot five times while her husband Philip, 52, was
killed in the attack. The couple had gone to Tunisia to celebrate their 30th
wedding anniversary.

A spokesman for the hospital trust said the 48-year-old had undergone five hours
of surgery after suffering multiple gunshot wounds - three to her torso and two
to her right arm and shoulder. The hospital described her condition as critical
but stable.

The other injured Britons are being treated at John Radcliffe Hospital in
Oxford, Derriford Hospital in Plymouth and St Mary's Hospital in London, said
Downing Street.

Mr Hammond revealed yesterday that the gunman responsible for the beach massacre
attended a terror training camp in Libya at the same time as the attackers who
killed 22 people at the Bardo Museum in the capital Tunis in March.

He blamed the spread of Isis in neighbouring Libya for the rapidly deteriorating
security situation in Tunisia.

The Foreign Secretary said co-operation with the Tunisian officials would be
stepped up to protect Western tourists.

His comments came as a major counter-terrorism exercise was carried out in
London to ensure emergency services are ready "should the worst happen", the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said.

A mock terrorist firearms attack was staged in the capital to test the response
to a Tunisian-style mass shooting.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

This will deal with an attack - but not stop it;
Tunisia terror attack Analysis

BYLINE: ROBERT VERKAIK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 473 words


David Cameron's promise of a "full spectrum" response to the indiscriminate
murder brought by Islamist terrorism has done nothing to reduce the risk of
further attacks.

The horrific events in Tunisia proved what our counter-terrorism chiefs have
known for some time: we cannot stop terrorists carrying out operations in Muslim
countries with established terror networks.

At home, the police and MI5 have been much more effective, disrupting 40 terror
plots in the 10 years since 7/7 and four in the past year alone. But the
security threat level remains at "severe", which means an attack on the UK is
still "highly likely".

Yesterday and today's "Operation Strong Tower" terror training exercise in
London, demonstrates how much this threat has evolved since the 9/11 attacks.
Security advisers have to plan for possible assaults from the sky, on our
underground transport systems and now the increasingly likely Mumbai-style
operation in which determined gunmen attempt to massacre the civilian population
and expect to die in the process.

The SAS has long prepared to combat this kind of terror scenario on the streets
of London. Now reports suggest that the Metropolitan Police has trained its own
special forces unit?. Our other cities must make sure that they, too, are
properly prepared for thi?s kind of roving terrorism.

What the security agencies fear most is a home-grown attack carried out by an
extremist with no previous record radicalised on the internet.

Armed police and soldiers are a very reassuring presence on British streets but
they can play no role in the battle of ideologies. It is in this realm of the
"existential" conflict that Isis excels, combining an unmatched command of
social media with a powerful message that promises an authentic Islamic life in
the "caliphate".

Since the US-led coalition began its bombing campaign against the group last
year, the militants have increased the territory they hold. At the same time up
to 2,000 British citizens may have gone to join the fighting. And barely a week
goes by without a family reporting a relative setting out for Syria, Iraq or
Somalia.

The failure to win this war of ideologies is partly reflected by the ratcheting
up of the political language. At the same time the Government is unveiling
controversial policies to beef up the so called "snooper's charter" and place a
duty on nursery school teachers to report signs of radicalisation among
children.

The macho language and get-tough policies are counter-productive and will
achieve only one thing - the alienation of the very community the Government
says is crucial to beating the ideologies of hate and terrorism.

Operation Strong Tower will help the police and emergency services prepare for a
terrorist attack - but it won't do anything to stop someone from deciding to
launch an attack in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Tunisia terrorist cell promises more attacks in video

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1063 words


Port El Kantaoui, the tourist complex 10km to the north of Sousse where
23-year-old Seifeddine Rezgui gunned down 39 tourists, is deserted.

On the outskirts, a novelty train crawls along the roadside; empty but for two
perplexed-looking middle-aged tourists. On the pristine white sands of the beach
where Rezgui had rampaged, the remaining tourists make their way to the site of
the massacre, carrying flowers and makeshift signs of hope and consolation.

The carnage Rezgui unleashed on Friday has left an indelible mark. For Tunisia s
tourist industry, struggling to reassert itself after a similar attack at the
capital s Bardo museum in March, this slaughter is a body blow. For the people
of Tunisia, conditioned and proud of a long history of secular politics and
religious moderation, the 39 dead on Sousse s beaches stand as a bleak affront
to everything they have striven for since the 2011 Jasmine Revolution.

However, for the security services of Tunisia and those connected to them, this
latest atrocity not only marks the arrival of the Islamic State (IS) on Tunisia
s shores, but it also carries with it the sure promise of further violence to
come from sources they are not equipped to predict.

In Rezgui s former home, the small, poverty-riven town of Gaafour in Tunisia s
north-west, friends and family are struggling to understand how the
football-loving and polite student, who had never left Tunisia, could have
committed such an atrocity.

He was good, good, good!  Monia Riahi, a neighbour and family friend said.  I ve
known him since he was small. He was never in trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he
was brainwashed or something.

To all extents and purposes, Rezgui was anonymous   unknown to the security
services and apparently unsuspected by those who knew him.

Some blame the local mosque, a stronghold of Tunisia s ultra-conservative
Salafist community; others see his time at Kairouan University, where he studied
aviation, as the source of his radicalisation.

Others point to Rezgui s social media history, a dark testimony to his
fascination with jihadi violence, as well as his means of communicating with the
legions of Tunisian fighters engaged with the Islamic State, as the motivating
factor in this  lone wolf s  rampage.

However, for the mourning families of the dead and wounded, Rezgui s motivation
will have little meaning.

Scott Atran is the director of research in anthropology at the Centre National
de la Recherche Scientifique in Paris and senior research fellow at Oxford
University.

So many guys radicalise because they can universalise their own personal, often
frustrated, aspirations with something that is adventurous, glorious, and
seemingly sublime,  he says.

The conversion of personal problems into universal moral outrage and willingness
to kill, and die killing, perfect strangers innocent of direct harm to others,
much less to that person, is what Isis is all about. With that kind of brutal,
sublime commitment, even failure is victory.

Rezgui s targets were clear   Tunisia s desperately needed foreign tourists and
the money and cultural mores they bring. Witnesses even reported him telling
Tunisians to get out of his way as he continued his onslaught.

Tourists and tourism have been clearly the target of the attack, similarly to
the March events at the Bardo,  said Ludovico Carlino, Middle East and North
Africa analyst at security group IHS Country Risk.

This is in line with the current jihadi strategy in Tunisia of targeting both a
pillar of the country s economy, to undermine the secular government, and
Western tourists, deemed by jihadists as  kuffar  [infidels].

Despite its religious moderation, Tunisia has long been a fertile recruiting
ground for jihad, with a terror export industry stretching back to the
mujahideen of Afghanistan.

Terrorism at home, though deadly, has largely been sporadic and, prior to March
s attack at the Bardo, mostly confined to the mountainous reaches along the
Algerian border, where al Qaida in the Magreb- sponsored Ukba Ibn Naffi Kalibat
has fought a bloody low-level insurgency.

However, recent months have seen the group stymied in its mountain strongholds
and isolated from the urban centres that feed it. With Ukba Ibn Naffi s decline
has come IS s ascendancy.

Since December 2014 and with increasing frequency since, IS has been making its
ambitions for Tunisia ever clearer. On May 18, hitherto unknown Tunisian
terrorist cell, the Mujahideen Tunisia Kairouan, declared both its presence
within Tunisia and fealty to IS, giving the terror group its first tangible
foothold within North Africa s most celebrated democracy.

On June 28, it published a further video featuring Rezgui and footage of an
attack it claimed was aborted due to the presence of good Muslims, a distinction
echoing that of Rezgui s on Friday.

Chillingly, the video promised more attacks.  I think we can assume that Rezgui
was one of the  lone wolves  of the Mujahideen Tunisia Kairouan,  Tarek
Kahlaoui, a researcher on jihad and ex-director of the Tunisian Institute of
Strategic Studies said.

Young men like him are drawn to the idea of the Caliphate that Isis is creating
in Syria and Iraq and what it stands for. They see jihad as an obligation, a
calling to fight the conspiracy between the West and the Shia against them. They
re impressed by the killing machine that is Isis, by the sheer ruthless
efficiency of it all.

Recently, Tunisians already within the ranks of IS have been reaching home to
the disaffected young men of the impoverished towns that, like Gaafour, litter
Tunisia; angry young men with no identifiable link to any terror group other
than a fibre-optic cable and a gateway to the logistics and weaponry available
to them via Tunisia s porous border with war-stricken Libya.

When the message comes from someone in Syria and Iraq, it s incredibly powerful,
says Dr Kahlaoui.  These guys, the Tunisian fighters, are contacting the
undecided and unsure back home and they re asking them to do their bit. The
thing is, they re not asking them to come to Syria and Iraq, they re asking them
to become the lone wolves of Tunisia.

Rezgui s slaughter came in the holy month of Ramadan. Within this there are days
when martyrdom is considered more sanctified. These are the 15th, 17th, and 27th
days. Asked if further bloodshed is to come, Dr Kahlaoui doesn t hesitate.

Absolutely.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Blackburn holidaymakers offered 'no support' by Jet2holidays after Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: Jon Robinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


BLACKBURN families caught up in the Tunisian terrorist attack have criticised
their holiday provider for not giving them enough support.

Holidaymakers who had booked with Jet2holidays were given a free flight home
after an Islamic State gunman murdered 38 people and injured many more.

MORE TOP STORIES:

But despite seeing fellow holidaymakers cut down by bullets and blasted by
grenades, those who cut short their trips to fly home to safety have now been
told they won't receive a refund on their holidays.

Because the Foreign Office has not advised people not to travel to the North
African country, although it warned further attacks are "possible", tour
operators are not obligated to do so.

Katie Spencer had been in the country for two days before the attack happened
with her fiancée, his brother and her two children while Nathan Chapman, 21, had
been in the country for a day with his mum, step dad and sister.

Katie, who had forked out more than £1,000 on the trip, locked herself and her
family in a hotel bathroom for 10 hours as bullets smashed through the hotel's
windows.

A Jet2.com and Jet2holidays spokeswoman said: "We do understand people's
frustrations but we have offered all our customers the option of returning home
free of charge.

"Many of our customers have decided to stay in Tunisia while many others have
made the perfectly reasonable choice to come home.

"We advise passengers to purchase travel insurance to ensure they are fully
covered while abroad.

"Our focus over the last two days has been to safely repatriate those customers
wishing to return and our teams have worked tirelessly in this endeavour."

Thomson and First Choice have now announced customers travelling before October
31 can change their destination free and will be offered a £50 discount per
person on 15 new flights to other destinations.

They have also cancelled all their holidays to Tunisia which leave on or before
July 9.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 8:52 PM GMT

Trevor Bayliss opens up about Lahore terror attack and says Phillip Hughes
tragedy 'will always be in the back of people's minds'

BYLINE: PAUL NEWMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 320 words



     ·    Trevor Bayliss survived terror attack on his then Sri Lanka team in
          Lahore
     ·    Bayliss admits the events in 2009 shouldn't 'determine the rest of
          your life'
     ·    The 52-year-old also opened up about the tragedy of Phillip Hughes
     ·    England head coach says game of cricket will always honour his memory


Trevor Bayliss has spoken of how he cheated death in the attack on his then Sri
Lanka team in Lahore and on how world cricket can best honour Phillip Hughes.

The new England coach knows all about terror after the attack on the Sri Lanka
bus in 2009 and tragedy as the New South Wales coach on that fateful day in
November when Hughes was fatally struck playing for South Australia.

'You can't allow what happened in Lahore to determine the rest of your life,'
said the Australian at Lord's.

'When the bombs and bullets were flying around I thought "oh well, I can't
believe we're being shot at," but there was nothing I could do apart from keep
my head down and my arse up.

'I actually had my head leaning back on the bus that morning because I had a bit
of a headache and was a bit slow to react.

'There was no room left in the aisle so I jumped between the seats. Then I felt
some shards of glass come down through my hair and saw three bullet holes in the
window where my head had been. My philosophy is if you think about it too much
it will follow you around.'

The death of Hughes two days after being hit in the back of the neck by a ball
from Sean Abbott will also live with Bayliss.

'Wherever cricket is played the memories and sentiments that came from
everywhere in the cricketing world will always be there,' he said. 'It will
always be in the back of people's minds.

'But while the game of cricket will always honour his memory and never forget
him we cannot let it affect the way we go about the game, whether that includes
playing in an aggressive manner or not. It is important that all sides carry on
playing their own way.'

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 10:14 AM GMT

Dad's Army squad could fight UK terror attack: Retired police marksmen may have
to be drafted in to combat Tunisia-style strike because of lack of trained
officers

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 482 words



     ·    Marksmen aged up to 60 could be used as reinforcements during UK
          attack
     ·    Retirees would be ordered to report to police stations to arm
          themselves
     ·    Comes amid warnings there are not enough armed officers outside London
          to respond effectively to attack by terror gunman


A terror-response unit made up of retired police marksmen may be put together in
order to deal with a lone wolf-style attack in the UK, it has been reported.

Senior officers are considering the proposal after warnings that, outside of
London, there are not enough trained firearms officers to effectively respond to
an attack by terrorist gunmen.

Other options include 'backfilling' sharpshooter roles with military personnel,
but this could be risky, as soldiers operate under different combat rules to
domestic police.

According to The Times, police chiefs are concerned they do not have the
resources to mount the kind of armed response seen in France following the
Charlie Hebdo shootings.

The Police and Firearms Officers Association (PFOA) has proposed that officers
up to the age of 60 should be retained as back-up in case of an emergency.

As armed units are deployed around the country in response to any attack, they
would be moved into standby to respond to any further threats.

The news comes the day after Operation Strong Tower saw more than 1,000 Met
police, armed forces, transport workers and Whitehall officials take part in a
mock terror attack in London.

The exercise, the largest of its kind ever organised, was designed to test the
response of the emergency services to an attack by terrorist gunmen at a London
tube station.

While the exercise demonstrated the resources at hand in the nation's capital,
armed response throughout the rest of the country can be patchy.

After Derrick Bird began his shooting rampage in the streets of Cumbria in 2010,
it took officers hours to track him down.

Meanwhile other shooters such as Raoul Moat and Dale Cregan were able to escape
and go into hiding for up to a week before officers eventually caught up with
them.

Mark Williams, head of the PFOA, said: 'They would be available to support
full-time armed response vehicle officers at the drop of a hat to reinforce the
police response.

'If we had a Paris incident, for example in Cambridge or another less prominent
city than London, these officers would be on pagers and respond by reporting to
their local base to collect equipment.'

Speaking about Operation Strong Tower, which took place yesterday, Met Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, said: 'The threat level for terrorism has
been raised over the last year and it is vital that we train and we learn.

'Today's exercise will test our people in how to respond to a terrorist threat
and we will learn from the mistakes that we are bound to make today.

'It's best we make them today in an environment were we don't have terrorists,
than make those mistakes when we do.'

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Malton & Pickering Mercury

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Tunisia terror attack: Ryedale couple speak of their ordeal

BYLINE: Andrew Pitt

LENGTH: 805  words


A Ryedale couple say they are lucky to be alive after they were seconds away
from coming face-to-face with the Tunisian gunman.

Barry and Suzanne West, of Reeton Terrace, Norton, had been sitting by the pool
outside the Rui Imperial Marhaba hotel late on Friday morning when Tunisian
student Seifeddine Rezgui started firing indiscriminately at tourists sunbathing
on the beach 150 metres away.

"We thought it was firecrackers coming from the beach area," said Barry. "But
then, seconds later, people started to run, screaming, towards where we were."

The quick-thinking couple ran inside the hotel at the popular resort of Port El
Kantaoui and, despite being slowed by arthritis in Suzanne's leg, managed to
dive into a waiting elevator.

"Literally as the lift set off, we heard what we thought was a grenade going off
in the lobby," said Barry. "Our guess was that he was 20 seconds behind us. Had
we been at the other side of the pool, there is no way we would have got to the
lift. He would have caught up with us."

Witnesses have since said Rezgui entered the hotel via the pool area and made
his way towards the reception, where he is reported to have thrown at least one
grenade into a staff corridor - killing a woman who had taken shelter there.

He is then understood to have returned to the beech to continue his shooting
spree.

Suzanne said: "I don't think we realised until we saw the television afterwards
just how close he was to us. All the time we were thinking there are a lot more
gunmen, maybe a dozen of them. It was non-stop firing and handgrenades."

Barry and Suzanne, meanwhile, had taken refuge in a second floor hotel room with
a couple from Sunderland and a Scottish woman, barricading the door with chairs.

Suzanne said: "We were just sat behind these beds, trying to be as quiet as
possible. We still didn't know what was going on and we didn't know how long we
were going to be there."

Luckily, there was a television in the room and in the early afternoon, news of
the attack began to be revealed, along with reports that there were two gunmen.

"That was when we started worrying about our family at home, but we had no
phone," said Suzanne.

They would spend around three hours hiding in the bedroom, not knowing that
Rezgui, acting alone, had already been killed by police.

"Eventually there was a knock at the door which frightened everyone to death,"
said Barry. "I opened the door and there were three men in balaclavas and
machine guns, so I shut the door again! But they said it's okay, its the
police.' I opened the door again and they said give us half an hour to do a
complete sweep of the hotel."

Returning to their own hotel room, the couple were able to get a simple text
message to their relieved daughters Mandy and Alison: "mum and dad okay."

Thirty eight people would be killed, with as many as 30 of those expected to be
confirmed as British - making it the most significant attack on the British
people since the 7/7 attacks in London.

The aftermath of the attack brought it even closer to home how close they had
been to running into the gunman.

"Literally 10 yards from our sunbeds, the steps were covered in blood," said
Suzanne. "The atmosphere in the hotel was really sombre as I understand two of
the staff died, that's what we were told anyway."

"After that, Thomson holiday reps were everywhere. We want to make is clear that
they couldn't have done anymore for us. They called us to a meeting at 10pm and
said anyone that wants to go home should be packed and down in the lobby by
12am. Everyone in our hotel was then evacuated."

Within 24 hours of the attack, Barry and Suzanne were back in Norton - having
been flown back to Manchester and then bussed to Leeds Bradford Airport where
they picked up their car.

But, in the days that have followed, they have been glued to the television as
they try to make sense of what happened, and of the movements and motives of
Rezgui.

"After it happened, I felt reasonably calm but since I came back, it has really
hit home when you see everything on the television," said Barry.

Suzanne added: "We want to know what happened. It helps me and I need to know
where he was and where he went."

"Everyone has been great since we came home. We have had people ringing up to
see how we are and we'd like to thank everyone for all their kind thoughts."

Both are also keen to pay tribute to the Tunisians, the hotel staff and the
people themselves.

"It is a fabulous hotel," said Suzanne. "We feel sorry for the staff who were
brilliant. They are lovely people and love the British tourists. It is them who
are going to suffer in the future. Those waiters who run up and down all day -
they won't have a job next year probably because that hotel has now had its
day."

A national minute's silence for the victims of the Tunisia attack will be held
on Friday at 12pm.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NMPM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tube 'terror attack' drill tests police

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words


BRITAIN'S largest counterterrorism exercise began on the streets of London
yesterday, with 1,000 police officers involved across the capital.

The two-day drill, codenamed Strong Tower, began with a simulated attack in a
disused Tube station in Aldwych and will also involve hospitals and other
transport links.

Paramedics, police and firefighters could be seen carrying casualties, played by
actors, out of the station on stretchers while sirens wailed.

David Cameron said the dry-run was planned after January's Charlie Hebdo attack
in Paris.

Maxine de Brunner, of the Met Police, added: 'This exercise is focused on the
extreme end of what might happen. I would just like to stress to you all, it is
not being carried out in response to any specific intelligence.'

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stress rehearsal: Medics arrive at the scene of the 'terror' attack on
a disused Tube station in Aldwych as actors playing evacuees are escorted to
safety and a 'victim' is carried away by an anti-terrorism officer (right)
PICTURES: PA/REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 9:10 PM GMT

Heartbreaking moment tearful relatives watch bodies of Tunisia terror attack
victims return to the UK;
Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John
Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites have been flown home to RAF Brize Norton

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 700 words


It was a deeply solemn homecoming usually reserved for hero soldiers who had
lost their lives on the battlefields of Afghanistan or Iraq.

But this was so tragically different at RAF Brize Norton.

Instead this was the gut-wrenchingly sad way the bodies of eight holidaymakers
were returned to Britain.

Last month Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen
Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites jetted off to enjoy their
hard-earned summer holidays.

They returned in eight coffins - adorned with white flowers - at an RAF base.

Relatives watched in tears as the caskets were removed one by one from the
plane.

Plane carrying bodies of British victims of the Tunisian beach massacre lands
back in the UK

It was almost too horrific to contemplate the final seconds of their lives on
the beaches of Sousse in Tunisia.

As the bodies were loaded onto individual hearses to take them from the
Oxfordshire air force base to London one heartbroken women spoke of her
devastation.

Suzanne Richards, 46, paid a heartfelt tribute to her family.

She lost her 19-year-old son Joel, brother Adrian Evans, 49,and her dad
78-year-old Patrick Evans in the horrific attacks.

Her other son 16-year-old Owen survived the killing spree of ISIS gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui.

She said: "We are a very small and normal family, but nothing will ever be
normal again.

"My son Joel, dad Pat and brother Adrian were our rocks and we are all
heartbroken and devastated and will never get over losing them.

"They were so close that even in those minutes of pure panic the four of them
stayed together."

She revealed the men had been on a lad's holiday to celebrate Joel completing
his second year at University of Worcester and Owen finishing his GCSEs.

Mrs Richards, of Wednesbury, West Mids, added: "The 'jolly boys outing' as they
called it, was to celebrate Joel finishing his 2nd year at university with high
grades and Owen finishing his GCSEs.

"Their holiday lasted less than 24 hours and their futures and lives ended
tragically.

"We would like to say how overwhelmed we are with everyone's tributes, flowers,
cards and generosity.

"They were pure diamonds and will never be forgotten."

Tunisia beach massacre victims flown back to UK

Joel was a promising FA referee who oversaw matches across the Midlands and was
tipped for future stardom.

The Walsall FC fan qualified as an official aged just 16 in September 2011 and
Birmingham County FA had fast-tracked his development.

Earlier this week, Premier League referees Michael Oliver, 30, and Anthony
Taylor, 36, each donated £50 towards Joel's memory fund which has been set up in
his honour.

Former Aston Villa stars Tony Daley, Nigel Spink and Shaun Teale have all joined
a Facebook group called Owen Richards Fund Tunisian Attack in support of the
family.

Adrian, of Tipton, West Mids., had been a gas engineer with Sandwell Council
since 1983.

The bodies of those killed in the terror attack in Tunisia will be released to
their bereaved families as soon as possible after post-mortem examinations have
been carried out.

Six days after the beach massacre the first bodies of those killed have been
brought back to the UK, but the process of identification continues in Sousse
with a final British death toll not yet released.

The bodies were later transported to west London where senior coroner Chinyere
Inyama assumed jurisdiction.

The relatives of those killed will be at the centre of the process, chief
coroner for England and Wales His Honour Judge Peter Thornton QC said.

"The bereaved families of those who died in Tunisia will be at the heart of this
investigation process," he said.

"The utmost consideration will be given to these families throughout this
process."

CT scans will be conducted as part of post-mortem examinations in order to
establish the precise cause of death.

Mr Thornton added: "Thereafter he (Mr Inyama) will release the bodies to the
families for burial or cremation as soon as is reasonably practicable.

"No doubt he will work towards as early a release as possible in each case."

While there will be an inquest for each of those killed they will likely be held
together "in view of the circumstances of the killings", Mr Thornton said.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 5:55 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Bodies of eight Britons killed in beach massacre arrive
back in UK;
The bodies of Adrian Evans, Charles Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen
Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites were flown to RAF Brize
Norton

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


A flight carrying the bodies of eight Britons killed by a gunman in the Tunisia
beach massacre has landed in the UK.

The C-17 military transport aircraft touched down at RAF Brize Norton in the
first of several repatriation flights to take place in the coming days.

The bodies of Adrian Evans, Charles Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen
Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites were greeted by a military
guard of honour.

Their final journey began in a distant corner of Tunis Carthage airport shortly
after 10am and touched down in Oxfordshire shortly after 3pm.

The RAF plane was sent to fly the bodies home from a military airport in the
Tunisian capital Tunis this morning.

As the plane landed, a statement issued on behalf of Suzanne Richards for the
Evans and Richards families - who lost Joel Richards, 19, his uncle Adrian
Evans, 49 and granddad Pat Evans, 78, in the attack.

Ms Richards said: "We are a very small and normal family, but nothing will ever
be normal again.

"My son Joel, dad Pat and brother Adrian were our rocks and we are all
heartbroken and devastated and will never get over losing them.

"They were so close that even in those minutes of pure panic the four of them
stayed together."

Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen survived the attack.

Referring to the attack Ms Richards said the 'nation must fight this evil
together' while remembering to 'smile' for the loved-ones taken away.

She said: "The 'jolly boys outing' as they called it, was to celebrate Joel
finishing his 2nd year at University with high grades and Owen finishing his
GCSE's.

"Their holiday lasted less than 24 hours and their futures and lives ended
tragically.

"We would like to say how overwhelmed we are with everyone's tributes, flowers,
cards and generosity.

"They were pure diamonds and will never be forgotten.

"As a nation we must fight this evil together and smile for Joel, Ade and Pat."

When the plane landed relatives of those on board wept and comforted each other.

The flight set off as Prime Minister David Cameron told MPs that 27 British
nationals had been confirmed dead.

A total of 30 Britons are believed to be among the 38 shot dead by student
Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, at the beach resort of Sousse on Friday .

All wounded Britons have been brought back to the UK, with four severely injured
holidaymakers flown home accompanied by "medevac" teams.

They are being treated at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford, Plymouth and London.
Among the four is Allison Heathcote, 48, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, who was
celebrating her 30th wedding anniversary when she was gunned down.Bodies of
eight Britons killed in beach massacre arrive back in UK

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 12:06 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Repatriation of British victims killed in beach massacre
begins;
A convoy of four ambulances brought them to Tunis military airport ahead of an
flight back to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 544 words


The bodies of British victims of the Tunisian beach massacre are being flown
back to Britain to a military reception today.

Their final journey began in a distant corner of Tunis Carthage airport shortly
after 10am which is due to touch down in the UK at around 3pm.

RAF personnel carried the coffins of eight of the dead onto a C-17 Globemaster
for the 2,000 mile flight back to the UK.

Those being repatriated are Adrian Evans, Charles Evans, Joel Richards, Carly
Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites.

They were given a military salute as they were borne at shoulder height from
ambulances into the back of the aircraft. They are the first of the 30 feared
dead from the UK to be repatriated.

The C-17 had left the UK at 2am and arrived at Tunis Carthage airport just
before dawn in readiness for the journey home.

It was due to depart this morning, with bereaved relatives waiting for their
loved ones at RAF Brize Norton back in the UK.

The RAF Queen's Colour Squadron will then move the coffins into hearses to be
transported to the West London coroner's office in Fulham where they can be
formally be released for burial.

Some 27 Britons are now confirmed to be among the 38 shot dead by student
Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, at the beach resort of Sousse on Friday. But the British
death toll is expected to rise to 30.

All wounded Britons have been brought back to the UK, with four severely injured
holidaymakers flown home accompanied by "medevac" teams.

They are being treated at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford, Plymouth and London.
Among the four is Allison Heathcote, 48, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, who was
celebrating her 30th wedding anniversary when she was gunned down.

She was shot repeatedly in her stomach and shoulder and was pictured shortly
after the attack in her pink bikini lying immobile on a sun lounger as hotel
staff tended to her wounds.

Her husband Philip, 52, was killed in the terror attack. She has undergone
surgery at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham, where she is in a
critical condition. A single inquest covering all the British dead is to be
opened by the West London coroner.

The latest victims to be named include James and Ann McQuire from Cumbernauld,
and Billy and Lisa Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth, who were visiting the
resort to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th birthday.

The family of Janet and John Stocker, aged 63 and 74, confirmed "with regret and
great sadness" that the "happiest, most loving" couple died in the Tunisia
shootings, as did the family of Christopher and Sharon Bell, from Leeds.

Tunisian authorities are questioning several suspected associates of Rezgui, who
had links to the terror group Islamic State (IS).

Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said an investigation was under way into
security failures and there would be armed tourist police on beaches.

A group understood to be relatives of some of the British dead were among scores
of people, local and European, who left flowers and messages at the memorials to
the victims on the beach at Sousse.

The group, escorted by security guards, left bouquets with a message saying:
"Taken too soon, missed by so many, always in our thoughts, lots of love,
Denise, Paul, Mark, Kelly, Lee."

Repatriated back to UK from Tunis Airport

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Sheerness Times Guardian

                                  July 1, 2015

Former Miss Sheppey lucky to survive Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 362  words


by Lewis Dyson

ldyson@thekmgroup.co.uk

@Lewis_Dyson

A tourist caught up in the Tunisian hotel terror attack says she and her
boyfriend are lucky to be alive.

Former Miss Sheppey Nicole Harris and David Schofield were staying at the Royal
Kenz Hotel, two doors down from the Imperial Marhaba where the terror attack
happened on Friday.

The two sites share the same stretch of beach, and on the morning of the
shooting the couple had decided to stay by the pool rather than go down on to
the seafront - a choice that possibly saved their lives.

Former Minster resident Miss Harris said: "We were next to the path that leads
to the beach you can see in some of the photos, so we were really lucky we made
that decision.

"It was really surreal what was happening. We were just lying by the pool and
suddenly everyone started moving inside.

"So we followed them, and we asked one of the entertainment reps what was
happening, and we were told there were police with guns and they needed to get
everyone inside.

"So we went indoors without really knowing what was going on.

"As we were moving we heard what we now believe to be a grenade, which obviously
made us move a lot faster into the hotel.

"We were told to go into the rooms and we would be contacted when it was safe,
which is obviously really scary because you are just in a room waiting and there
are sirens going off and helicopters flying around."

The 25-year-old was one of the tourists to fly back to the UK on Saturday -
travelling back to Sheppey to stay with her mum.

Nicole is well known on Sheppey for competing in beauty pageants, winning Miss
Sheppey in 2006.

In July 2013, we reported how she was flying out to Romania to take part in Miss
European - representing Scotland where her father comes from.

The former Bergamot Avenue resident, who now lives in Manchester, has just
qualified as a primary school teacher, and had hoped to enjoy her last holiday
during term time.

She said: "I feel lucky that we made the decision not to go to the beach, and
obviously I really feel for all the friends and families of those who were not
as fortunate as we were.

"I hope all the injured can get back to the UK as soon as possible."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 3:03 PM GMT

Roy Greenslade: This misplaced attack on BBC plays into hands of the terrorists

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 569 words


The world is confronted by terror in the form of a Middle East group that
decapitates prisoners, and encourages its followers to shoot tourists at random
and murder cartoonists.

Its stated objective is to create an Islamic caliphate which, for want of a
better description, is a kind of worldwide superstate.

It not only refuses to recognise the borders constructed after the fall of the
Ottoman empire, it does not recognise any borders anywhere around the globe.

Since its foundation in 1999, it has been known by several names and, in the
ensuing confusion, media outlets across the world have tended to use a variety
of titles.

Some call it the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (with the consequent
acronym Isil). Some prefer the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham (Isis).

Others use the short-form "Islamic State" while my Arabic-speaking friends
always refer to it as Da'ish or Da'eesh.

So what? Given the nature of this barbaric group, its name is largely
irrelevant.

We know the animal for what it is - the enemy of freedom and democracy. It is a
terrorist organisation and we look to our political leaders to protect us and to
construct a strategy to bring it to heel.

Instead - and words almost fail me as I write this - a cross-party group of 120
MPs, following the Prime Minister's lead, have turned their guns on the BBC for
using the term "Islamic State" in its news output when reporting on the group's
blood-soaked atrocities.

They wrote to the BBC's Director General, Lord (Tony) Hall, to complain by
adopting this most specious of arguments: the group is neither Islamic nor does
it represent a state.

Did they really think we didn't know that? Do they sincerely believe the British
people are fooled by the name? Are they seriously suggesting people will sign up
to join a gang of murderers because it has chosen a name in which it claims to
be an Islamic state?

Sadly, a BBC spokesman has given the letter credence by saying that the
corporation will now consider the matter.

Don't, Tony, please don't. It would be a travesty to do so. In fact, more
hearteningly, the BBC did issue a statement in which it said that none of its
viewers and listeners could be in any doubt about what Islamic State does and
does not represent.

More from Roy Greenslade

As the spokesman said: "We call the group by the name it uses itself."

In a sense, this initiative by our MPs is political correctness stood on its
head. It is asking Britain's largest news organisation to come up with some kind
of euphemism to mask the truth.

The objectors seem to think that Islamic State is winning some kind of
propaganda war. Really? Where is the proof of that?

According to David Cameron, speaking on Radio 4's Today: "Many Muslims listening
to this programme will recoil every time they hear the words Islamic State."

He appears to base this on receiving letters from a couple of Muslim groups
that, to be honest, should know better.

Then, in a further retreat from sanity, Cameron later said he preferred
reporters to call it Isil which (see above) is simply an acronym that includes
the words "Islamic State".

Please, Mr Cameron, don't bash the BBC for doing its job. Surely, creating a row
for no good reason between Britain's Prime Minister and Britain's public service
broadcaster plays right into the hands of the terrorists.

Roy Greenslade is Professor of Journalism, City University London, and writes a
blog for The Guardian

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Family struggles to cancel Tunisia holiday after terror attack

BYLINE: Paul Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 426 words


A FAMILY which wants to cancel a holiday to Tunisia after the deadly terror
shooting last week is struggling to secure a refund.

Anthony Gabb and his partner, Sue Andrews, booked a week-long trip to Sousse
with holiday firm Red Sea Holidays around four weeks ago at the Co-operative
Travel shop in Old Town.

The pair also booked for six other members of their family, including Anthony's
son, Jamie, and his family.

But after the shocking incident on Friday which left 30 Britons - and eight
others - dead, the family decided they would cancel their £3,000 holiday and
choose another destination.

However, Red Sea Holidays says it will only reschedule the trip, up to October
31, and not issue a refund, as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is not
saying it is unsafe to travel to the country.

"We booked the holiday and they said it (Tunisia) was okay for families," said
62-year-old Mr Gabb.

"The government is saying it is okay to travel there, but I don't think it is
okay to take a family.

"You wouldn't chance it would you? Not with children. You want to go there and
relax and have a good time but you see these pictures on the telly, you can't
take the chance."

Red Sea Holidays said it would reschedule the Gabbs' holiday.

"Firstly, our thoughts are with those who have lost loved ones, family and
friends as a result of this dreadful event," said Jason Hilton, deputy managing
director.

"As with the majority of UK tour operators we are offering changes to date of
travel, resort or destination for current bookings to Tunisia departing through
to July 26.

"Thereafter, until such time as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office travel
advisory indicates otherwise, current Tunisia holiday bookings remain in place."

He added: "At this point the Foreign & Commonwealth Office is not advising
against travel to Tunisia, and all our flights are still scheduled to go ahead
as normal.

"We recognise that some people will be concerned about visiting the resort, and
for that reason we are offering customers departing up to, and including, July
26 the opportunity to change date of travel - up to October 31 - resort or
destination, free of charge.

"Customers wishing to make this amendment must contact their travel agent or Red
Sea Holidays, otherwise their original travel plans will remain in place."

But Mr Gabb said the situation had left the family devastated, after looking
forward to the trip.

"We couldn't believe it when we heard. You just think how you're lucky really,"
he said.

"We could have been there when it happened, so we're fortunate in that way."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 1, 2015 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT

Letters: The Greek people have to pay the price whatever the politicians do;
Greece deserves compassion in its present crisis; being prepared for a terrorist
attack; the value of soft skills; and the rodent prey of the owl and the pussy
cat

LENGTH: 1669 words


SIR - As a junior medical officer I was posted to Greece in 1946. The country
was battered and war-torn but completely unspoiled and very beautiful. I fell in
love with the country and have remained so ever since.

This attachment was strengthened by the many Greek patients who came to my
specialist clinic at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge. I now worry that they
may not be able to obtain the life-saving medication they need.

Greece suffered severely at the hands of Hitler's hordes, a suffering for which
they received little or no compensation. We in the West owe a great deal to
classical Greek civilisation, and we should not take too minatory an attitude to
their present difficulties.

Byron, in that beautiful poem "The Isles of Greece", summed up the situation in
a single line: "For Greeks a blush - for Greece a tear".

Dr J M Walshe                      Cambridge

SIR - In 2009 the OECD estimated the size of the grey market in Greece was
(EURO)65 billion, equal to 25 per cent of GDP and resulting in a loss of around
(EURO)20 billion in unpaid taxes.

Tax evasion in Greece is rife. In 2005 it was estimated that 49 per cent of
Greeks participated in tax evasion. In Greece we are frequently told "No VAT for
cash".

If Greece were to crack down on tax evasion it would solve its debt crisis. If
the Greeks don't pay their taxes, why should taxpayers in the rest of the
eurozone make up the shortfall?

Trevor Taylor                      Yacht Breeze, Ionian Islands, Greece

SIR - The Greek government talks of preserving democracy and keeping the euro.
Has it really failed to grasp what the EU is about? For its survival the EU
depends on neutralising the power of the people.

Greeks can have their cake, but they are certainly not allowed to eat it.

Carole Doggett                      Barton-on-Sea, Hampshire

SIR - If I go bankrupt, my bank will not give me more money to spend, and this
will help me to understand not to spend what I haven't got.

If the EU bails out every member country that goes bankrupt, the rich countries
will be permanently funding those that will never learn, or want to learn,
fiduciary prudence.

Pam Maybury                      Bath, Somerset

SIR - It is sad for millions in Europe that no one addresses the fact that the
EU is run for the benefit of Germany.

John Porter                      Poole, Dorset

SIR - The Greek tragedy is a bit like The Merchant of Venice.

Paul Brazier                      Kingswood, Gloucestershire

SIR - The distinction made by 1066 And All That sums it up: Greece, wrong but
romantic; EU, right but repulsive.

John Frankel                      Kingsclere, Berkshire

Prepared for attack

<em class="bold" />

sir - Following the atrocities in Tunisia, I asked my husband, a military man,
for advice should I ever find myself in the midst of a terrorist attack.

He outlined various scenarios, explaining how one can increase chances of
survival in each by following a certain course of action. Before the Government
cuts the defence budget, it would be wise to circulate a leaflet to British
households containing precautions and advice in the event of such an attack.

As the adage goes, forewarned is forearmed.

Patricia Abbott Wattisfield, Suffolk

SIR - It comes down to this. We are all hostages to fortune. The disaffected
loner rules, however temporarily.

Nor is it profitable to blame this government or that policing system for its
failure to prevent an isolated incident. We must not stop trying to prevent acts
of terrorism, but we will never achieve total success.

Peter Wyton Longlevens, Gloucestershire

SIR - By associating the barbaric attack on the Tunisian beach and the slaughter
of churchgoers by the white supremacist in South Carolina with what he refers to
as "the slaughter of 2,000 innocent civilians in Gaza", Munjed Farid Al Qutob
(Letters, June 30) displays his lack of understanding.

Last year, Israel undertook a defensive action in response to, and in an attempt
to stop, literally thousands of rockets that had been launched indiscriminately
from Gaza against its civilian population. That a number of children were killed
in Gaza is wholly regrettable, but the majority of "civilians" were simply
jihadists who shelter themselves among civilians - in places including schools.

Henry Dony Watford, Hertfordshire

SIR - May I propose that the British Government formally recognises the bravery
of the Tunisian local worker Ibrahim el Ghoul, who apparently risked his life to
rescue tourists.

In this moment of recoiling from the evil of such an enemy, we could do worse
than to recognise such a friend.

Kevin Clarke Lindfield, West Sussex

Soft skills' hard value

SIR - Earlier this year, the director general of the CBI called for changes in
the British education system to equip students with the attitudes and aptitudes
necessary for work and life.

Central to this are so-called soft skills. Skills such as communication,
teamwork and management are crucial to the success of individuals and
businesses. These skills are worth £88 billion a year to the UK economy and can
boost a lifetime's earnings by up to 15 per cent. But for too long they have not
been taken seriously enough.

Since January, a cross-industry consultation has been looking at how best to
tackle this issue. We are calling for a robust, user-friendly soft skills
framework, which individuals and employers can apply to their own organisations
and hiring processes.

Soft skills should be embedded into curricular and extra-curricular activities.
Links should be improved between business, education and the youth sector to
promote development of soft skills. Government departments should be more joined
up in supporting soft skills consistently in policy decisions.

We call on all sectors to help realise the potential of soft skills.

Richard Forte Chief Operating Officer, McDonald's UK James CaanMark Anderson
Managing Director, Pearson Richard Atkins President, Association of CollegesJon
Boagey Chief Executive, National Youth AgencyPeter Westgarth Chief Executive,
The Duke of Edinburgh's AwardJonathan Douglas Director, National Literacy
TrustKaterina Rudiger Head of Volunteering and Employability Campaigns,
CIPDLizzie Crowley Director, the Work FoundationMikki Dragoo Corporate Affairs,
City & GuildsSimon Tarr Managing Director, People 1stMark Capper Business
Development Manager, MencapJulia Grant Acting CEO, Impetus-PEFEmma Atkins CEO,
Dame Kelly Holmes TrustGrace Mehanna Campaign Director, Talent & Skills,
Business In The Community

In defence of the DPP

SIR - Alison Saunders should not be forced to resign as the Director of Public
Prosecutions.

She is the first DPP appointed from the Crown Prosecution Service, which she
joined on its foundation in 1986. Her original decision regarding Lord Janner
was not made on a whim, but through long, minute deliberation.

The failure of her predecessors to act when Lord Janner was still of "sound
mind" is not her fault; yet she is deemed by some as unfit to stay in office.
How many 30-year careers (like Sir Tim Hunt's) are to be destroyed on a single
misunderstood issue?

Judy Hopkins JP New Malden, Surrey

Coventry's builders should have looked abroad

<em class="bold" />

SIR - I agree entirely with Roger Chappell (Letters, June 26) that the postwar
restoration of Coventry was a disaster.

Recently I had the opportunity of visiting the war graves at Ypres. Every
building in the town centre was rebuilt using money paid by Germany in
reparations, with the main square, including the Cloth Hall and town hall, being
rebuilt as close to the original designs as possible. It is hard to credit that
after the First World War there was not a building left standing.

Why could we not have achieved the same for Coventry and other towns?

Richard Ashworth London SW6

The rodent prey of the owl and the pussy cat

SIR - A domestic cat does not forage for its food; it merely plays with its prey
(Letters, June 29). The barn owl in your photograph had young to feed and the
mouse it caught formed part of the food chain.

Keith Kenworthy Mansfield, Nottinghamshire

SIR - Rupert Godfrey quotes a report on the website of the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds as saying: "It is likely that most of the birds killed by
cats would have died anyway from other causes".

Does this mean that some of the birds not killed by cats are immortal?

Brian Smith Dunfermline, Fife

SIR - Dogs are chipped for identification and their poo has to be collected
wherever it may fall. Cat owners have no such concerns.

Their pets roam free, kill what they want and poo where they please - preferably
in a neighbour's garden, so they do not give away their home's location to
theoretical predators.

How blessed are they that purr.

Julian Barnes Bodfari, Denbighshire

Parakeet pincer

SIR - Tony Parrack (Letters, June 30), who complains of parakeets, lives in
south west London.

I live in north east London and am similarly afflicted by this loathsome
introduced species. It would seem they have London surrounded. What can we do to
be rid of this pestilence?

Janet Beck Woodford Green, Essex

Space to think

SIR - The revamped Telegraph typeface and wider spacing are a definite
improvement.

When David Cameron briefs us on the EU referendum, we'll now be able to read
between the lines.

Alan Mooge Enfield, Middlesex

The state of play

<em class="bold" />

SIR - The first day at Wimbledon represented the state of modern England:
bearded players, swearing, and tattooed players and fans.

What an example to the world.

John Lidstone Sutton Scotney, Hampshire

Find the lady

SIR - "Police are hunting an elderly lady who attacked a 22-year-old woman",
stated an item in Tuesday's bulletin.

Was it age that made the author decide to refer to the attacker as a "lady" and
the victim as a "woman"?

She doesn't sound like a lady to me.

Sylvia Crookes Bainbridge, North Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Britain needs to decapitate the Isis beheaders;
We need a new approach and the courage to hit back in the wake of the Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 778 words


While fighting the Germans in north Africa, Montgomery famously pinned to his
wall a portrait of his enemy Rommel, the Desert Fox. David Cameron should do
something similar with the self-proclaimed caliph of Islamic State, Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi, to remind him that Britain is now properly at war with the world's
most menacing terror organisation.

The "full spectrum" of measures Mr Cameron promised in response to the slaughter
in Tunisia mask a simple, embarrassing truth: that the British government is
still not ready to step up the military campaign against the caliph's
black-shirted thugs. Nothing would more effectively destroy the seemingly
magnetic attraction of Isis to aspiring jihadists than bombing, together with
the US and other allies, the group's headquarters in Raqqa.

The most pressing lesson from last Friday's beachside massacre is not that
British school teachers need to keep an eye on the browsing habits of its Muslim
pupils, but that we need to get serious about beating Isis on the battlefield.
The current western policy of containing and disrupting Isis is not working.
They have taken Ramadi and Palmyra and, despite 6,000 US bombing raids (and 300
by the RAF), Isis still has enough fuel to switch troops swiftly from one front
to another, and enough funds to keep its men happy.

The shift to the offensive against Isis has to happen, with or without UN
approval, with or without the go-ahead from President Bashar al-Assad (Raqqa is
in Syria). Our government is wrong if it believes that it must permanently hold
itself in check because of a national distaste for a return to Tony Blair's
military expeditions. The popular objection to Blair's wars was not a pacifist
reflex. Rather it was about intervening, at risk to British life, in Middle East
crises which we do not understand and for which we have no strategic concept
beyond fidelity to the US. That's understandable but serial atrocities, capped
by last week's attack in Sousse, are almost certainly changing minds.

If a new consensus is to be built at home around more heartfelt military action
then the government has to demonstrate that an escalating use of force is part
of a coherent strategic plan. That means explaining what was good about the Arab
uprisings of 2011 and why some of them went awry. It means drawing the
appropriate conclusions about how Britain should reward and encourage those Arab
societies striving to find a balance between security and democracy. It means
finding allies and helping their economies to flower.

We should start with Tunisia, that much is clear. The country has done almost
everything we could have expected in terms of staging and respecting democratic
elections. It was never going to be easy and the EU did not help enough. The
European part of the compact with Arab reformers should have been to help to
create jobs for the young and well educated (the Sousse killer had just finished
his MSc exams) who feel orphaned by the Arab Spring. Some are joining the
migrant flow across the Mediterranean; some are becoming jihadists; some, God
help us, may be both.

Tunisia could be a third way between the meltdown of Libya and the enforced
stability of President Sisi's Egypt. The lawlessness of Libya has turned it into
a jihadist stamping ground while President Sisi's vengeful and politicised
judges are creating a new generation of jihadists by doling out tough sentences
on the flimsiest of evidence.

In truth we never really had a plan for places such as Tunisia and Jordan, the
fragile countries that we could turn into proper allies. The task now is to show
them and the British public that we can craft a finely tuned but properly
focused policy in the Middle East: aid, arms, a sense of common purpose and a
clearly identified common enemy with whom we are ready to do battle. Start by
having hard-edged conversations with the Gulf monarchies who still tolerate the
private sponsorship of Islamic State. Kuwait, just rocked by a suicide bomb in a
Shia mosque, is beginning to grasp that terrorist groups tend to switch
loyalties and are ready to stir mayhem in the countries that fund them.

Our foreign policy towards the Middle East has to become more astringent in tone
and seen through the prism of counter-terrorism. We can demand more of countries
like Turkey, a most ambiguous Nato ally, and Saudi Arabia in the fight against
Isis. And we ourselves have to be ready to take on the military risks of
striking at Isis leadership figures and decapitate, so to speak, the beheaders.
The region is messy and bloody but that's no longer a reason for keeping our
distance. It has become our mess and, since last Friday, our blood too.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Dad's Army unit lined up to fight UK terror attack The new face of anti-terror
policing

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill ; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 748 words


Publisher Notice: We incorrectly identified a Union Jack badge on a police
officer's uniform (Picture caption, July 1) as a "Thin BlueLine badge". Thin
Blue Line badges, which we said are worn as "a protest against budget cuts", are
marketed to show support for the police, and £1 from each badge sold is donated
to the charity Care of Police Survivors. We apologise for the error.

A "Dad's Army" squad of retired marksmen could be formed to bolster the number
of police firearms officers in the event of a terrorist gun attack.

The proposal is being considered by senior officers who are concerned that there
might not be sufficient trained officers to respond fully to the kind of manhunt
that the French police mounted in Paris in January after the Charlie Hebdo
attacks.

Current plans include "backfilling" policing gaps with soldiers in the event of
an emergency or intelligence that a terror attack is imminent. There is
nervousness, however, about putting soldiers in frontline police roles because
they operate under different rules of engagement.

The Metropolitan police deployed hundreds of armed officers yesterday in a
counterterrorism exercise held in central London. Supported by the military and
the emergency services, Operation Stone Tower enacted a hostage scenario at the
disused Aldwych Underground station.

Outside London, however, police firearms cover is often sparse and, given cuts
to budgets, the response could be slow. When Derrick Bird went on a shooting
rampage in Cumbria in 2010, it took more than an hour for an armed unit to find
him.

The Police Firearms Officers Association (PFOA) has put forward the plan for
retired officers up to the age of 60 to be retained as a back-up force. If
frontline units were called to an emergency, they could step in to maintain
police firearms coverage across the country.

Reservists would have to undergo ten days' firearms training and assessment each
year, complete a fitness test and commit to being on call during specific
periods and in certain locations. The reservists would be designated as special
constables and have police powers while on duty.

"They would be available to support full-time armed response vehicle officers at
the drop of a hat to reinforce the police response," said Mark Williams of the
PFOA.

"If we had a Paris incident, for example in Cambridge or another less prominent
city than London, these officers would be on pagers and respond by reporting to
their local base to collect equipment."

Londoners were told yesterday that the sounds of gunfire and explosions in the
Aldwych area were the result of the exercise, which has been planned for six
months.

Three "gunmen" armed with Kalashnikov rifles were at the centre of the exercise.
The "terrorists" - whose roles are thought to have been played by members of
special forces - picked off victims outside the disused Tube station before
being tackled by armed police.

Two of the "gunmen" were "shot" in the scenario by officers from the Met's
firearms unit, while a third took hostages into the station. The hostages were
later freed after officers forced their way into the building.

Officers involved included elite counterterrorism specialist firearms officers,
a unit created in the aftermath of the 2008 Mumbai attack and established just
before the 2012 Olympics.

Designed to test the response of the emergency services in a heightened terror
climate, the exercise took place at multiple sites including Canary Wharf. It
involved the military, the emergency services, hospitals and the Government's
Cobra emergency committee.

The Met Commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said: "As people will be aware, the
threat level for terrorism has been raised over the last year and it is vital
that we train and we learn. Today's exercise will test our people in how to
respond to a terrorist threat and we will learn from the mistakes that we are
bound to make today.

"It's best we make them today, in an environment were we don't have terrorists,
than make those mistakes when we do."

The exercise is to continue today but details of how it will unfold have not
been publicised.

Ear protectors drown out gunfire but allow wearer to hear speech ID badge Glow
sticks for signalling and light Glock pistol Airwave radio Protective goggles
and ballistics combat helmet Fire retardant balaclava, also for anonymity Thin
Blue Line badge - not part of the uniform but a protest against budget cuts
Communication switch Spare magazines for carbine SIG 516 carbine

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLE; JEFF J MITCHELL/GETTY; SWNS; PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain needs to decapitate the Isis beheaders;
We need a new approach and the courage to hit back in the wake of the Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 798 words


While fighting the Germans in north Africa, Montgomery famously pinned to his
wall a portrait of his enemy Rommel, the Desert Fox. David Cameron should do
something similar with the selfproclaimed caliph of Islamic State, Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi, to remind him that Britain is now properly at war with the world's
most menacing terror organisation.

The "full spectrum" of measures Mr Cameron promised in response to the slaughter
in Tunisia mask a simple, embarrassing truth: that the British government is
still not ready to step up the military campaign against the caliph's
black-shirted thugs. Nothing would more effectively destroy the seemingly
magnetic attraction of Isis to aspiring jihadists than bombing, together with
the US and other allies, the group's headquarters in Raqqa.

The most pressing lesson from last Friday's beachside massacre is not that
British school teachers need to keep an eye on the browsing habits of its Muslim
pupils, but that we need to get serious about beating Isis on the battlefield.
The current western policy of containing and disrupting Isis is not working.
They have taken Ramadi and Palmyra and, despite 6,000 US bombing raids (and 300
by the RAF), Isis still has enough fuel to switch troops swiftly from one front
to another, and enough funds to keep its men happy.

The shift to the offensive against Isis has to happen, with or without UN
approval, with or without the go-ahead from President Bashar al-Assad (Raqqa is
in Syria). Our government is wrong if it believes that it must permanently hold
itself in check because of a national distaste for a return to Tony Blair's
military expeditions. The popular objection to Blair's wars was not a pacifist
reflex. Rather it was about intervening, at risk to British life, in Middle East
crises which we do not understand and for which we have no strategic concept
beyond fidelity to the US. That's understandable but serial atrocities, capped
by last week's  attack in Sousse, are almost certainly changing minds.

If a new consensus is to be built at home around more heartfelt military action
then the government has to demonstrate that an escalating use of force is part
of a coherent strategic plan. That means explaining what was good about the Arab
uprisings of 2011 and why some of them went awry. It means drawing the
appropriate conclusions about how Britain should reward and encourage those Arab
societies striving to find a balance between security and democracy. It means
finding allies and helping their economies to flower.

We should start with Tunisia, that much is clear. The country has done almost
everything we could have expected in terms of staging and respecting democratic
elections. It was never going to be easy and the EU did not help enough. The
European part of the compact with Arab reformers should have been to help to
create jobs for the young and well educated (the Sousse killer had just finished
his MSc exams) who feel orphaned by the Arab Spring. Some are joining the
migrant flow across the Mediterranean; some are becoming jihadists; some, God
help us, may be both.

Tunisia could be a third way attack in Sousse, are almost certainly changing
minds.between the meltdown of Libya and the enforced stability of President
Sisi's Egypt. The lawlessness of Libya has turned it into a jihadist stamping
ground while President Sisi's vengeful and politicised judges are creating a new
generation of jihadists by doling out tough sentences on the flimsiest of
evidence.

In truth we never really had a plan for places such as Tunisia and Jordan, the
fragile countries that we could turn into proper allies. The task now is to show
them and the British public that we can craft a finely tuned but properly
focused policy in the Middle East: aid, arms, a sense of common purpose and a
clearly identified common enemy with whom we are ready to do battle. Start by
having hard-edged conversations with the Gulf monarchies who still tolerate the
private sponsorship of Islamic State. Kuwait, just rocked by a suicide bomb in a
Shia mosque, is beginning to grasp that terrorist groups tend to switch
loyalties and are ready to stir mayhem in the countries that fund them.

Our foreign policy towards the Middle East has to become more astringent in tone
and seen through the prism of counter-terrorism. We can demand more of countries
like Turkey, a most ambiguous Nato ally, and Saudi Arabia in the fight against
Isis. And we ourselves have to be ready to take on the military risks of
striking at Isis leadership figures and decapitate, so to speak, the beheaders.
The region is messy and bloody but that's no longer a reason for keeping our
distance. It has become our mess and, since last Friday, our blood too.

Between chaotic Libya and Egypt's enforced stability is a third way

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nothing would help more to destroy Isis's appeal than bombing Raqqa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 8:53 AM  EST

MINISTER FOR NORTH AFRICA ELLWOOD CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN EGYPT

LENGTH: 101 words


LONDON, July 1 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Tobias Ellwood condemns attack today in North Sinai and sends his thoughts to
families of those affected.

Mr. Ellwood said:

I condemn the deplorable terrorist attacks in North Sinai today that have
resulted in the deaths of so many Egyptian soldiers. My thoughts are with the
families of all those affected. The UK stands firm with the Egyptian people in
their fight against the threat of terrorism." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Can Tunisia's tourist industry survive the terror attack?

LENGTH: 1146  words


With Tunisia on high alert following the beachside massacre in Sousse, Sarah
Freeman reports on how restoring tourism will be key to the area's long-term
recovery.

In the hours after 23 year old Seifeddine Rezgui turned a beach in the popular
Tunisian resort of Sousse into a bloodbath, the exodus of tourists began.

Within 48 hours, more than 3,500 British holidaymakers had left the country
early. Some said they feared a copycat attack, but most simply felt
uncomfortable continuing as normal when a few minutes walk away the grim job of
identifying the bodies continued.

Not everyone left. Latest figures estimate around half decided to stay put. Some
claimed their decision was a show of defiance against Islamic extremism. Others
put it more simply - they had paid for a fortnight in the sun and it would take
more than an act of terror to get them packing their bags.

Last year tourism accounted for  15.1 per cent of Tunisia's GDP, but for every
Brit still drinking the local boukha there are now many others currently
thinking about booking their summer holiday who will be looking elsewhere.

"We have analysed what happened following a number of terrorist attacks,   from
the killing of 62 tourists in Luxor in 1997 to the Bali bombing of 2002 and the
July 7 attacks on London 10 years ago," says Yeganeh Morakabati, an expert in
risk and tourism based at Bournemouth University. "We looked at the impact on
these destinations in terms of the number of people visiting and the amount of
tourist spend and there is a difference. In London,  the 7/7 bombings actually
had no noticeable effect and the same was true in Spain following the Madrid
train bombing in 2004.

"The reality is you can't go to see Buckingham Palace, the British Museum or the
Houses of Parliament anywhere else in the world apart from London and so
whatever happens the tourists will come. However, if all you really want to do
is lie on the beach then there are many different destinations to choose from.
It probably took tourism in somewhere like Bali about two years to recover
following the bombings which left more than 200 people dead."

Last year, a report by the Association of British Travel Agents showed that most
holidaymakers have short memories and while one-off incidents will have an
immediate, short-term impact in terms of bookings, the majority of countries do
tend to bounce back from a terror attack.

In fact, the research showed that it was only countries like Egypt, which has
suffered from continued political unrest where visitor numbers have gone into
long-term decline, with UK visitors falling by more than 18 per cent  between
2010 and 2014.

"Clearly places which are highly developed in terms of mass tourism are much
better placed to recover than an emerging resort which may be little known about
apart from being the site of a tragedy," says Morakabati. "The media inevitably
has a role to play and how events are reported in the press and television can
have an impact.

"If people are repeatedly shown graphic footage of bodies lying on a beach then
that makes what happened very real. At least initially, with those images at the
forefront of their mind, a significant number of people may be dissuaded from
going to Tunisia."

Prior to the events of last week, the Foreign Office had already warned that the
threat of terrorism was high in Tunisia, but in the wake of the massacre that
advice has now been updated.

A statement on the website now reads: "Further terrorist attacks are likely,
including in tourist resorts, and by individuals unknown to the authorities,
whose actions may be inspired by terrorist groups via social media. You should
be especially vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security
authorities and your tour operator." A little further down, the Foreign Office
adds: "424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in 2014. Most British tourists
stay in the coastal resorts and most visits are trouble free". However,  that
reassurance alone may not be enough to persuade the tourists to return.

"In a country like Egypt many people differentiate between the capital Cairo,
which is seen as high risk and a resort like Sharm el-Sheikh, even though it has
in the past been subject to a number of terrorist attacks," says Dr Razaq Raj,
principal lecturer at the School of Events, Tourism and Hospitality at Leeds
Beckett University.

"However, Sousse was supposed to be one of those safe places and going forward
it is vital to ensure that what happened on the beach is seen as a  barbaric
act, but one which is nothing to do with the destination itself.  The Foreign
Office is right in its advice, but had it decided to declare Sousse a no go area
then that would have been disastrous for Tunisia.

"Whatever anyone does, the impact cant' be completely mitigated, but we are now
living in a borderless environment and we have to accept that these acts of
terror can happen anywhere."

Yesterday, the first of the  C-17 military transport aircrafts landed in Brize
Norton carrying the bodies of eight Britons killed on the sands of Sousse. At
the same time discounted holidays and flights to Tunisia were already being
snapped up by those apparently convinced by the old adage that lightning won't
strike twice. Or at least not for a while.

"The truth is that some people are attracted by risk," says Morakabati. "For
others it's a mathematical equation. They weigh up whether the attractiveness of
the destination and deal is higher than the chances of being caught in an
attack. If it is, then they go."

Last year the number of British tourists heading to Tunisia reached record
levels. Out of the 6.5m visitors the country received last year, 435,000 were
from this country and before last Friday it was on course for a further increase
of 20 per cent by the end of this year.

"Of course there will be a negative impact on tourism in the short-term, but in
Tunisia we don't think like that," says Moncef Battikh, head of promotion at the
London base of the Tunisian National Tourist Office. "At the moment we are more
concerned about the families of the dead and injured.

"They were our guests and in our culture, it is our duty to look after our
visitors and make sure they are safe. That philosophy can be seen by the number
of locals who acted as human shields during the attack and it is one that we
will continue to live by.

"In the last few days we have been overwhelmed by support from all walks of life
who have emailed us to pledge their support to Tunisia. With that kind of
solidarity, we are confident that Sousse will be able to come back from this.

"There are 11 million people in Tunisia and all of them have been hurt by this
attack. However, this is a very ancient country and over the centuries we have
faced many, many hurdles, but we have always got over them and found ourselves
stronger on the other side."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 05:30 AM GMT

EU Condemns Terrorist Attack In Egypt's Sinai Peninsula

LENGTH: 204 words


BRUSSELS (Alliance News) - The EU on Wednesday condemned the massive attack by
Islamic State-linked militants on Egyptian military posts in the restive
northern Sinai Peninsula that has killed at least 50 soldiers.

EU High Representative/Vice-President Federica Mogherini said, "An ongoing
terrorist attack against military posts in northern Sinai has caused a high
number of casualties. We express our condolences to the families of the victims
and the Egyptian authorities. Our thoughts are with the Egyptian people."

Islamic militants, in a coordinated attack, struck several Egyptian army posts,
with fight for Sheikh Zuweid police station still continuing. The attack comes
just two days after Egypt's state prosecutor was killed in Cairo.

Mogherini said, "Violence and murder are the means the terrorists use to try to
undermine our societies, in Europe, in Africa, in the Middle East. We will
remain united in tackling this common threat and together with all those who
respect the value of life."

"As the EU, we are steadfast and resolute in our support for the people and
government of Egypt in the fight against terrorism. The perpetrators and
sponsors of this attack must be brought to justice."

Copyright RTT News/dpa-AFX

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Jordan condemns terrorist attack in Egypt's Sinai

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

(Petra News Agency) -

Amman, July 1 (Petra) -Jordan, Wednesday [1 July], strongly condemned the
terrorist attack on military checkpoints in North Sinai in Egypt.

Minister of State for Media Affairs and government spokesman, Muhammad al-Mumani
reconfirmed Jordan's solidarity with Egypt's government and the people against
terrorism and blind violence, which target the security, safety and stability of
Egypt.

He stressed Jordan's firm and consistent position in rejecting all acts of
violence and terrorism in all its forms, manifestations, motives and sources,
which does not take into account the sanctity of religion, human values and
ethics.

Al Momani called on all countries and leaders to have their say in the face of
terrorism and raise awareness of its dangers and evils.

He offered condolences to the Egyptian government, people and families of the
victims and wished the wounded a speedy recovery.

Earlier, terrorists had attacked military checkpoints in Sinai, killing and
injuring dozens from Egyptian armed forces.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 0030 gmt 2 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Arab League meeting condemns Egypt's Sinai terror attacks

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 2 July: The opening session of the extraordinary meeting of the Arab
League Council held at the permanent delegates' level strongly condemned the
terror attacks targeting the Egyptian army in North Sinai.

The Arab delegates expressed solidarity with the Egyptian leadership,
government, people and army and support for measures taken to fight terrorism.

Addressing the gathering, Egypt's permanent delegate Tariq Adil said the
Egyptian army's response to terror organizations in North Sinai that staged the
attacks Wednesday was harsh.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1218gmt 02 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Jordan condemns Sinai attacks, calls for fighting terror ideologies

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Jordan Times website on 2 July

(Jordan Times) - Amman - Jordan on Wednesday [1 July] strongly denounced the
assault on several military checkpoints in Egypt's North Sinai area, which took
place earlier in the day.

Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications, Muhammad Mumani,
reasserted Jordan's solidarity with the Egyptian government and people in
confronting terrorism and acts of violence, seeking to undermine Egypt's
stability.

Mumani, who is also the government's spokesperson, stressed Jordan's rejection
of all forms of violence and terrorism, regardless of their source or origin,
widely carried by radical forces that "do not heed the sanctity of religion and
have no respect for humanitarian values".

Mumani called on countries to adopt a firm stance against dark ideologies to
increase people's awareness of their perils and threats.

He extended his condolences to the Egyptian government and people and wished the
injured a speedy recovery.

Around 70 people, mostly soldiers, were killed in the militant attacks in North
Sinai and dozens were injured.

Source: Jordan Times website, Amman, in English 2 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Syrian source accuses terrorists of attacking farmers in village

LENGTH: 143 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

(SANA) - Suwayda, SANA - A terrorist group in Jbayib village on the border
between Dar'a and Suwayda provinces set fire to a number of fields and launched
gunfire and mortar attacks on farmers in Al-Kukh area to the west of Ara town,
10 km to the southwest of Suwayda city.

A source in Suwayda province said the attacks left two civilians injured, who
were taken to the National Hospital of Suwayda for treatment.

The source added that the popular defence groups, in cooperation with locals,
confronted the terrorist group's members and destroyed a vehicle for them with
some of them on board.

Three days ago, a terrorist group set ablaze a number of fields to the west of
Ara town, leaving two civilians injured and crops burned.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 2 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 4:38 PM GMT

Special services for Tunisia terror attack victims to be held in Walsall and
Tamworth;
Wallsall FC adn St Editha Church in Tamworth lead national minute's silence in
West Midlands at noon tomorrow (July 3)

BYLINE: By Andy Richardson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 434 words


Special services will be held in Walsall and Tamworth tomorrow (July 3) as the
nation bares its grief in a countrywide silence in memory of those killed in the
Tunisia terror attack.

At Walsall FC, the entire playing squad, along with club staff and officials,
will gather outside the main reception at noon to remember fans Joel Richards,
aged 19, his uncle Adrian Evans, aged 49 and grandfather Patrick Evans, aged 78.

At the same time a service will be held at St Editha Church in Tamworth in
memory of 42-year-old Sue Davey who was killed alongside her partner Scott
Chalkley, also 42.

A minute's silence will be held throughout the country to remember all 38
victims who were killed at the hands of gunman Seifeddine Rezgui including 30
Britons.

With the bodies of all those victims still being flown back to the UK, Sue's
son, Conor Fulford posted on Facebook: "If you want to pay the victims of
Tunisia some respect please go.

"Me and my family will try our best to be there but depends if we have to go and
see our mom come home."

Student Joel, from Wednesbury, was a season-ticket holder at Walsall FC and was
a budding referee.

His uncle Adrian, who worked for Sandwell Council, was also a season-ticket at
Banks's Stadium, whilst his grandfather was a keen follower of the club and a
great lover of football.

A member of the Birmingham County Football Association Referee's Department,
where Joel was a referee, will blow a whistle to mark the start and end of the
minute's silence.

Walsall FC Club Chaplain, Peter Hart, who was a former Walsall player, will then
say a short prayer to mark the end of the proceedings.

Banks's Stadium has become a shrine since the Sousse massacre with scarves,
footballs and shirts from numerous different clubs being left outside the ground
with messages of condolence.

Tunisia terror victim Allison Heathcote, 48, from Felixstowe, who underwent
several hours of surgery for five gunshot wounds after being flown back to the
UK remains in a critical condition at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

Meanwhile investigations into the attack by 23 year-old student Rezgui are
continuing.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

He told the House of Commons: "We are working with the Tunisian authorities to
find out exactly how this outrage last Friday was carried out, how it was
planned, who was involved in it.

"Let the House be in absolutely no doubt, the people who perpetrated the murders
of our constituents are going to be tracked down, whether they are in Libya, in
Syria or anywhere else."

Tunisia attack

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 2:18 PM GMT

Tributes as former Blues player Brian Taylor dies, aged 78, while on holiday
with friends;
Left-winger passed away in same month as ex-Birmingham City team-mate Denis
Thwaites was killed in Tunisa terror attack

BYLINE: By Catherine Lillington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


Tributes have been paid to a former Blues star who died days before one-time
team-mate Denis Thwaites, was murdered in the Tunisian terror attack.

Brian Taylor died suddenly while on holiday with friends in Minorca. He was 78.

The left-winger had joined Birmingham City FC for a fee of £10,000 in 1958 and
stayed at St Andrew's for three years.

Eddie Plumley, a former Blues team-mate, paid tribute to the widower ahead of
his funeral tomorrow.

"Brian was like lightning, the old expression was 'he could catch pigeons',''
said Eddie. "He was very, very, quick.

"In football parlance he had a great left foot, so did Denis Thwaites. He was a
beautiful player, a cultured player.

"They were both at the club at the same time."

Birmingham City will pay tribute to Denis, 70, after he and his Kings Heath-born
wife Elaine, 69, were among the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in the
beach resort of Sousse last Friday.

Eddie, 81, said: "It is an awful coincidence they have died virtually within a
week of each other.

"We'd all lost touch with Denis but then when I saw his picture in the newspaper
it was quite a shock."

Walsall-born Brian signed amateur forms with The Saddlers when he left school in
1952 before going on to become a full-time professional two years later.

He made 78 senior appearances for Walsall, scoring 17 goals, before moving on to
Birmingham City.

Injury halted his progress at St Andrew's, where he remained until October 1961
before he joined Rotherham United.

He went on to play for Shrewsbury Town, Port Vale, Barnsley, Kidderminster
Harriers and Bromsgrove Rovers and ended his career in the early 1970s.

A Walsall FC spokesman said: "The thoughts of everyone here at Walsall FC are
with his family and friends at this sad time."

Former Blues players Winston Foster, Brian Sharples and Graham Sissons are
hoping to attend the funeral, being held at Shrewsbury Crematorium at 11am.

Brian, who lived in Shrewsbury, died on June 10.

He lost his wife Joan 12 years ago and leaves behind a son, Richard.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 11:30 AM GMT

Body of Tunisia terror attack victim Sue Davey flown home as 12 suspects
arrested;
West Bromwich-born mum, her partner and six other victims to be flown to RAF
Brize Norton today

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

LENGTH: 315 words


The bodies of more British holidaymakers killed in the Tunisian beach massacre,
including West Bromwich-born mum Sue Davey, will be flown back to the UK today.

It comes as the Tunisian government said it had arrested 12 suspects in
connection with the atrocity.

The bodies of Ms Davey, who now lives in Tamworth, and her partner Scott
Chalkley, of Derby, are expected to be flown back to RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire today.

A pal of Ms Davey's grieving father - retired local businessman Alan Lloyd -
said he understood the repatriation would take place today and a post-mortem and
inquest opening would follow in London in the next few days.

"A funeral can then be arranged," said the friend of Mr Lloyd.

Eight Britons gunned down in the terror attack were brought back to British soil
on Wednesday.

They included Black Country student Joel Richards, 19, who was killed alongside
his uncle, Sandwell Council worker Adrian Evans, and his grandfather Patrick
Evans at the beach resort of Sousse last Friday.

Joel's brother Owen, 16, survived the attack. Tunisia attack

Mother Suzanne Richards told of her heartbreak. She said: "We are a very small
and normal family, but nothing will ever be normal again.

"My son Joel, dad Pat and brother Adrian were our rocks and we are all
heartbroken and devastated and will never get over losing them."

The bodies of former Birmingham City footballer Denis Thwaites, 70, and his wife
Elaine, 69, were also repatriated on the same flight.

Tearful relatives wept as the flower-covered coffins were taken out of a plane
at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire and loaded into hearses.

Out of the 38 people killed by fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui in the terror attack,
29 have been identified as British while another is believed to be from the UK.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said last night all of the British victims will
be flown back to the UK "over the coming days".

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:04 AM GMT

Black Country Tunisia terror attack victims are being repatriated;
The bodies of Adrian Evans, his nephew Joel Richards, and dad Patrick Evans are
on their way back to the UK along with former Blues player Denis Thwaites and
his wife Elaine

BYLINE: By Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 314 words


The bodies of three generations of the same Black Country family killed by a
gunman on a Tunisian beach, have started their journey home to the West
Midlands.

A military flight containing the bodies Adrian Evans, his nephew Joel Richards,
and grandfather Charles Evans have now left Tunis airport.

The family, from Tipton and Wednesbury, were gunned-down IS fanatic Seifeddine
Rezgui on the Sousse beach on Friday, while Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen
survived the massacre.

The C-17 military transport aircraft is bound for Brize Norton in Oxfordshire
and is expected to arrive at 3pm.

It is also carrying the bodies of five other Britons killed: Carly Lovett,
Stephen Mellor, John Stollery and Denis and Elaine Thwaites.

Denis, a former Birmingham-City footballer, had arrived in Tunisia with wife
Elaine just 48 hours before the attack.

The flight set off as Prime Minister David Cameron told MPs that 27 British
nationals had been confirmed dead.

But that figure is expected rise, as 30 of the 38 shot people dead in Sousse are
thought to be Britons.

In Prime Ministers Questions today David Cameron told the House of Commons: "Let
me update the House. I am sad to say the confirmed number of British citizens
killed in this appalling attack is now 27, and as we have said we do expect it
to rise still further.

"Today, we are repatriating eight bodies from Tunisia on an RAF C-17 plane.

"That plane is now in the air and it will land at RAF Brize Norton this
afternoon.

"Every family of a victim now has a dedicated Foreign Office liaison officer but
I can confirm what you asked - I have asked the Cabinet Secretary for advice on
creating a ministerial committee to ensure work is properly co-ordinated right
across Government to provide all the support the victims of this appalling
attack deserve, and also to make sure that as a nation we mark and commemorate
this event appropriately."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                  July 2, 2015
                                   Edition 1;

FAMILY HAVE REBUILT LIVES IN FIONA'S MEMORY;
7/7 TERROR ATTACK ANNIVERSARY ; The sister of London bombings victim tells how
they have coped through decade after the atrocity

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


FULL STORY PAGES 4-5 ? Andrea Watson, centre, .with her parents Ivan and Emer at
a fundraising event for the charity in the name of Fiona Stevenson and (left)
how we covered Fiona's death back in 2005

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHC


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                  July 2, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack was 'an act of terrorism'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 433 words


THE family of Dr Sarandev Singh Bhambra say he is the victim of an 'act of
terrorism'.

Their statement was read outside Mold Crown Court after Zack Davies was
convicted of his attempted murder in a Tesco supermarket.

Speaking on behalf of the family, Dr Bhambra's brother, Tarlochan Singh Bhambra,
a doctor, criticised the lack of national media coverage of the shocking attack
in January and expressed disappointment at Tesco's failure to publicly condemn
the incident.

He said: "We are in no doubt that had the racial disposition been reversed this
would have been reported as an act of terror with a wider media coverage.

"By his own admission the defendant, Zack Davies, had neo-Nazi views and is a
member of a white supremacist organisation. We are in no doubt given the racial
and political motivations that this should rightly be defined as an act of
terrorism. Sarandev was singled out because of the colour of his skin.

"The media has a responsibility and an obligation to report these aspects of
this trial and bring to the fore the major implications of these.

"All extremist groups, including white supremacists as in this case that
advocate racially motivated hatred and violence on innocent people, should be
dealt with as terrorists."

The family went on to criticise Tesco which has 'yet to publicly distance
themselves from this cowardly act of racial terrorism'. They did however praise
the bravery of Peter Fuller, a former soldier from Mold who stepped in to save
the life of the 24-year-old dentist by persuading Davies to put down his
weapons.

Dr Bhambra said: "We are indebted and will be forever grateful to Mr Peter
Fuller who risked his own safety to save Sarandev from this wanton act of
terror. We are in no doubt that Mr Fuller's actions, coupled with Sarandev's
strength and agility, saved his life."

The family went on to thank North Wales Police, emergency teams and the medical
teams at both the Countess of Chester and Wrexham Maelor hospitals for their
'excellent care' and the staff at Tesco's for their help in the aftermath of the
attack Dr Bhambra added: "He [Sarandev] is a young man that we are immensely
proud of, and has just started out on his chosen career path as a dentist and
was initially based at North Wales.

"Sarandev was singled out because of his race and was brutally attacked from
behind with devastating force. This cowardly assault has left him with life
changing injuries. Sarandev is currently undergoing an extensive programme of
rehabilitation."

The family said they were especially moved by the messages and support from the
public and people of Mold.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr Tarlochan Singh Bhanbra, .right, reads out his family's statement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHC


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 3:17 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Russell Brand calls minute's silence to victims
'pointless';
Russell Brand launched the attack in an online video, blaming the British
Government for the atrocity which claimed the life of Gateshead's Lisa Burbidge

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


Controversial comedian Russell Brand has said there is "no point" paying tribute
to the victims of the Tunisia terror attack that left a Gateshead gran dead.

Lisa Burbidge was on holiday in Sousse when she, along with 26 other Britons,
were murdered by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui on June 26.

But former Big Brother's Big Mouth presenter Brand slammed a minute's silence -
planned for tomorrow in honour of the 27 Brits so far confirmed dead - as "total
bull".

In the bizarre YouTube rant, Brand said there was "no point" paying tribute to
those killed in Rezgui's murderous rampage because it was Britain's fault.

Mrs Burbidge was killed on the tenth anniversary of the death of her husband
Bill and the Whickham community is still in shock over the attack.

Comic turned activist Brand blamed the atrocity on Britain's policy of selling
arms abroad, as well as carrying out military interventions and bombing
campaigns overseas.

Read more: Whickham memorial planned for gran who was victim of shootings

The 40-year-old said: "There is no point in having a minute's silence on Friday.

"It's a minute of bulls***.

"If you respect those people then demand that your Government stops selling arms
to countries on its own human rights abuse list, demand that your Government
stops carrying out foreign wars on behalf of corporations.

"It will have a lot more impact than a minute's silence."

Brand was speaking in a YouTube video called "Tunisia Minute Of Silence, Total
Bulls***".

Sitting on the edge of a bed, he says to the camera: "The religion is not what's
important. What is important is the maintenance of power."

David Cameron on the terror attacks in Tunisia

He accused David Cameron of orchestrating foreign policy to protect "America and
giant corporations and arms dealers and oil companies" instead of "ordinary"
people of the world.

"If we want to attack the problem at its source this is the source," he said.
"Stop bombing those foreign countries.

"Stop selling arms to countries on your own human rights abuse list. You have
got to stop perpetuating the problem."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:30 PM GMT

Silverstone security on high alert for British Grand Prix after Tunisia terror
attack

BYLINE: Simon Cass

LENGTH: 183 words


SILVERSTONE'S security is on "high alert" for this weekend's British Grand Prix
in the wake of the terrorist massacre in Tunisia.

With a record crowd of 140,000 expected for Sunday's race, Silverstone's bosses
and Northamptonshire police are leaving nothing to chance following the attack
by an Islamist gunman at the beach resort of Sousse last week.

A spokesperson for the circuit said: "Because it is a major high level sporting
event we were already on high alert.

"The level of the threat in the UK is severe and it has not changed.

"We have had a risk assessment by Northamptonshire police and security is based
on that assessment."

Plainclothes police and security staff will monitor the sprawling site.

Sniffer dogs will also patrol the circuit and the paddock area where the team's
huge hospitality facilities are based.

Related articles Toto Wolff: Nico Rosberg has made fools of his critics Button
will never win British Grand Prix, says former Silverstone champ Herbert Jenson
Button: Just finishing at Silverstone would be good, I can only do my best

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 4:46 PM GMT

Bodies of all four Scottish victims of Tunisian beach massacre return to the UK;

JIM and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, and Billy and Lisa Graham, from
Perthshire, were all killed in the terror attack at the Sousse beach resort last
Friday.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 313 words


THE Scottish victims of the Tunisian massacre have been returned to the UK.

An RAF C17 transport plane carrying the remains of Jim and Ann McQuire, from
Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, and Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, near
Perth, touched down at the Brize Norton air base in Oxfordshire.

British nationals made up the majority of the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse
on Friday - along with three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian.

A national minute's silence will be held at 12pm tomorrow, one week on from the
incident.

There will be a gathering at Abronhill Church in Cumbernauld at the same time,
where Mr McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were members.

Rev Joyce Keyes, who asked for privacy at the event, paid a fresh tribute to "a
kind and gentle couple who will be sorely missed".

She said: "We have been overwhelmed by expressions of support from those who
loved this exceptional couple and many more messages from those who simply
shared in our grief.

"Ann and Jim were a kind and gentle couple who will be sorely missed by our
congregation; for their willingness to share their musical talents, for their
contributions to the Boys' Brigade and for the fellowship we shared."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

The Grahams were visiting the resort to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th birthday and
a candlelit vigil is to be held in their memory.

A "Bankfoot get together" in memory of the couple will take place at Innewan
Gardens Park at 7pm tomorrow, with those attending asked to bring a candle in a
jar to place in the park.

Seven other Britons killed were on today's flight while eight others were
brought back to British soil yesterday and further flights are expected tomorrow
and Saturday.

Tunisia beach massacre victims flown back to UK

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 1:23 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Bodies of four Scots killed in beach massacre to be flown
home by RAF;
JIM and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, and Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot,
died in the attack at the Sousse beach resort last Friday.

BYLINE: By Ashleigh McGinley

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 314 words


THE Scottish victims of the Tunisian massacre will be repatriated today.

Downing Street said the four are among nine bodies being returned to the UK
later.

Deputy First Minister John Swinney is expected to be present at RAF Brize Norton
in Oxfordshire for the repatriation.

Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, and Billy and Lisa
Graham, from Bankfoot, near Perth, died in the attack at the Sousse beach resort
last Friday.

Seifeddine Rezgui, a 23-year-old student, shot dead 38 people on the beach in
the atrocity.

A minute's silence will be held at 12pm tomorrow, one week on from the incident.

There will be a gathering at Abronhill Church in Cumbernauld at the same time,
where Mr McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were members.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Rev Joyce Keyes, who asked for privacy at the event, paid a fresh tribute to "a
kind and gentle couple who will be sorely missed".

She said: "We have been overwhelmed by expressions of support from those who
loved this exceptional couple and many more messages from those who simply
shared in our grief.

"Ann and Jim were a kind and gentle couple who will be sorely missed by our
congregation; for their willingness to share their musical talents, for their
contributions to the Boys' Brigade and for the fellowship we shared."

The Grahams were visiting the resort to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th birthday and
a candlelit vigil is to be held in their memory.

A "Bankfoot get together" in memory of the couple will take place at Innewan
Gardens Park at 7pm tomorrow, with those attending asked to bring a candle in a
jar to place in the park.

Eight Britons killed in the terror attack were brought back to British soil
yesterday and further flights are expected tomorrow and Saturday.

Tunisia beach massacre victims flown back to UK

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 01/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:58 AM GMT

Humza Yousaf: Perpetrators of brutal terror attacks do NOT act in name of any
religion;
HUMZA sends his condolences to every single family member and friend of those
killed or injured in the brutal attacks on Tunisia, Kuwait and France.

BYLINE: By Humza Yousaf

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 557 words


ONCE again, across the world, we are mourning the loss of life in a number of
brutal terror attacks on Tunisia, Kuwait and France.

My sympathies and condolences go out to every single family members and friend
of those killed or injured by such cowardly attacks.

I have no doubt that everyone reading this is already assured, but it always
bears repeating that the perpetrators of these attacks do not act in the name of
any religion. They may have been claimed by extremist groups who misappropriate
the word "Islam", and they may use flags with Arabic writing, but these ruthless
actions are diametrically opposed to the principles of the religion I and over
1.5 billion people across the world practice each day.

That is why our SNP MPs have joined a cross-party campaign at Westminster to
stop press, officials and news outlets using titles such as ISIS, ISIL or
Islamic State - urging them, instead, to refer to them as "Daesh". Daesh is an
Arabic word which is already used to refer to the groups calling themselves ISIS
and ISIL in in Middle Eastern countries and, more recently, by the French
Government. It is considered by many to have negative connotations.

This is far from pedantry - it is about delegitimising their claim on the
Islamic faith or indeed of being a State. We cannot have a situation where
children and adults most frequently hear or read the word "Islam" in the news
when reporting the activities of evil, un-Islamic terrorist organisations. I am
pleased that many parliamentarians and journalists now seem to have chosen to
start using the term Daesh instead.

Brutal acts of violence like these are always devastating and it certainly hits
closer to home that so many British citizens - including two Scottish couples -
were murdered in Sousse. However, these particular attacks were orchestrated to
shake us to our core and, while we must be able to reflect and grieve, we must
not allow those who attempt to terrorise us divide communities.

Those who commit these senseless acts of violence peddle a narrative that there
is a war between Islam & the West - nothing could be further from the truth. The
real battle is between those who believe in pluralism, celebrating diversity,
humanity and those who oppose those values. The wrong reaction to terrorism is
to unnecessarily curb back on people's civil liberty and freedoms - that will
only give ammunition to extremists.

Earlier this year, after attack on Charlie Hebdo's headquarters in Paris, we
rallied and held signs proclaiming "je suis Charlie". Faced with terrorists who
want to silence and censor a satirical newspaper, our defiance was to be louder
than ever in our support of the free press.

This despicable attack on holidaymakers who were at their most vulnerable,
exposed and relaxed is clearly intended to inhibit another freedom - the freedom
to travel, to see the world as your oyster. While planning trips we must always
follow the travel recommendations of the Foreign Office, but, this time, our
defiance should be to continue to wander the world, learning about different
cultures and making friends wherever we go.

My most heartfelt condolences go out the families of Jim and Anne McQuire and
Billy and Lisa Graham, and all those who lost loved ones in last week's
senseless attacks.

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 01/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Body of Hampshire victim of Tunisian terror attack flown back from UK

BYLINE: Patrick Knox

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 228 words


THE body of a Hampshire man killed in the Tunisian beach massacre has arrived
back in the UK today.

David Thompson, 80, was one of 30 British victims who died in the attack by
gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in Sousse on Friday.

The Foreign Office said the body of Mr Thompson was one of eight returned to the
UK today on an RAF C17 military transport plane.

The plane landed at the Brize Norton airbase in Oxfordshire.

Eight Britons killed in the terror attack were brought back to British soil
earlier, and further flights are expected.

British nationals made up most of the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui when
he opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse on Friday -
along with three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and
one Russian.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "We now have all 30 British victims
positively identified and we can say with a high degree of confidence that is
now the final death toll of British nationals killed in this incident."

As the hunt continued for accomplices believed to have helped Rezgui carry out
the atrocity, the Tunisian government said it had arrested 12 suspects.

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Mr Thompson lived in The Green in Tadley.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Dereham and Fakenham Times

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Couple tells of terror of gun attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 607 words


A Dereham couple has described how they cowered in a kitchen, fearing for their
lives, during the terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Dale and Emma Jackson stayed at the Hotel Imperial Marhaba in Tunisia which was
attacked last week.

Along with Mrs Jackson's parents Tony and Christine Hines, from Toftwood, they
had flown out of Norwich Airport to enjoy an "idyllic" holiday in the sun.



Mr Jackson, 48, said: "We were down by the beach bar and had just had a round of
drinks and I decided to get us another beer at about 11.45am.

"I walked round to queue up when I hear what I thought was fireworks on the
beach.

"The four of us were in close proximity to where it started.

"I heard a big explosion so I popped my head round expecting to see flashes in
the sky but there was just people screaming and running."

Mrs Jackson, 43, said: "Dad had followed Dale to the bar and me and mum were at
the table when we heard what for some reason I thought was a bird scarer.

"People were freaking out and I thought they were just overreacting as people
sometimes do.

"Then I saw a man run past us and fall down as he was shot.

"I grabbed mum and ran to the toilet and hid there."

As Mr Jackson realised what was unfolding around him one of the chefs at the bar
grabbed him and pulled him in to the kitchen to hide.

Mrs Jackson said: "I think we were all sure each other were goners except for me
and mum who were together."

While they were sheltering in the bathrooms a woman came running in screaming
and Mrs Jackson decided it was time to make a move in case a gunman was looking
for them.

Along with her mother she made her way to the cold room where her husband was
hiding but her father was still nowhere to be seen.

She said: "There were probably about eight of us in this cold room lying down.

"There were the three of us together expecting the door to be opened by a
gunman.

"I told mum if the worst happens just pretend to be dead. That was the best we
could hope for, to be shot in the leg and pretend to be dead, there was nowhere
else to go."

After about 45 minutes hotel staff came and persuaded the shocked tourists to
leave the safety of the cold room and head towards the hotel.

Mr Jackson then went in search of his father-in-law.

"I didn't want Christine to find her dead husband lying there," he said. "There
were three guys on sun beds who were about his age and build.

"One was bleeding a lot and moaning a bit and the other two were dead but none
of them were Tony."

Mrs Jackson said: "As we walked up towards the hotel we could see bodies and I
thought I was going to stumble across dad."

They made it into the hotel lobby where the front doors had been blown to pieces
and a glass table shattered.

Mrs Jackson said: "There were people running about and shouting and because the
language is foreign you didn't know if it was good or if they were coming back.

"We were standing there asking, 'where is Tony?'"

Mr Jackson said: "Then he just appeared and we all ran to him and we all got a
bit upset."

Mr Hines had inadvertently gone to the other side of the bar from his son-in-law
which meant he had a good view of the killer and was able to flee.

After escaping to the hotel he managed to shut himself in a bedroom where he was
able to watch the drama unfold.

With the support of travel agent Thomson the family were able to return to the
UK in the early hours of Saturday morning.

Mrs Jackson said: "It hasn't sunk in. It probably will at some point but at the
moment I just feel numb. I feel empty inside.

"We are lucky that four of us went and four of us came back."

Were you or anyone you know affected by the Tunisia attacks? Write to
doug.faulkner@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DFT


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dudley News

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Friends of Tunisian beach terror attack victim Joel Richards launch fund to help
family

BYLINE: Bev Holder

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 227 words


FRIENDS of tragic Black Country teenager Joel Richards who was killed along with
his uncle and grandfather in the Tunisian beach terror attack have started a
fund to help surviving family members.

Pals in Netherton and Sedgley have been left in shock over the massacre which
claimed the life of football referee Joel, aged 19, from Wednesbury.

University of Worcester student Joel, who refereed at matches around the
borough, who was killed alongside his uncle Adrian Evans, aged 49, and
grandfather Patrick Evans, aged 78, when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui brought terror
to the holiday resort of Sousse last Friday (June 26) and left 38 people dead.

To help Joel's devastated mum Suzanne and 16-year-old brother Owen, who survived
the attack, friends have set up an online fundraising page and they have raised
more than £5,500 in just four days.

Alex Shaw, aged 22, from Stourbridge, said: "Our initial target was £1,000 but
within four-and-a-half hours we'd already raised £1,500. It's unreal. We've had
donations from Premier League refs, the RAF and the Football Association and
people across the world. It's taken off really well. We just want to keep it
going and get as much money as possible."

He added: "We'll deliver it to Joel's mum to use for travel, funeral costs or
anything."

Anyone wishing to make a donation can go to http://www.gofundme.com/Joelrichards

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

North Walsham woman injured in Tunisia terrorist attack 'comfortable and
awaiting further surgery' at Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 85 words


A North Walsham woman injured in the Tunisian beach massacre is receiving
treatment at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital. Christine Callaghan,
62, was described yesterday by an N&N spokesman as "comfortable and awaiting
further surgery".

She and her husband Tony were at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse when a Tunisian
student shot dozens of tourists on Friday. Mrs Callaghan received a non
life-threatening gunshot wound to her leg and was separated from her husband,
63, after they ran towards the hotel.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:43 PM GMT

British GP on high terrorism alert over fears of attack at Silverstone

BYLINE: Gary Chappell at Silverstone

LENGTH: 606 words


SECURITY has been stepped up at Silverstone ahead of the British Grand Prix in
the wake of the Tunisia beach massacre.

GETTY

Fears over a terror attack means safety has been stepped up to protect fans and
drivers

As bodies of the British holidaymakers slayed in last Friday's terrorist attack
in Sousse were flown back to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday - just 40
miles from the circuit - sniffer dogs have been brought in and heightened
security checks implemented in a bid to prevent extremists carrying out a
similar attack on one of the country's biggest sporting events.

MI5 have put the UK under a "severe" terror alert - the second highest before
"critical" - meaning an attack is "highly likely" as the 10th anniversary of the
7/7 bombings looms.

A Silverstone spokesman said: "Because it is a major high-level sporting event,
we are already on high alert. The level of the threat in the UK is 'severe' and
it has not changed. We have had a risk assessment by Northamptonshire police and
security is based on that assessment."

Superintendent Mick Stamper of Northamptonshire police, in charge of policing
the British Grand Prix, said: "We remain vigilant to any threat and we would
encourage members of the public to report any suspicious activity they may see.
As ever, we are ready to respond to any threat the presents itself."

Victory here at Silverstone is something that has evaded one of Britain's finest
drivers, however. Jenson Button has not even finished on the podium and, with
McLaren continuing to struggle, many within the sport have suggested this could
be the 2009 world champion's final British Grand Prix.

"If I retired right now, I'd be pretty happy with my career in terms of
achievements," he said. "But I would love to win the British Grand Prix - I
would love to be even on the podium.

"Before Sochi [the Russian Grand Prix] came along last year, I had been on the
podium at pretty much every race apart from this one. It is a shame because I
can imagine it's an unbelievable emotional experience that you share with all
the fans out there. And I have never been able to do that.

"Last year probably hurt the most because I thought we had a good chance of
getting a podium even though our car wasn't very quick. It has always been a
tricky one for me and it's not through not having enough speed or not enjoying
the place, I love the circuit to drive, it has just not worked out."

But after his dad John died suddenly of a heart attack last year, Button is
happy to simply savour the memories, win or lose.

GETTY

Jenson Button has never won at Silverstone and would love to add it to his
collection of wins

"I decided early last year that you should live in the moment a lot more," he
said. "You have to savour certain moments because you take them for granted -
all of us do.

"I am not going into this race thinking this is going to be my last British
Grand Prix because what does that change? It changes nothing in my life. It's
not going to help my career or hurt my career.

"I go into this grand prix looking forward to it. I always love coming here. I
know it is going to be the busiest week of my life but it is also one of the
best weeks.

"Whatever happens in the race this weekend I will get on the stage and it will
be full of fans of F1 and hopefully of McLaren and we will have a wicked 20
minutes on stage where it's just a great rapport and great atmosphere."

Related articles Lewis Hamilton takes 'team' out for a spin after partying with
Kendall Jenner & Gigi Hadid Brit star Will Stevens ready to erase bad memories
in British GP debut Jenson Button rules out move from Formula One to Formula E

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 8:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: More British victims of beach massacre return home

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 679 words


THE bodies of another nine British tourists killed in last week's massacre on a
Tunisian beach have been returned to the UK.

PA

The coffins of the nine Britons were carried by military staff today

RAF planes arrived back from north Africa today with coffins carrying Lisa and
William Graham, Philip Heathcote, Trudy Jones, Ann and James McQuire, Janet and
John Stocker, and David Thompson.

In a sombre ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire the victims were loaded
into hearses before being driven off.

It comes as the Government confirmed the British death toll from the killing in
Sousse had risen to 30 out of the 38 holidaymakers shot by Seifeddine Rezgui.

The coffins were topped with floral arrangements and carried from the C-17 plane
by military personnel from the RAF Regiment's Queen Colour.

Relatives of the victims watched their family members being brought back to
British soil.

It follows the first eight Britons who were killed in the terror attack
returning to the UK yesterday.

Among the 38 killed was also three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian,
one Portuguese and a Russian.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "We now have all 30 British victims
positively identified and we can say with a high degree of confidence that is
now the final death toll of British nationals killed in this incident."

PA

The RAF plane arriving in the UK today Related articles  Football chief leads
tributes to Scots killed by Tunisia terrorist  Russell Brand sparks fury after
blasting minute's silence for...

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice revealed all the Britons killed were
customers of the firms.

Tunisian police have arrested 12 people following the attack. They are accused
of assisting Rezgui, who was killed at the scene by security forces.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

Mr Fallon told the House of Commons: "We are working with the Tunisian
authorities to find out exactly how this outrage last Friday was carried out,
how it was planned, who was involved in it.

PA

Michael Fallon speaking at the House of Commons today

"Let the House be in absolutely no doubt, the people who perpetrated the murders
of our constituents are going to be tracked down, whether they are in Libya, in
Syria or anywhere else."

Heartbreaking backgrounds of those who returned today were revealed.

Mr McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were from Cumbernauld in North Lanarkshire,
where vicar Joyce Keyes described them as a "kind and gentle couple".

Mr and Mrs Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth, were visiting Tunisia to celebrate
Mrs Graham's 50th birthday.

Mr Heathcote, 52, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, was celebrating his 30th wedding
anniversary with wife Allison, 48, who was seriously injured in the attack and
has been flown back to Britain by the RAF for treatment.

Ms Jones, of Blackwood in Gwent, south Wales, was described by her family as
"our beautiful mother". She was a 51-year-old divorced single mother-of-four and
had been on holiday with her friends.

PA

Photos of the victims who brought back today

Mr Stocker, 74, was a retired printer, born and bred in Peckham, south-east
London, and was a father of five children and had 10 grandchildren, while Mrs
Stocker, 63, was born and raised with her two brothers in Fulham, south-west
London.

Mr Thompson, 80, from Tadley, Hampshire, was a retired scientist at the Atomic
Weapons Establishment.

Wounded Britons - including four with severe injuries - have already been
brought back to the UK for treatment at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford,
Plymouth and London.

A minute's silence for those who died will be observed tomorrow, while flags
will be flown at half-mast over Parliament and Buckingham Palace.

The first inquests into the deaths of the Britons are due to open tomorrow at
West London Coroners Court.

Related articles WhatsApp faces MAJOR change after terrorist attack Tunisia
terror attack: Man wanted in connection with beach massacre is heading for
EUROPE Russell Brand sparks fury after blasting minute's silence for Tunisia
dead as 'bulls***'

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 7:11 PM GMT

Tunisia faces MORE terror attacks as bars and airports are on Islamic State
hitlist

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 484 words


ISLAMIC State supporters have taken to social networks to urge for a summer of
attacks in Tunisia.

AP·GETTY

Seifeddine Rezgiu, who killed 38 tourists on the Tunisian beach last week

Experts monitoring the internet have seen a number of threats made by the terror
group, which was behind last week's brutal killing of 38 tourists in Sousse.

Westerners were called "legitimate targets" in documents issued by Tunisian ISIS
supporters, who said bars and an airport would now be targeted.

Sergio Altuna Galan, a researcher at the Global Security Institute think-tank,
told the Independent: "There were many warning signs, and yes there will be
other attacks.

"Very, very dangerous things await Tunisia."

Threats on Twitter included one from an ISIS-linked account who chillingly said
he planned to come to Tunisia "this summer" alongside images of a masked gunman.

AP

30 Brits died in the Sousse attack

There was also a warning to Muslims that terrorists were going to launch an
attack on a flight of national airline Tunisair. However, this was deleted after
discussions led to the conclusion that Islamists would inevitably die.

Militants are attempting to destabilise the Tunisian government by attacking the
country's tourism.

The latest attack has already seen thousands of holidaymakers leave Tunisia.

The threatening ISIS document released in March said: "People of Tawhid
[accepting one God], as has been said there are Christians coming to your home
under the guise of tourism and there are many Jews in our country and there is
the apostate army - and all whom we mention are legitimate targets for your
men."

AP

Police patrols have been stepped up in the tourists hotspots of Tunisia Related
articles Britain could join allied air strikes in Syria in bid to destroy
Islamic State fanatics Tables turned on ISIS as Syrians video mass beheadings of
captured jihadis Tunisia terror attack: 12 suspects arrested over beach massacre
Girl, 15, arrested on terror offence in East London

The threats have been played down by the authorities in the north African
country, despite it already suffering two terror attacks from ISIS this summer.

As well as the Sousse killings there was also an attack in March on the Bardo
Museum in Tunis, which left 20 people dead.

It was previously attributed to an al-Qaeda splinter group but was now believed
to have been carried out by ISIS.

The latest warnings come as 12 suspects were arrested over the Sousse beach
massacre.

Police in Tunisia are still hunting two more men who were suspected to training
at a Libyan terror camp with gunman Seifeddine Rezgiu who shot down the
tourists.

Yesterday eight British fatalities from the Sousse attack were flown back to the
UK by the RAF.

So far 30 of the tourists who died are believed to be British.

And today gruesome images emerged of depraved ISIS militants cutting off the
hands of men who were accused of stealing livestock in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:13 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 12 suspects arrested over beach massacre

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 344 words


TWELVE suspects have been arrested in connection with Friday's horrifying terror
attack in Tunisia.

REUTERS·GETTY

Tunisia's special forces secure the beachside of the Imperial Marhaba resort

The country's authorities revealed they are still hunting two more men suspected
of training in a Libyan terror camp with crazed gunman Seifeddine Rezgiu who
gunned down 39 tourists, mostly British holidaymakers, at a resort in Sousse.

In March, gunmen Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui killed 21 people at the
Tunis Bardo museum, before they were also shot.

Lazhar Akremi, minister for parliamentary relations, said: "This is a group who
were trained in Libya, and who had the same objective. Two attacked the Bardo
and one attacked Sousse.

"Police are hunting for two more."

It comes as a RAF plane returns to Tunisia to continue the operation to
repatriate the bodies of Britons killed in the deadly massacre.

So far, 29 of the 38 tourists shot dead by Seifeddine Rezgui have been
identified as British - and police are still trying to confirm the nationality
of a 30th person also believed to be from the UK.

PA

The repatriation process is expected to continue over the the next coming days

Yesterday the bodies of eight British people were flown back home to the UK.

The flight contains the bodies of Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards,
Carly Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites.

The bodies of those killed in the terror attack will be released to their
bereaved families as soon as possible after post-mortem examinations have been
carried out, the chief coroner has said.

A minute's silence will be held in memory of the victims at noon tomorrow, a
week after the outrage.

Flags are expected to be flown at half-mast over Government departments and
Buckingham Palace on the same day.

Related articles Returning home: Bodies of EIGHT Britons massacred in Tunisia
arrive back in UK Tunisia terror attack: Man wanted in connection with beach
massacre is heading for EUROPE British death toll from Tunisia beach terror
attack rises to 29

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 5:07 PM GMT

London Has Fallen attacked for 'insensitivity' by 7/7 victims' trust;
Twitter users also question timing of first look at disaster movie sequel days
before the 10th anniversary of terrorist attack and in the wake of massacre in
Tunisia

BYLINE: Ben Child

SECTION: FILM

LENGTH: 305 words


The chairman of an organisation set up to honour the memories of the victims of
the 7/7 terrorist strike on London has labelled a new trailer for the Hollywood
disaster movie London Has Fallen "extremely insensitive".

Babak Najafi 's film, a big budget sequel to 2013 action thriller Olympus Has
Fallen, stars Gerard Butler, Aaron Eckhart and Morgan Freeman in the story of an
attack on the capital. Chair of the 7/7 Memorial Trust, Philip Nelson, said the
timing of the trailer's release was wrong just a few days before the 10th
anniversary of Britain's worst terrorist strike of recent times.

"This is not the first time that Hollywood has been insensitive," he told the
Mirror. "If the story is about terrorism then this is extremely insensitive.
People have also recently died of a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Related: 7/7 London bombings: capital to mark 10th anniversary of terror attacks

"I have seen an image of Big Ben with the clock face blown out, that's also
insensitive. "[Our Trust] has had lots of help from America so I just think that
these are the wrong images to portray. Is the summer the best time to be
promoting this film anyway?"

It was not clear whether Nelson contacted the Mirror to express his concerns or
was approached for a comment by a reporter seeking to put together a story.
However, the trailer for London Has Fallen has also provoked upset on Twitter.

Fifty-two people died and more than 700 were injured in the bombings at Russell
Square, Edgware Road, Aldgate and Tavistock Square, London on 7 July 2005.
Survivors and relatives of those who died will join the prime minister, David
Cameron, the London mayor, Boris Johnson, other politicians and members of the
emergency services at memorial events next week.

London is Fallen is due to be released in the US on 22 January.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Trevor Bayliss lives up to reputation with measured words not hyperbole;
England's new Australian coach, who was on the Sri Lanka team bus attacked by
terrorists in 2006, knows how to keep cricket in perspective

BYLINE: Ali Martin

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 894 words


"If you look in history at the best players in the world, they've all been
self-reliant," said the bespectacled and slightly bestubbled Trevor Bayliss,
decked out in an official England training top and speaking the first time in
his new role as head coach, on a sweltering Wednesday at Lord's. "Not only are
they single-minded and they know what to do off the field and how to prepare,
they are able to make decisions for themselves out on the ground rather than
look to the coaching staff for an answer."

And so, the rumours are seemingly true. In the five weeks since Bayliss was
appointed by England's director of cricket, Andrew Strauss, the void has been
filled by the ringing endorsements of those players who have worked under the
52-year-old Australian.

Eoin Morgan, Mahela Jayawardene, Brendon McCullum and Brad Haddin - disciples of
his regimes at Kolkata Knight Riders, Sri Lanka and New South Wales - have
talked up his ability to empower cricketers by keeping their dressing room calm
and delivering concise, considered messages without ever going down the route of
hyperbole, or, as Morgan put it, "bullshit".

"I keep things simple. At the top level it's about creating a good environment,"
Bayliss continued. "If you've got a good, honest, hard-working environment where
players enjoy what they're doing, it allows them to go out with less pressure
and show off the skills they've got."

These words could have been delivered by Paul Farbrace, who is reunited with
Bayliss six years after their time together in the Sri Lanka set-up and who
seemingly began the unshackling of England's cricketers while they awaited the
permanent replacement to Peter Moores. "He will be my eyes and ears early on
while I get to know the system and the players," said Bayliss, who admitted his
old friend played a part in convincing him to up sticks from Sydney and start a
new life in the mother country. "He is a good coach as well. I'm very lucky to
have him."

The pair have been through more than just cricket together, of course, having
both been on the team bus that was attacked by terrorists in Lahore in 2009 and
saw six policemen and two civilians killed.

"I certainly remember when the bombs and the bullets were flying around," he
said, while demonstrating he was just a matter of inches from being struck.
"There was nothing you could do except keep your head down and your arse up."

Bayliss admits that ordeal, along with the tragic death of the batsman Phillip
Hughes last November when playing for South Australia against his New South
Wales side, has shaped his outlook on life and keeps the cricket fully in
perspective.

Having left his dual roles in Australia and Kolkata following a £400,000-a-year
offer from Strauss - an approach he neither courted nor expected having agreed
contract extensions at both - Bayliss will not be joined by his wife and two
children for at least 12 months because of his 17-year-old daughter's final year
at school.

Now, with a working visa secured, the former first-class batsman can familiarise
himself with their new home and continue passing on a message of
self-determination to his players that began during their four-day training camp
in Spain over the weekend.

"One of my philosophies is that the best coaches are the other 10 players in the
team," he said. "The younger players look up to those older players and learn
from them. If you're watching the right things, listening to those players,
asking the right questions, you will learn more about the game actually
competing than you will from any coach."

Whether this player-led approach, the green shoots of which were evident against
New Zealand, can bring about an Ashes victory this summer remains to be seen,
with just seven days now until the first Test in Cardiff. Much has been made of
his inside knowledge of Michael Clarke's tourists, with nine of his former
charges in their 17-man touring party. Yet again, it comes down those who take
the field.

"There are enough guys in the England team with enough experience and who have
played these guys plenty of times before," Bayliss said.

How will he feel when the national anthems blare out at the Swalec Stadium just
as the sledging-heavy pre-series hype turns into actual bat on ball action? "I
am old enough that in the first seven or eight years I was at school I sang God
Save the Queen so I know most of the words and probably more than I do of our
own at the moment," he joked.

While Bayliss has worked with the one-day captain, Morgan, at Kolkata, his
relationship with Test equivalent Alastair Cook is just days old. Asked if he
rated his new ally's abilities as a leader, he replied: "I've not seen him up
close or worked with him before. What I will say is that it is a lot easier from
the captain's point of view if the team are playing a good, positive brand of
cricket."

And the overall objective? "Like any other team worth their salt we want to be
No1 in Test matches, ODIs and T20s. If you haven't got those aspirations I think
you're kidding yourself."

With a CV that includes two Sheffield Shields, two IPL titles, winning the Big
Bash League at Sydney Sixers and two ICC limited-overs finals with Sri Lanka,
success has followed everywhere Bayliss has worked. To make that hot streak to
continue, England's players will be told to stand on their own two feet. There
will be no spoon-feeding.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:51 AM GMT

7/7 attacks: 'Lone wolf' terror attack is still a huge problem for Britain;
Lord Blair says terror attack by the biggest concern for the country

BYLINE: Alexandra Sims

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 361 words


The threat of a terror attack by a "lone wolf" unknown to the security services
is the single biggest problem for the UK, according to a former top police
chief.

Lord Blair, the head of the Met Police during the 7/7 attacks in 2005, said that
a "single individual with no previous contact" was now the biggest concern for
the country.

Speaking on BBC Newsnight ahead of the 10-year anniversary of attacks, in which
52 people were killed by suicide bombers while traveling on London transport,
Lord Blair said that terror threats had "in some ways lessened" since then
"because the security services and police have been able to develop techniques
which have thwarted a lot."

"But," he said, "as it evolves into what is sometimes called 'lone wolf', 'clean
skin', that is a huge problem, because the more people you have in a conspiracy
the more chances are somebody is going to find out about it."

"It is still this horrible sense of a random threat sitting out there somewhere,
as in Tunisia, if you just happened to be on the beach, in the wrong place at
the wrong time."

Read more: If terror came to LondonAnti-terror training exercise Q&ATunisia
attack: Gunman 'trained at terror camp in Libya'

Lord Blair, who was the UK's most senior police officer between 2005 and 2008
and is now a crossbench peer, said that the "lone wolf" threat made working with
the Muslim community imperative.

"If you are just a single individual with no previous contact, then that is a
very big problem to solve which is why the role of the community is so important
because only the community can give the police that first clue that there is
something odd going on in that house."

Lord Blair also warned against taking a more austere line on religious
fundamentalism. In response to Prime Minister David Cameron's comment that the
UK should be more "intolerant of intolerance", Lord Blair said: "We have to take
a very resolute approach, be resolute in actually requiring and demanding this
community works with us... But you don't do it to them, you do it with them."

Lord Blair said he does not believe that the West would be able to defeat the
threat from Islamic extremism in his lifetime.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 7:11 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Bodies of all but one of British victims identified, according
to Government;
As many as 38 people were killed in the terrorist attack

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 387 words


Officials have formally identified all but one of the 30 Britons believed to
have been killed by a gunman on a Tunisian beach, the Foreign Secretary has
confirmed.

Philip Hammond made the comments after the first bodies of the murdered Britons
were repatriated to the UK on Wednesday.

Speaking after chairing an emergency meeting of the Government's Cobra
committee, he said the bodies of the remaining victims would be brought home
"over the coming days".

A C-17 military transport aircraft carried the bodies from the Tunisian capital
of Tunis to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

Family members gathered at the RAF base wept as the flower-adorned coffins of
Adrian Evans, Patrick Evans, Joel Richards, Carly Lovett, Stephen Mellor, John
Stollery, and Denis and Elaine Thwaites were carried from the aircraft.

The victims were among 38 people shot dead by 23-year-old student Seifeddine
Rezgui at the resort of Sousse on Friday.

Read more: Tunisia attack: Bodies of eight British victims arrive home amid
fears 'dangerous terrorist' could get migrant boat to EuropeTunisian jihadists'
hit list of targets over the summer revealedTunisia gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
'laughed' as he took 'photographs of the bodies,' witness says

"I can confirm that the number of Britons killed in the Tunisia terrorist attack
who have been positively identified has now reached 29," Mr Hammond said.

"One victim now remains who we believe is British but police require further
time to confirm the identity.

He added: "All of our injured are home and all bar one of the 30 who we believe
are British have now been positively identified. The first RAF flight to
repatriate the bodies of those killed in the attack returned eight of the
victims to their loved ones.

"The remaining bodies will be flown back to Britain over the coming days."

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Addressing the attack at the Commons on Wednesday, Prime Minister David Cameron
said he is looking into creating a ministerial committee to co-ordinate work
across Government "to provide all the support that the victims of this appalling
attack deserve and also to make sure that, as a nation, we mark and commemorate
this event appropriately".

The authorities in Tunisian are now questioning a number of people believed to
be  linked to Rezgui, who had links to the Isis terrorist group.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 12:10 AM GMT

Denis Thwaites: Fast and skilful footballer who played for Birmingham City and
was murdered in a terrorist attack in Tunisia;
The 70-year-old was in the second day of a holiday with his wife Elaine

SECTION: OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 601 words


Denis Thwaites, who played for Birmingham City in the top tier of English
football during the 1960s, was among the Britons who died in the terrorist
massacre on a beach near the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

The 70-year-old Thwaites was in the second day of a holiday with his
Birmingham-born wife Elaine, 69. His family were initially told they had
survived and were recuperating in hospital, but when their daughter Lindsey and
her husband flew to Tunisia she learned they had been misinformed.

Thwaites, a pacy, skilful left-winger who was born and raised in the Teesside
town of Stockton, was something of a teenaged prodigy who represented England at
schoolboy and youth level and also excelled at cricket and athletics. Birmingham
were so keen to recruit him that when he arrived at St Andrew's as a 15-year-old
in 1960, they moved his parents to the Midlands, his father Jim becoming a
member of the club's groundstaff.

He made his first-team debut at the age of 16 in a League Cup game at Swindon in
1961, eight months before joining the full-time professional ranks. The
beginning of the 1962-63 season saw him replace Bertie Auld (later to win the
European Cup with Celtic) in a 2-0 defeat at Arsenal. Although he scored twice
against Chelsea the following year - the first of a respectable haul of 18 goals
in 83 league starts for Blues - he was on the winning side only once in his
first 23 appearances.

In the 1964-65 campaign, which ended with Birmingham being relegated, Thwaites
finally secured a regular place. He scored in both encounters with the eventual
champions, Manchester United, as well against runners-up Leeds and FA Cup
winners Liverpool. He then struck twice against Crystal Palace on the opening
day of 1965-66 and later hit seven goals in 12 matches, but between 1965 and '70
he became marginalised under the management of Stan Cullis.

A problem with big-match nerves appeared to be prevent Thwaites fulfilling his
potential, leading Cullis and successor Freddie Goodwin to prefer wingers who
were arguably less gifted, such as Bert Murray, Trevor Hockey and the current
chief executive of the Professional Footballers' association, Gordon Taylor. He
started just 11 league fixtures in his last six seasons at Birmingham.

Read more: Tunisia attack: Parliament may authorise air strikesTunisia attack:
Armed coastguards failed to take on killerTunisian jihadists' hit list of
targets over the summer revealedTunisia attack: Victim found 'hugging' husband's
bodyTunisia attack: Bodies of eight British victims arrive homeTunisian mass
murderer 'was carrying unexploded bomb'

In 1972, with an exciting new generation of forwards such as Trevor Francis and
Bob Latchford emerging at St Andrew's, Thwaites was released after 10 years, 95
competitive outings and 21 goals for Birmingham. Three years after playing
before three 50,000-plus crowds in the FA Cup, he was turning out for Rover
Solihull in the Birmingham Works League at the age of 27.

Thwaites, the uncle of full-back Steve Lilwall, who played for West Bromwich
Albion in the 1990s, later lived in Blackpool and worked as a hospital porter.
Former team-mates described him as a gentle, friendly character and fine
footballer, Scottish striker Bobby Thomson saying: "Denis was a cracking player.
He had so much speed and skill. He was just a bit shy."

PHIL SHAW

Denis Thwaites, footballer and hospital porter: born Stockton-on-Tees, Co Durham
14 December 1944; married Elaine Stanley (died 2015; one daughter); died Port el
Kantaoui, Tunisia 26 June 2015.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Denis Thwaites;
Sportsman. Born: 1944 Fast and skilful footballer who played for Birmingham City
and was murdered in a terrorist attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: PHIL SHAW

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 528 words


Denis Thwaites, who played for Birmingham City in the top tier of English
football during the 1960s, was among the Britons who died in the terrorist
massacre on a beach near the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

The 70-year-old Thwaites was in the second day of a holiday with his
Birmingham-born wife Elaine, 69. His family were initially told they had
survived and were recuperating in hospital, but when their daughter Lindsey and
her husband flew to Tunisia she learned they had been misinformed.

Thwaites, a pacy, skilful left-winger who was born and raised in the Teesside
town of Stockton, was something of a teenaged prodigy who represented England at
schoolboy and youth level and also excelled at cricket and athletics. Birmingham
were so keen to recruit him that when he arrived at St Andrew's as a 15-year-old
in 1960, they moved his parents to the Midlands, his father Jim becoming a
member of the club's groundstaff.

He made his first-team debut at the age of 16 in a League Cup game at Swindon in
1961, eight months before joining the full-time professional ranks. The
beginning of the 1962-63 season saw him replace Bertie Auld (later to win the
European Cup with Celtic) in a 2-0 defeat at Arsenal. Although he scored twice
against Chelsea the following year - the first of a respectable haul of 18 goals
in 83 league starts for Blues - he was on the winning side only once in his
first 23 appearances.

In the 1964-65 campaign, which ended with Birmingham being relegated, Thwaites
finally secured a regular place. He scored in both encounters with the eventual
champions, Manchester United, as well against runners-up Leeds and FA Cup
winners Liverpool. He then struck twice against Crystal Palace on the opening
day of 1965-66 and later hit seven goals in 12 matches, but between 1965 and '70
he became marginalised under the management of Stan Cullis.

A problem with big-match nerves appeared to be prevent Thwaites fulfilling his
potential, leading Cullis and successor Freddie Goodwin to prefer wingers who
were arguably less gifted, such as Bert Murray, Trevor Hockey and the current
chief executive of the Professional Footballers' association, Gordon Taylor. He
started just 11 league fixtures in his last six seasons at Birmingham.

In 1972, with an exciting new generation of forwards such as Trevor Francis and
Bob Latchford emerging at St Andrew's, Thwaites was released after 10 years, 95
competitive outings and 21 goals for Birmingham. Three years after playing
before three 50,000-plus crowds in the FA Cup, he was turning out for Rover
Solihull in the Birmingham Works League at the age of 27.

Thwaites, the uncle of full-back Steve Lilwall, who played for West Bromwich
Albion in the 1990s, later lived in Blackpool and worked as a hospital porter.
Former team-mates described him as a gentle, friendly character and fine
footballer, Scottish striker Bobby Thomson saying: "Denis was a cracking player.
He had so much speed and skill. He was just a bit shy."

Denis Thwaites, footballer and hospital porter: born Stockton-on-Tees, Co Durham
14 December 1944; married Elaine Stanley (died 2015; one daughter); died Port el
Kantaoui, Tunisia 26 June 2015.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 10:00 PM GMT

British Grand Prix on high terrorism alert due to Tunisia attacks and 7/7
bombings' 10th anniversary;
MI5 rates the national threat level as "severe" and a record 350,000 fans are
expected at Silverstone this weekend for the country's biggest sporting event

BYLINE: By Byron Young

SECTION: SPORT,FORMULA 1

LENGTH: 254 words


The British Grand Prix is to be staged behind an unparalleled ring of steel in
the wake of the Tunisia beach massacre that left over two-dozen Britons dead,
writes Byron Young at Silverstone.

The nation's biggest sporting event also takes place just 48 hours before the
10th anniversary of the 7/7 suicide-bomber attacks in London.

And tension has escalated around the country as the bodies of the victims of the
North Africa tragedy continue to arrive on special flights to RAF Brize Norton,
only 40 miles from the track.

A record 350,000 fans are expected here over four days, with a soaring new high
of 140,000 on Sunday - race-day itself - alone.

MI5 sources put the threat level nationally as 'severe', which is the second
highest and rates the chances of an attack as highly likely.

In pictures - Lewis Hamilton wins the 2014 British Grand Prix:

British Formula One Grand Prix at Silverstone Circuit

A Silverstone spokeswoman said: "Because it is a major, high-level sporting
event, we were already on high alert. The level of the threat in the UK is
'severe' and it has not changed.

"We have had a risk assessment by Northamptonshire police and security is based
on that assessment."

Circuit sources and a Northamptonshire police spokesman refused to release
details or the size of the operation.

But the county has an armed police response unit on standby.

On Thursday night, police with sniffer dogs were sweeping inside the
ultra-secure paddock, where stars such as Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button are
preparing for the race.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 8:01 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Sick fanatics warned Brit tourists a MONTH before the
bloodbath on the beach;
The chilling threat was issued in a tweet as holidaymakers were heading for the
Med and warned people not to go there

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 334 words


Sick fanatics warned British tourists a month before the Sousse atrocity: 'If
you insist on coming, then beware.'

The chilling threat was issued in a tweet as holidaymakers were heading for the
Med.

An armed group linked to Ansar al-Sharia - the group inspired by hate cleric Abu
Qatada - told them not to go there.

The lunatics promised an atrocity even worse than the March attack on the Bardo
Museum in the capital Tunis.

The tweet read: "To the Christians planning their summer vacations in Tunisia,
we can't accept you in our land while your jets keep killing our Muslim Brothers
in Iraq & [Syria].

Ominous Tunisia tweet

'But if you insist on coming, then beware because we are planning for you
something that will make you forget #Bardoattack.'

The reference to the airstrikes in Iraq and Syria strengthens claims that
Seifeddine Rezgui was targeting Brits.

Eyewitnesses told how he went out of his way to look for "British, French".

Both British and French warplanes have been involved in bombing Islamic State.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

"It has been confirmed that the attacker trained in Libya with weapons at the
same period as the Bardo attackers", said Rafik Chelli, the secretary of state
for the Interior Ministry in Tunisa.

The terror group has previously released video of similar executions.

Footage purports to show ISIS members throwing homosexual men off high-rise
building

The Twitter account which made the threat belonged to a group called Ajnad
al-Khilafa, which emerged in early April and has claimed responsibility for a
number of terror attacks in Tunisia since.

It identified itself as the "media arm" of the UK-linked Ansar al-Sharia in
Tunisia.

Foreign Office travel advice to Brit holidaymakers has been updated with details
of the attacks, but has not changed the overall threat level, despite the
massacre, apart from advising tourists to check conditions with their tour
operators.

First footage of how tourists and locals in Sousse hide in a nearby shop from
the Tunisia attack gunman

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Operation to repatriate Tunisian terror attack victims continues

BYLINE: Jess Bell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


More victims of the Tunisian terror attack continue to be flown home, six days
after the beach massacre which killed 38 people.

Relatives of eight victims of gunman Seifeddine Rezgui gathered at RAF Brize
Norton yesterday to see their coffins carried off a military transport aircraft
by armed forces personnel.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the other 22 British victims would arrive
back in the UK "over the coming days".

A couple from Swanley were amongst those who survived the attack, after fleeing
from the 23-year-old gunman when he opened fire on Friday at the coastal resort
in Sousse.

After returning home at the weekend they described the horror of the mass
killing, in which unsuspecting Western tourists were the target.





LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Stourbridge News

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Friends of Tunisian beach terror attack victim Joel Richards launch fund to help
family

BYLINE: Bev Holder

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 252 words


FRIENDS of tragic Black Country teenager Joel Richards who was killed along with
his uncle and grandfather in the Tunisian beach terror attack have started a
fund to help surviving family members.

Alex Shaw, from Amblecote, Stourbridge, says he's still in shock over the
massacre which claimed the life of his friend and fellow football referee Joel,
aged 19.

The 22-year-old retail worker told the News he and Joel had been friends for
three years and he has been left feeling "numb" since hearing of the horror
attack which left 38 people dead.

University of Worcester student Joel, from Wednesbury, was killed alongside his
uncle Adrian Evans, aged 49, and grandfather Patrick Evans, aged 78, when gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui brought terror to the holiday resort of Sousse last Friday
(June 26).

To help Joel's devastated mum Suzanne and 16-year-old brother Owen, who survived
the attack, friends have set up an online fundraising page and they have raised
more than £5,500 in just four days.

Alex, a former Stourbridge College student, said: "Our initial target was £1,000
but within four-and-a-half hours we'd already raised £1,500. It's unreal. We've
had donations from Premier League refs, the RAF and the Football Association and
people across the world. It's taken off really well. We just want to keep it
going and get as much money as possible."

He added: "We'll deliver it to Joel's mum to use for travel, funeral costs or
anything."

Anyone wishing to make a donation can go to http://www.gofundme.com/Joelrichards

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Surrey Mirror

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Share your memories of the 7/7 terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 69  words


TUESDAY marks the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 terror attacks in London.

Four bombs on three Tube trains and a bus killed 52 people and maimed many more.

Sevenoaks workers and commuters were caught up in those catastrophic events.

To mark the anniversary, the Chronicle will recall the  day as seen through the
eyes of Sevenoaks people.

If you were there, tell us your story.

Email reporters@sevenoakschronicle.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shocking: Scene of a bus blown up by a terrorist bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

More Tunisia terror attack victims flown home

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 709 words


THE bodies of nine victims of the Tunisian beach massacre were been returned to
the UK today as the final British death toll was confirmed at 30.

An RAF C17 transport plane carrying the remains of Lisa and William Graham,
Philip Heathcote, Trudy Jones, Ann and James McQuire, Janet and John Stocker,
and David Thompson touched down at the Brize Norton air base in Oxfordshire this
afternoon.

Eight Britons killed in the terror attack were brought back to British soil
yesterday, and further flights are expected tomorrow and on Saturday.

Relatives of the dead were present at the airbase to see their coffins removed
from the plane.

British nationals made up the majority of the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse
on Friday - along with three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "We now have all 30 British victims
positively identified and we can say with a high degree of confidence that is
now the final death toll of British nationals killed in this incident."

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice confirmed the 30 Britons killed in
the massacre were their customers.

As the hunt continued for accomplices believed to have helped Rezgui carry out
the atrocity, the Tunisian government said it had arrested 12 suspects.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

Mr Fallon told the House of Commons: "We are working with the Tunisian
authorities to find out exactly how this outrage last Friday was carried out,
how it was planned, who was involved in it.

"Let the House be in absolutely no doubt, the people who perpetrated the murders
of our constituents are going to be tracked down, whether they are in Libya, in
Syria or anywhere else."

Mr McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were from Cumbernauld in North Lanarkshire,
where vicar the Rev Joyce Keyes described them as a "kind and gentle couple". Mr
and Mrs Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth, were visiting Tunisia to celebrate Mrs
Graham's 50th birthday.

Mr Heathcote, 52, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, was celebrating his 30th wedding
anniversary with wife Allison, 48, who was seriously injured in the attack and
has been flown back to Britain by the RAF for treatment.

Ms Jones, of Blackwood in Monmouthshire, south Wales, was described by her
family as "our beautiful mother". She was a 51-year-old divorced single
mother-of-four and had been on holiday with her friends.

Mr Stocker, 74, was a retired printer, born and bred in Peckham, south-east
London, and was a father of five children and had 10 grandchildren, while Mrs
Stocker, 63, was born and raised with her two brothers in Fulham, south-west
London.

Mr Thompson, 80, from Tadley, Hampshire, was a retired scientist at the Atomic
Weapons Establishment.

Wounded Britons - including four with severe injuries - have already been
brought back to the UK for treatment at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford,
Plymouth and London.

A minute's silence in memory of the victims will be observed at noon tomorrow -
a week after the outrage - and flags will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall
departments and Buckingham Palace. Whitehall officials were meeting this
afternoon to consider the continuing UK response to the attack.

Those repatriated yesterday included the youngest known victim, Joel Richards,
19, with his uncle Adrian Evans and his grandfather Patrick Evans; fashion
blogger Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire; Stephen Mellor, 59,
from Bodmin in Cornwall; John Stollery, 58, a social worker from
Nottinghamshire; former Birmingham City football player Denis Thwaites, 70, and
his wife Elaine, 69.

The other British victims include: John Welch, 74, from Corsham, and his partner
Eileen Swannack, from Biddestone; Christopher and Sharon Bell, from Leeds; Chris
Dyer, from Watford; Lisa Burbidge, from Gateshead; Sue Davey from Staffordshire;
Scott Chalkley from Derby; Claire Windass from Hull; Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from
Goole, East Yorkshire; and Stuart Cullen, 52, from Suffolk.

The Irish victims were Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, and Laurence and
Martina Hayes, both in their 50s, from Athlone in Co Westmeath.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Tamworth Herald Series

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Saddened by terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 12-13

LENGTH: 347  words


WE have all seen details of Friday's savage attacks in Tunisia, France and
Kuwait that serve as an appalling reminder of the global nature of terrorism. In
Tunisia, people were murdered by the deranged gunman whose unspeakable act of
violence and evil has changed lives forever.  His victims were innocent
holidaymakers, relaxing and enjoying time with their family and friends.

My thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of everyone affected by
this terrible event including Tamworth's Sue Davey and her partner Scott.

ISIS have claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was "an attack upon
the nests of fornication, vice and disbelief in God".

However ISIS does not represent the main Sunni and Shia Muslims' ideology and is
condemned by the majority of Muslims.

ISIS is not Islam; it is a sick and perverted distortion of Islam. This latest
act of evil and brutality clearly demonstrates why this kind of terrorism has to
be confronted, wherever it happens.

Cowardly attackers like 24-year-old Seifeddine Rezgui want people to cower in
the face of their hideous violence and to change how we live our lives. They
want us to compromise our values of freedom, tolerance and the rule of the law.

In my view, strong military action against ISIS in Syria as well as Iraq is
urgently needed, and Muslim participation and support will be crucial. ISIS
threatens Sunni nations and Shiite nations as well as the United States and
Europe.

I am lost for words about the Tunisia atrocity.

When I worked as a singer for Thomson Holidays, I stayed at the Imperial Mahaba
Hotel and performed at a number of hotels in Sousse. I remember the resort as a
beautiful, peaceful place and it is difficult to associate the violence and
bloodshed splashed all over the TV and in the newspapers with the Sousse that I
once knew.

Tunisia is a poor country and I expect that many people who work in the hotels
will be deeply worried that one person could have destroyed Tunisia as a holiday
destination, and the impact of this on their own lives and livelihoods.

Glen Chavannes, via emal.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Glenn Chavannes, pictured front row second right, during his time
working in Tunisia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 6:15 AM GMT

Unprecedented wave of shark attacks causes terror in North Carolina;
Seven people have been bitten since June but wildlife experts say it is down to
several different sharks and is not "a Jaws situation"

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words


A seventh person in North Carolina has been bitten by sharks in what is becoming
an unprecedented wave of attacks on tourist beaches.

The 68-year-old man was flown to hospital after being bitten on his hands and
leg as he swam off the shore of Ocracoke Island.

He is the seventh person attacked since the beginning of June, fuelling calls
for authorities to close some of North Carolina's beaches ahead of the July 4
weekend.

The spate of attacks began last month when a teenage girl escaped with only
minor injuries and damage to her surf board.

But it escalated on June 14 when 16-year-old Hunter Treschl had his left arm
bitten off.

"I thought it felt like a big fish, and I started moving away. And then the
shark bit my arm off," he said.

· Testicle-munching fish species found in US lake

An hour later a 12-year-old girl also lost her left arm in a separate attack a
few miles away.                      Since then a small boy, a 18-year-old male
and a grown man have all suffered injuries.

Wednesday's attack occurred shortly after noon as the man swam around 25 feet
off the beach. It is not clear how badly he was injured.

So far no one has been killed in this summer's attacks.

George Burgess, director of the Florida Program for Shark Research, said the
bites were unlikely to be the work of a single animal. "This isn't a Jaws
situation," he said.

The more serious injuries were probably caused by tiger sharks, which can grow
up to 16 feet, or the slightly smaller bull shark. The less grievous wounds may
have been the work of a black tip or a spinner.

Mr Burgess said that hotter than usual summer temperatures had made the water
warmer and saltier - two factors that encourage sharks to enter.

Large groups of herring, a favourite food for sharks, have also been found off
the North Carolina coast and the sharks likely followed them.

Hot temperatures have also lured beach goers in larger numbers than usual,
increasing the likelihood of a shark-human encounter.

"You have an unholy mix of sharks and humans in greater concentrations plus lots
of bait fishes," Mr Burgess said.

· Lifeguard captures sharks lurking in shallow water on a Florida beach

He added that while most smaller sharks are unlikely to target humans some of
the larger fish would see people as prey. "A human being is an appropriate sized
food item in the eyes of larger shark."

Mr Burgess said it would be difficult to figure out which shark was responsible
for each attack and discouraged fishermen from trying to hunt down the animals.

"That would be nothing more than an exercise in revenge," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 12:42 PM GMT

Dad's Army unit lined up to fight UK terror attack

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill and Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 754 words


We incorrectly identified a Union Jack badge on a police officer's uniform
(Picture caption, July 1) as a "Thin BlueLine badge". Thin Blue Line badges,
which we said are worn as "a protest against budget cuts", are marketed to show
support for the police, and £1 from each badge sold is donated to the charity
Care of Police Survivors. We apologise for the error.

A "Dad's Army" squad of retired marksmen could be formed to bolster the number
of police firearms officers in the event of a terrorist gun attack.

The proposal is being considered by senior officers who are concerned that there
might not be sufficient trained officers to respond fully to the kind of manhunt
that the French police mounted in Paris in January after the Charlie Hebdo
attacks.

Current plans include "backfilling" policing gaps with soldiers in the event of
an emergency or intelligence that a terror attack is imminent. There is
nervousness, however, about putting soldiers in frontline police roles because
they operate under different rules of engagement.

The Metropolitan police deployed hundreds of armed officers yesterday in a
counterterrorism exercise held in central London. Supported by the military and
the emergency services, Operation Stone Tower enacted a hostage scenario at the
disused Aldwych Underground station.

Outside London, however, police firearms cover is often sparse and, given cuts
to budgets, the response could be slow. When Derrick Bird went on a shooting
rampage in Cumbria in 2010, it took more than an hour for an armed unit to find
him.

The Police Firearms Officers Association (PFOA) has put forward the plan for
retired officers up to the age of 60 to be retained as a back-up force. If
frontline units were called to an emergency, they could step in to maintain
police firearms coverage across the country.

Reservists would have to undergo ten days' firearms training and assessment each
year, complete a fitness test and commit to being on call during specific
periods and in certain locations. The reservists would be designated as special
constables and have police powers while on duty.

"They would be available to support full-time armed response vehicle officers at
the drop of a hat to reinforce the police response," said Mark Williams of the
PFOA.

"If we had a Paris incident, for example in Cambridge or another less prominent
city than London, these officers would be on pagers and respond by reporting to
their local base to collect equipment."

Londoners were told yesterday that the sounds of gunfire and explosions in the
Aldwych area were the result of the exercise, which has been planned for six
months.

Three "gunmen" armed with Kalashnikov rifles were at the centre of the exercise.
The "terrorists" - whose roles are thought to have been played by members of
special forces - picked off victims outside the disused Tube station before
being tackled by armed police.

Two of the "gunmen" were "shot" in the scenario by officers from the Met's
firearms unit, while a third took hostages into the station. The hostages were
later freed after officers forced their way into the building.

Officers involved included elite counterterrorism specialist firearms officers,
a unit created in the aftermath of the 2008 Mumbai attack and established just
before the 2012 Olympics.

Designed to test the response of the emergency services in a heightened terror
climate, the exercise took place at multiple sites including Canary Wharf. It
involved the military, the emergency services, hospitals and the Government's
Cobra emergency committee.

The Met Commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said: "As people will be aware, the
threat level for terrorism has been raised over the last year and it is vital
that we train and we learn. Today's exercise will test our people in how to
respond to a terrorist threat and we will learn from the mistakes that we are
bound to make today.

"It's best we make them today, in an environment where we don't have terrorists,
than make those mistakes when we do."

The exercise is to continue today but details of how it will unfold have not
been publicised.

Correction: We incorrectly identified a Union Jack badge on a police officer's
uniform (Picture caption, July 1) as a "Thin Blue Line badge". Thin Blue Line
badges, which we said are worn as "a protest against budget cuts", are marketed
to show support for the police, and £1 from each badge sold is donated to the
charity Care of Police Survivors. We apologise for the error.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 9:30 AM GMT

Amazing grace should teach us tolerance;
Our revulsion at the Tunisia terror attack should not turn us into a society
that tries to eradicate all vestiges of religion

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 915 words


Two faces of religion showed themselves last week. One from a gun-wielding,
drugged-up fanatic who slaughtered innocent holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach.
Another from the US president, Barack Obama, leading the mourners of a black
majority church in the singing of Amazing Grace. The South Carolina church had
itself been the victim of a murderous gun attack but in its response there was
no violence or even a hint of hatred. The congregation went to the court hearing
of the white supremacist accused of slaying their fellow believers to offer
their forgiveness. It all spoke more powerfully than any sermon from a pulpit.

The Emanuel church embodied the true essence of Christianity. Even more than the
food banks run by local parish churches. More than a well-meaning papal
encyclical about climate change. More than the Archbishop of Canterbury's
inspirational campaign against payday lenders. Christianity is summed up in the
words found in the Lord's Prayer: "Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them
that trespass against us."

Few people in history can have had a greater appreciation of the power of God's
forgiveness than John Newton, who wrote Amazing Grace more than two centuries
ago. In a 1788 pamphlet he reflected on how the Atlantic slave trade, in which
he had been a shameful participant, treated captives: "I have seen them
sentenced to unmerciful whippings," he wrote, "continued till the poor creatures
have not had power to groan under their misery, and hardly a sign of life has
remained."

This was a trade where slaves were chained together, below deck, with less room
than a corpse in a coffin. Crying babies of slaves were thrown overboard if they
woke the slave masters. In order to maximise the price they would command,
knotted ropes were often inserted into the anuses of captives to hide dysentery.

When Newton wrote his great hymn, he meant it like no other person has probably
ever meant or sung it since: "Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound/ That saved a
wretch like me/ I once was lost but now am found/ Was blind but now I see." He
knew he didn't deserve God's mercy but, like every sinner, it had been given to
him.

Newton was pivotal in helping to persuade William Wilberforce not to leave
politics after he was converted. Wilberforce heeded that advice and fought a
successful forty-year campaign to end slavery. Christianity has been associated
with too many bad chapters in history but its role in the abolitionist movement
was not the first or last time it has redeemed lives before death.

So here are my big questions for all of us in countries such as Britain and
America: who represents the true face of religion: the congregation of Emanuel
Church or a suicide bomber? And within our societies, do we plan to treat
religion as if its more typical representatives are the people leaving to fight
for Isis or the medical missionaries in Africa? And whatever your answer to
these questions: what is more likely to promote the best of religion -
engagement with it from the new secular majority or hostility to it?

Britain and America may now be post-Christian societies but they don't need to
become anti-Christian societies. Sadly, I see signs that we might be drifting in
that direction. There is the mounting campaign to close all faith schools; the
questioning of Tim Farron MP's legitimacy to lead the Liberal Democrats because
of his evangelical background; and the fear of the chief justice of the US
Supreme Court that opponents of Christian morality "are determined to stamp out
every vestige of dissent"; no charitable status for faith-based groups and no
room for believers in the public square.

Half of me can identify with the anti-religious instinct because, while I'm a
Christian seeking space within a secular society, I am also a sceptic about
Islam. I'm fearful that, without Christianity's clear narrative - ending as the
New Testament does with the example of Jesus - Islam is a religion that's too
easy for the likes of Seifeddine Rezgui to misinterpret. Most Muslims, of
course, hate the heinous crime he committed in their name - but, regardless of
what we might think about Islam, thinking the worst is not really a practical
option. Nearly three million Britons are Muslims; 1.6 billion of our global
neighbours see Allah as the one true God. The challenge must be to understand
them and help them to reform their religion - not to drive them and it
underground.

I want less vacuous talk of fairness, tolerance and generosity from our
politicians. Let's start getting specific about what we mean by "British
values". Freedom of religion should be a cornerstone of western belief and it
must stand as a contrast to the many Islamic states where apostasy is punishable
by death. Do we really want to be a society that seems indifferent to 200,000
abortions every year but can't find room for faith schools? Or a popular culture
that celebrates getting blind drunk on the weekend but wants to compel a church
charity to employ non-believers? That regards an academic's ill-judged remarks
about female equality as more serious than if he'd left his wife for another
woman?

Our moral priorities are messed up. True Christianity could be part of getting
society back on track, just as Christianity itself needs to get back on track.
In our relations with each other, including the new secular fundamentalists'
relationships with people of faith, we need less moral majority-style
finger-pointing and more Amazing Grace. A lot more.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 2:56 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Body of victim Trudy Jones flown back to UK;
The mother of four will be among nine victims of the terrorist attack in Sousse
to be repatriated by the RAF on Thursday afternoon

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


The bodies of nine British victims of the Tunisian beach massacre were this
afternoon being flown home, as the final UK death toll was confirmed at 30.

The Foreign Office said an RAF C17 transport plane was returning the remains of
Lisa and William Graham, Philip Heathcote, Trudy Jones, Ann and James McQuire,
Janet and John Stocker, and David Thompson to Brize Norton air base in
Oxfordshire.

Eight Britons killed in the terror attack were brought back to British soil
yesterday and further flights are expected tomorrow and Saturday.

British nationals made up the majority of the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse
on Friday - along with three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian.Vow to 'track down' those responsible

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "We now have all 30 British victims
positively identified and we can say with a high degree of confidence that is
now the final death toll of British nationals killed in this incident."

As the hunt continued for accomplices believed to have helped Rezgui carry out
the atrocity the Tunisian government said it had arrested 12 suspects.

RELATED: Dedicated Welsh helpline set up to support families affected by
Tunisian gun attack

According to Tunisian officials the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

Mr Fallon told the House of Commons: "We are working with the Tunisian
authorities to find out exactly how this outrage last Friday was carried out,
how it was planned, who was involved in it.

"Let the House be in absolutely no doubt, the people who perpetrated the murders
of our constituents are going to be tracked down, whether they are in Libya, in
Syria or anywhere else."

'Our beautiful mother'

Relatives of Rezgui's victims are expected to gather at RAF Brize Norton to
watch their coffins arrive and be transferred to hearses, which will transport
them to west London, where a coroner is preparing a single inquest for all UK
fatalities.

They were being joined at the airbase by Scottish Deputy First Minister John
Swinney and Home Office minister James Brokenshire.

Ms Jones, of Blackwood, was described by her family as "our beautiful mother".
She was a 51-year-old divorced single mother of four and had been on holiday
with her friends.

Mr McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were from Cumbernauld in North Lanarkshire,
where vicar Joyce Keyes described them as a "kind and gentle couple".

Mr and Mrs Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth, were visiting Tunisia to celebrate
Mrs Graham's 50th birthday.

Minute's silence

Mr Heathcote, 52, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, was celebrating his 30th wedding
anniversary with wife Allison, 48, who was seriously injured in the attack and
has been flown back to Britain by the RAF for treatment.

Mr Stocker, 74, was a retired printer, born and bred in Peckham, south-east
London, and was a father of five children and had 10 grandchildren while Mrs
Stocker, 63, was born and raised with her two brothers in Fulham, south-west
London.

Wounded Britons - including four with severe injuries - have already been
brought back to the UK for treatment at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford,
Plymouth and London.

A minute's silence in memory of the victims will be observed at noon on Friday -
a week after the outrage - and flags will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall
departments and Buckingham Palace. Whitehall officials were meeting on Thursday
afternoon to consider the continuing UK response to the attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

At least 5 Brits among 37 dead in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS:999; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 187  words


A gunman  stormed a beach and hotel in a Tunisian resort and killed at least 37
people yesterday with at least five of them  British.

The attacker rushed into the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the resort town of Sousse
in the latest attack on the North African country's key tourism industry, the
ministry said.

The Health Ministry said the dead included Britons, Tunisians, Germans and
Belgians. At least 36 other people were wounded. The attacker was later killed.

Freya Stealey, from Bristol, wrote on Facebook: "We are here right now, a couple
of hotels down from the one that was attacked.

"The mood is calm now probably not to panic anyone and there are a lot of police
and helicopters to make sure nothing else happens."

She said there were sirens still around the hotel, and she had been told to stay
in.

The area is a popular holiday destination with  many  people in  the West
Country, with flights going out from Bristol Airport directly to Enfidha in
Tunisia on weekends.

The atrocity was one of three  attacks yesterday. In France a man was beheaded
while in Kuwait at least 25 people died  in a suicide blast in a mosque.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Western Gazette

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Family cancel break at last minute after terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 250  words


A YEOVIL woman has spoken about her family's decision to cancel their holiday to
Tunisia in light of  terrorist attacks.

Georgia Bean was due to fly to Entidha airport with her sisters, mum and stepdad
from Bristol airport on Saturday morning at 6.15am.

But just two minutes before they were due to leave, the family called off the
trip.

Georgia explained: "It was about two minutes before we were supposed to leave
that we decided it wasn't worth the risk. I was staying with my sister. My
younger sister, mum and stepdad were going to pick us up on the way to the
airport. But at around 2am I got a text from my mum saying that my stepdad had
been up all night watching the news and decided we weren't going to go.

"Up until that moment we were still going to go and were saying is it really
likely that lightning will strike twice?

"But my little sister is just four years old and we decided we just wouldn't be
able to relax when we got there. The hotel we were going was just an hour away
from where the attacks happened."

The week-long trip was going to be a celebratory break for 16 year old Georgia
who has just finished her GCSEs at Preston school and is due to start at Strode
College in September.

But Georgia said the fact that three terrorist attacks (Tunisia, France and
Kuwait) had happened in just one day made the trip too risky.

Georgia added: "These attacks are selfish and stupid.

"We will hopefully fly out to somewhere less high risk like Tenerife or Spain -
somewhere we can feel safe."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALLED OFF: Yeovil woman Georgia Bean, pictured, was due to fly to
Entidha airport, Tunisia, with her sisters, mum and stepdad from Bristol airport
on Saturday, but cancelled the trip due to recent terror attacks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

All UK terror attack victims are identified

BYLINE: By Press Association Reporters; news@westerndailypress.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:999; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 702  words


The bodies of nine  victims of the Tunisian beach massacre were returned to the
UK yesterday, as the  final British death toll was confirmed at 30.

The coffins carrying the remains of Lisa and William Graham, Philip Heathcote,
Trudy Jones, Ann and James McQuire, Janet and John Stocker, and David Thompson
were loaded into hearses in a sombre ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire.

Military personnel unloaded the coffins, which were topped with floral
arrangements, and slowly carried them from the RAF C-17 transport plane used to
bring them back from Tunisia into the waiting hearses.

The task, performed by members of the RAF Regiment's Queen's Colour Squadron,
was witnessed by relatives of the dead who were present at the air base.

Eight Britons killed in the terror attack were brought back to British soil on
Wednesday, and further flights are expected today and tomorrow.

British nationals made up the majority of the 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse
on Friday - along with three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "We now have all 30 British victims
positively identified and we can say with a high degree of confidence that is
now the final death toll of British nationals killed in this incident."

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice confirmed the 30 Britons killed in
the massacre were their customers.

As the hunt continued for accomplices believed to have helped Rezgui carry out
the atrocity, the Tunisian government said it had arrested 12 suspects.

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed those responsible would be "tracked
down". He told the House of Commons: "We're working with the Tunisian
authorities to find out exactly how this outrage last Friday was carried out,
how it was planned, who was involved in it. Let the House be in absolutely no
doubt, the people who perpetrated the murders of our constituents are going to
be tracked down, whether they're in Libya, in Syria or anywhere else." Mr
McQuire, 67, and his wife, 64, were from Cumbernauld in North Lanarkshire, where
vicar Joyce Keyes described them as a "kind and gentle couple". Mr and Mrs
Graham from Bankfoot, near Perth, were visiting Tunisia to celebrate Mrs
Graham's 50th birthday.

Mr Heathcote, 52, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, was celebrating his 30th wedding
anniversary with wife Allison, 48, who was seriously injured in the attack and
has been flown back to Britain by the RAF for treatment. Ms Jones, of Blackwood
in Gwent, South Wales, was described by her family as "our beautiful mother".
She was a 51-year-old divorced single mother-of-four on holiday with her
friends.

Mr Stocker, 74, was a retired printer, born and bred in Peckham, south-east
London, and was a father of five children and had ten grandchildren, while Mrs
Stocker, 63, was born and raised with her two brothers in Fulham, south-west
London. Mr Thompson, 80, from Tadley, Hampshire, was a retired scientist at the
Atomic Weapons Establishment.

Wounded Britons - including four with severe injuries - have already been
brought back  for treatment at hospitals in Birmingham, Oxford, Plymouth and
London.

Those repatriated on Wednesday included the youngest known victim, Joel
Richards, 19, with his uncle Adrian Evans and his grandfather Patrick Evans;
fashion blogger Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire; Stephen
Mellor, 59, from Bodmin in Cornwall; John Stollery, 58, a social worker from
Nottinghamshire; former Birmingham City football player Denis Thwaites, 70, and
his wife Elaine, 69.

The other British victims include: John Welch, 74, from Corsham in Wiltshire and
his partner Eileen Swannack, from Biddestone in Wiltshire; Christopher and
Sharon Bell, from Leeds; Chris Dyer, from Watford; Lisa Burbidge, from
Gateshead; Sue Davey from Staffordshire; Scott Chalkley from Derby; Claire
Windass from Hull; Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from Goole, East Yorkshire; and Stuart
Cullen, 52, from Suffolk.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   York Press

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Vigils begin in York for victims of Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 126 words


VIGILS are being held at York's Guildhall in memory of those killed in the
Tunisian terror attack.

The Lord Mayor of York, Cllr Sonja Crisp has arranged for the vigils to take
place in the city's medieval Guildhall, off Coney Street.

Between 8pm and 10pm tonight and again from 11.30am to 2pm on Friday, York faith
leaders will offer thoughts, reflections and prayers for those caught up in the
terror attack, every half hour through the vigil.

It has been confirmed that 30 Brits were killed when student Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire on a beach in Sousse last Friday, including Christopher and Sharon
Bell, from Leeds; Claire Windass from Hull; and Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from Goole.

A national minute's silence will be held on Friday in memory of those killed.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Basingstoke Gazette

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Book of condolence opened for victims of Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Chris Gregory

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


A BOOK of condolence has opened in Basingstoke to remember David Thompson and
the 37 others who died in the beach massacre in Tunisia.

People from across the borough, including those at St Paul's Church in Tadley,
close to Mr Thompson's home, observed a minute's silence at midday today to
honour the victims.

The book of condolence is available to sign at the reception of Basingstoke and
Deane Borough Council.

The borough's mayor, Councillor Anne Court, said: "Following the news of the
tragic event in Tunisia we have set up a book of condolence at the council
offices, for anyone that wishes to express their sympathy to the families of
those affected.

"The devastating news that one of the borough's residents was a victim in this
tragedy has certainly shocked the close knit community of Tadley and also meant
that, as a borough, we feel a strong local connection to what is being felt
nationally.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of all the victims
along with others affected by this tragedy."

David Thompson

Mr Thompson's body was repatriated yesterday on a flight from Tunis.

The coffins carrying the remains of Lisa and William Graham, Philip Heathcote,
Trudy Jones, Ann and James McQuire, Janet and John Stocker, and Mr Thompson were
loaded into hearses in a sombre ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

Military personnel unloaded the coffins, which were topped with floral
arrangements, and slowly carried them from the RAF C-17 transport plane used to
bring them back from Tunisia into the waiting hearses.

The task, performed by members of the RAF Regiment's Queen's Colour Squadron,
was witnessed by relatives of the dead who were present at the airbase.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Barrhead News

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Barrhead to fall silent at noon in memory of Tunisia terror attack victims

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 121 words


East Renfrewshire Council offices and premises will observe the one minute
silence at noon today which will take place one week after the attack.

Barrhead Travel staff worked through the night to make sure their customers were
safe after a terrorist gunned down 38 people on a Tunisian beach.

Nicola Sturgeon has paid tribute to the Scottish victims of the Tunisia attack.

Scotland's First Minister said: "The Scottish Government, Police Scotland and
our partners are doing everything to support those who may be affected by this
horrific attack and their families.

"The victims and their families are foremost in our thoughts." Sturgeon said
flags at all the Scottish Government buildings are flying at half mast as a mark
of respect.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

French prosecutor notes risk of simultaneous terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 487 words


Text of report by French Europe 1 radio on 2 July

[Report by B.G.: "Falletti: 'There Is Nothing To Rule Out Simultaneous Terrorist
Attacks in France"]

Terrorism: Speaking on Europe 1 radio, the general prosecutor of the Paris Court
of Appeals goes back over the way in which the French justice system deals with
terrorism and explains how it could do even better.

The January terrorist attacks have resurrected the specter of terrorism on
French soil. The departure of aspiring jihadis for Syria, threats of attacks on
France from the Islamic State [ISIL] organization, the Isere terror attack; the
domestic and external intelligence services as well as justice are in great
demand in this counter-terrorism battle.

How the Terrorist Threat Has Evolved in France

Speaking on Europe 1 radio, Francois Falletti, the general prosecutor of the
Paris Court of Appeals, is confident of France's capacity to adapt to these new
types of risks. "The judicial structure dedicated to terrorism has been
constantly adapting to new practices since 1986. Today, we are confronted with
risks that are very different from those of 1995 (during the attack on Paris's
Saint Michel RER train station for which the Algerian GIA [Armed Islamic Group]
claimed responsibility). At the time, the perpetrators of these attacks acted
sporadically and for external reasons. Today, they act in an ongoing manner for
organizations that commit crimes against humanity on a daily basis," he
explains.

How the Judiciary Deals With More and More Cases

The proliferation of terrorist cases is another notable change over the last few
years. The magistrate shows to what point there has been an exponential increase
in the number of cases to be dealt with: "We only had nine cases in 2012. In
2015, we already have 52!" The result, the French justice system has indicted
190 people for terrorist acts, 116 of whom are in prison. These are cases that
Francois Falletti hopes to see come to trial "at the earliest, in 2015, 2016 or,
at the latest, in 2017." In the face of this permanent risk, the general
prosecutor explains that "the possibility that there may be several simultaneous
terrorist attacks in one or several French cities today cannot be ruled out."

How the Relationship Between Justice and Politics Should Evolve

For the dispassionate management of this risk by the police and intelligence
services, as well as the judiciary apparatus, he calls on the political
authorities to interfere less in the sphere of justice, while clearly
understanding that "politics cannot be disinterested in justice." "The problem
is that politicians do not always know the justice system well," he adds. At the
heart of the matter, a "keystone": "the reform of the magistracy status. The
prosecutor must be given greater guarantees, including in the process of
appointing prosecutors, which should not be too discretionary."

Source: Europe 1 radio, Paris, in French 2 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Israel's Arabic press discusses US terrorism warning, attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 473 words


The following is a selection of quotes from the Israeli Arabic press on 3
July:Independence Day warning

The Department of Home Security, the FBI and the National Counterterrorism
Centre have warned of possible terrorist attacks during the Independence Day
holiday

Al-Ittihad [organ of the Communist Party] [From editorial] "The warning issued
by the US Pentagon about possible attacks by ISIS [the group calling itself the
Islamic State, also known as ISIL] supporters during the Independence Day
holiday, which falls tomorrow Saturday, raises many questions... It is clear
that Washington fears what happened to France in Lyon and the assassination of
British citizens in Tunisia... It seems that the regime wants to absolve itself
of responsibility in advance... This arrogant force does not tell its citizens
how these terrorist forces have grown; it does not tell them about the mujahidin
of Afghanistan and not about the destruction of Iraq as a state, institutions
and army and who prepared the conditions for that... This terrorism will
continue and reach the capitals of the West as long as it is loose in the
countries of the Orient! Is this not the globalization they have been
promoting...?" http://aljabha.org/index.asp?i=92899&tititi= per centCF per
centC7 per centDA per centD4 per cent20 per centE6 per centCF per centED per
centE3 per centC7 per centDB per centE6 per centDB per centED per centC7 per
centCA per cent20 per centC7 per centE1 per centC8 per centE4 per centCA per
centC7 per centDB per centE6 per centE4

Egypt

President Abd al-Fattah al-Sisi has pledged stiff measures against those
responsible for recent terrorist attacks in Egypt

Sawt Al-Haq wal-Hurriyah [organ of the Islamic Movement]

[From editorial] "It seems that the gang of the traitor Al-Sisi has decided to
take Egypt to the abyss. The assassination of the prosecutor-general on Monday
[29 June]... proves that he was assassinated by the coup which then blamed it on
the Muslim Brotherhood. What happened in Sinai on Wednesday [1 July] and the
liquidation of 13 of the Brotherhood's leadership are but a prelude to a very
dangerous period to which Al-Sisi wants to lead Egypt, through his attempts to
get rid of the first and second ranks of the Brotherhood's leadership, foremost
President Muhammad Morsi... However, it seems that Al-Sisi is no more than the
implementer of the orders of his masters in the region and in the world... The
ability to totally change the scene remains in the hands of the Egyptian people,
which can only mobilize and detonate a volcano of anger which shall not calm
down until this stage is over and the people, rather the whole nation, gets rid
of the criminal gangs of the military that shed blood, sold the homeland cheaply
and handed over its neck to the enemies of the nation..." (No URL is available)

Sources: As given

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

UPDATE: Minute's silence held for victims of Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Juliette Astrup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 357 words


A MINUTE'S silence to remember the victims of the Tunisian beach shootings
passed most people by as they went about their business in Bournemouth Square on
Friday.

A handful of shoppers out on the streets did honour the silence at noon - and
some shops, banks, and workplaces also took a pause in memory of the 38 people
killed - including 30 Britons. But for many the moment passed unrecognised.

Philip Tyrrell, 63, from Bournemouth, who observed the silence in the Square
said he was surprised to see so few around him do so.

He added: "It could have been any one of us - those people went out there for a
holiday and never came back - under such cruel circumstances. I felt it was
important to take a moment to reflect on those poor victims and their families."

He added: "It's a very unsettling world we live in."

Robert Ballantyne, 69, from Bournemouth, added: "We were on a very similar beach
on the same day in the Canary Islands - another country, but it could have been
any of us."

Flags flew at half mast over Bournemouth and Poole civic offices as councillors
and officers stopped to honour those killed when a gunman opened fire on
tourists staying in the popular resort of Port El Kantaoui, just north of
Sousse, on Friday last week.

At Poole civic centre they gathered in the members' car park for the silence at
12noon, when Mark Phillips, Borough of Poole Chaplain, said a few words and read
a prayer he'd written for the moment. Dorset Police force flew the flag at half
mast at the Winfrith headquarters and officers across the county took part where
appropriate.

Morebus also observed the national minute of silence, with drivers pulling over
at midday, if it was safe to do so.

Foreign Minister and Bournemouth East MP Tobias Ellwood said it was a "dignified
and appropriate way for the nation to recognise the enormous tragedy that has
taken place, and to support the families."

A special ceremony was also held at the scene of the killings in Sousse,
attended by dignitaries and tourists.

At Wimbledon, matches on the outdoor courts started 45 minutes late at 12.15pm
to allow spectators and participants to take part in the silence.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Brighouse Echo

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Victims of Tunisia terror attack to be remembered in Brighouse

LENGTH: 457  words


Victims of the Tunisia terror attack will be remembered as a Brighouse church
opens its doors to support the community.

Reverend Paul Webb of St Martin's Church and St John's Church Clifton will use
the church as a place for people to observe the National Minute's Silence to
remeber the 38 people, many British, who were killed.

A gunman, who is suspected to have links to the Islamic State group, opened fire
on holidaymakers on the beach at Sousse which included a Brighhouse worker and
his wife.

Rev Webb said: "I was following what was going on in the news and saw that there
people from Yorkshire among the dead.

"I just felt it was appropriate that the church should make itself available to
allow anyone who wanted to remember the victims and participate in the minute's
silence.

"This is a community vigil and I thought we should make the church available for
the community in this difficult time and it was the right thing to do."

Residents and people from the surrounding area will be able to attend St
Martin's church on Friday July 3 to observe the National Minute's Silence at
noon.

Grandparents Bernadette and Richard Paciukanis, an engineer at Halifax Rack and
Screw Cutting Company in Brighouse, were sunbathing just yards away when the
terrorist struck.

The couple were staying at the at the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the resort as a
birthday treat for Mrs Paciukanis, 57.

She had just had a massage when the gunman began firing at holidaymakers.

Recalling her fear as she and others fled the scene of the horror, she said:
"The massage person had just finished and I heard what sounded like
firecrackers.

"He turned around and that's what made me look, I saw a black figure and I just
heard my husband shout run'.

"I fell on the beach and I thought I'm dead', people were brushing past me."

Mr Paciukanis added: "I turned to my left and I saw the man, he was moving from
left to right with the rifle in his hand. I just turned around and said run,
run, just get out of here, run'."

In the midst of the massacre, the pair separated, but Mrs Paciukanis managed to
make it to the foyer of the hotel. She managed to hide in a cloakroom with hotel
staff members,

Mr Paciukanis, 59, managed to find refuge in a nearby spa.

"I was just hoping my wife had managed to find safety, but I didn't have my
phone so I had no way of contacting her," he said.

"I looked out on to the beach area, I could see the gunman walking past with his
rifle as if nothing had gone wrong. I had to get out of the spa area and I
passed the pool site and it was there where I saw all the dead bodies, covered
in towels and blood splattered all over the floor. It was terrifying," he
added.

The couple managed to return to the UK in the early hours of Saturday morning.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NHBE


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 6:30 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Family of Gateshead gran Lisa Burbidge praise community
support;
David Thompson, Mrs Burbidge's son-in-law, described the attendance of a
memorial ceremony in Gateshead as 'amazing'

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


The grieving family of a Gateshead woman murdered by a gunman have spoken of
their gratitude for the first time following her death.

Lisa Burbidge was on holiday in the Tunisian resort of Sousse when she was shot
by Seifeddine Rezgui on June 26.

In a heartbreaking twist she was killed on the 10th anniversary of the death of
her husband, Bill.

And on Friday, as the nation came to a standstill on a day of mourning, members
of her family along with grieving friends and neighbours attended a ceremony
outside St Mary's Church in Whickham, one of Mrs Burbidge's favourite places.

The small garden, overlooking Front Street, has been dedicated as a memorial
site with dozens of floral tributes and, following Mrs Burbidge's funeral, will
become home to a permanent memorial to the popular grandmother-of-four.

David Thompson, her son-in-law, speaking after the minute's silence, said: "We
do appreciate what happened today.

"It's not just the money, it is this [the turn out]. It is amazing."

A fund, set up by a fellow Whickham resident, has raised more than £1,600 for
the memorial to Mrs Burbidge, who her neighbours described as a "great woman".

Read more: One week on from the massacre that left 30 British tourists dead

Mr Thompson said the family will use the funds to buy a seat which will be
placed on the church green, an area close to the heart of Mrs Burbidge and her
late husband, as a lasting tribute.

Scores of residents turned out and many of Mrs Burbidge's family could be seen
dressed in black on what was declared by David Cameron as a national day of
mourning.

As the clock struck noon and the nation came to a standstill as a mark of
respect, Mrs Burbidge's grandchildren and many of her friends were reduced to
tears.

Mr Thompson said Mrs Burbidge will be among the final victims to be flown home
by the RAF to Brize Norton, in Oxfordshire, on Saturday on what is the fourth
flight to repatriate the victims.

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice have confirmed that all 30 British
victims were their customers.

As Britain mourns the worst attack on its citizens since the 7/7 bombings, the
Tunisian Government has said it has arrested eight people on suspicion of having
direct links to gunman Rezgui, and the attack but four others have since been
released.

Mrs Burbidge's inquest is due to be opened in West London.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 1:38 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Whickham falls silent in memory of Lisa Burbidge;
The family of Lisa Burbidge were among those at a brief service outside St
Mary's Church to honour those killed in the terror attack

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 315 words


Scores of residents turned out to mourn the death of Gateshead grandmother who
was among the 30 British tourists killed in the Tunisian terrorist attack.

One week on from the massacre which left Lisa Burbidge and 29 other British
tourists dead, more than 100 people gathered for a minute's silence at St Mary's
Church green in Whickham.

The green, which was a favourite of Mrs Burbidge and her late husband Bill, will
be home to a permanent memorial.

Mrs Burbidge's friends and family were among those at the ceremony, which was
organised by members of the community to show their respects to the popular
grandmother-of-four.

The country came to a standstill at noon, which marked the outbreak of the
chilling attack one week ago, on what was announced as a national day of
mourning by Prime Minister David Cameron.

In the capital city London buses pulled over to observe the tribute while Tube
trains made announcements for passengers.

As the clock struck 12 many members of Mrs Burbidge's family were moved to
tears.

Residents gathered around dozens of floral tributes left in respect of the
popular woman for a brief service led by Revd Barry Abbott, the rector of
Whickham.

He said: "We come here for a solemn occasion, there has been much outpouring of
spirit, support care and love.

"With the wish in our hearts for change in the world.

"It's been asked of me by the family this morning that I communicate to each and
every one of you their heartfelt love and support that you have given them."

Across the country flags flew at half mast over Buckingham Palace and Government
buildings, with many police forces and councils joining the tribute.

Coun Peter Craig, who helped organise the gathering, said: "This is a way for
people to respect the silence. I'm not surprised by the turn out, not in
Whickham.

"It is a really close community, it's a large town but it still has a real
community here."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 11:18 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: One week on from the massacre that left 30 British
tourists dead;
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, was among those killed in the resort of Sousse on
June 26 by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 664 words


The final bodies of the victims of a terror attack that left 30 tourists dead
are set to be flown home this weekend, one week on from the atrocity.

Among them is expected to be Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother-of-four from Whickham,
who was enjoying a holiday with family in the resort of Sousse, in Tunisia, last
Friday.

The death of Mrs Burbidge, in her 60s, has left the community in shock and
neighbours have paid tribute to an "amazing" woman whose kindness had made her a
much-loved character.

Already there are plans for a permanent memorial in tribute to her at what is
said to have been one of her favourite spots, on the green outside St Mary's
Church, in Whickham, and already more than £1,600 has been pledged by the
community towards the monument.

On Friday, her friends and neighbours planned to gather at the same spot where
floral tributes have been left to mark the minute's silence.

In a heartbreaking coincidence, Mrs Burbidge was killed on the 10th anniversary
of the death of her husband, Bill.

The attacks, which were the worst on British citizens since the 7/7 bombings in
London, shocked the world and Irish, German and Russian citizens were also among
those killed.

Paul Short, from Wooler, Northumberland, has spoken of seeing the gunman
laughing as he took pictures of his victims as they lay dead and dying on the
sand.

"Eventually I saw the gunman run up from the beach and he started firing at
everybody and I shouted at everybody to run," Mr Short recalled.

After making sure his wife was safe in her room, he tended to a man who was
bleeding heavily from being shot.

"I shoved the towel into his leg and put a tourniquet on him - he was more
concerned about his wife, but his wife was lying above him and she was already
dead and I didn't want to tell him."

Mr Short, an ex-Territorial soldier, was forced to break the news that the man's
wife was dead, and along with another brave tourist called Keith, helped to move
her body while the gunman took pictures.

Abbie Douglas, from Wallsend, took refuge in her hotel with her boyfriend Sam on
what was her first foreign holiday on her own.

She described the attack as a 'nightmare' that left her nervous and unable to
forget the sound of the terrifying shots.

David Cameron declared Friday as a national day of mourning and flags were
flying at half mast over Buckingham Palace and all Government departments,
military bases and embassies, with many councils and police forces taking part.

The minute's silence will be honoured at Wimbledon and the Henley Regatta, where
schedules have been changed so fans could pay their respects.

Supermarket chain Tesco is to observe the 60 seconds in every store, while
London buses will pull over and Tube drivers will alert passengers.

In Sousse, a memorial has already been unveiled at the the five-star Riu
Imperial Marhaba, where at least 21 of its guests were among the victims.

They were gunned down by IS extremist Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, who was targeting
Brits and Europeans.

It has emerged the body of Rezgui is being held in the same mortuary as his
victims.

He was taken to the Charles Nicolle hospital in the capital, Tunis, where
post-mortems were carried out by Tunisian Government pathologists.

Inquests into the deaths of the British tourists were set to open on Friday in
West London, bringing an end to a week that has brought great sadness across the
country.

Mercy flights brought home some of those British tourists who were injured in
the shootings on Monday, as holiday companies continued to schedule planes for
holidaymakers who chose to cut their breaks short rather than stay in Tunisia.

Dozens of tourists from the North East were affected as a summer holiday turned
to tragedy with terrified tourists holed-up in hotel rooms in a bid to stay
safe.

In the wake of the attacks tour operators offered anyone with holidays and
flights booked in coming weeks chance to transfer flights to a different
destination, while Jet2 cancelled any flights to Tunisia up to July 5.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 11:00 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Tyneside set to stand in silence for Gateshead gran and
other victims;
Lisa Burbidge was murdered on a beach in Sousse after a gunman opened fire on
tourists in the Tunisian seaside resort

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 563 words


Tyneside is expected to come to a standstill today, a week on from the moment a
gunman murdered a Gateshead grandmother and 29 other British tourists.

Last Friday at noon, gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on tourists on a beach
in the Tunisian resort of Sousse killing Lisa Burbidge and 37 other
holidaymakers including three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian.

Mrs Burbidge, a grandmother-of-four from Whickham, died on the 10th anniversary
of the death of her husband, Bill.

Friends of Mrs Burbidge are set to gather on the green outside St Mary's Church,
in Whickham, for the minutes silence at noon today.

And others across the UK will also stand quietly to pay tribute to Mrs Burbdige
and the other victims of the attack.

Gateshead community rally to provide tribute for grandmother killed in massacre

Some 17 Britons killed in the attacks have been flown home aboard transport
planes to RAF Brize Norton, in Oxfordshire so far.

It is believed Mrs Burbidge's body will be among those flown home on Friday or
Saturday.

And the first inquests into the deaths of the Britons will open at West London
Coroner's Court today.

Coroner Chinyere Inyama is expected to open and adjourn the hearings in which a
headline cause of death will be confirmed and the bodies will be released to
families.

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice have confirmed that all 30 British
victims were their customers.

It is believed Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who helped
him to carry out the atrocity and the Tunisian government said it had made a
number of arrests.

Eight people - seven men and one woman - were in custody, suspected of having
direct links to the massacre, but four others had been released, government
minister Kamel Jendoubi said.

He said the investigation "has allowed us to discover the network behind the
operation in Sousse".

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

The Metropolitan Police said 76 family liaison officers across the country were
supporting the families of those killed and the survivors while hundreds of
counter terrorism officers were helping the international response to the
attack.

Specialist advisers have also been deployed to Tunisia by the National Policing
Counter Terrorism Headquarters to assist the Foreign Office and Tunisian
authorities in reviewing security at other tourist resorts and attractions.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "With the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
remaining at severe, the UK police service is continually reviewing security to
help ensure people and places are as safe as possible."

He appealed for anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed the attack to contact the
confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

He also said that dedicated email addresses for people to send any images and
information "that may assist" in the investigation has also been set up.

People can go online - to either www.ukpoliceimageappeal.com or
www.ukpoliceimageappeal.co.uk and relevant information to
tunisiaenquiry@met.police.uk - to send their images.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 11:16 AM GMT

Horrors of Tunisia beach massacre haunting traumatised holidaymaker;
Holidaymaker Gemma Aldridge safely back home after witnessing terrorist attack
but is still struggling to come to terms with terrible ordeal

BYLINE: By Antonia Bannister

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1071 words


A traumatised holidaymaker who survived the Tunisia beach massacre has told how
she remains haunted by the horrors of the terrorist attack.

Gemma Aldridge, 31, from Coventry, was sunbathing on the beach in Sousse when
Seifeddine Rezgui gunned down 38 innocent tourists.

She and her partner fled for their lives and escaped - but the ordeal has left
them shattered and suffering from post traumatic stress and flashbacks.

She said: "I just hear the banging in my head now. When my partner goes to sleep
I stay awake and watch over him and when I sleep he stays awake.

"He cries out for help in his sleep."

Now back home after witnessing the terrible attack, Gemma Aldridge says she is
still reliving the nightmare on a daily basis.

Gemma Aldridge - My escape from Tunisian terror attack

She and her partner are struggling to get back to anything like a normal
existence and are plagued by images of the atrocity.

In an emotional interview, she told the Telegraph how they had arrived at the
Sousse resort in the early hours on June 25.

She went to the beach at 8am and was looking forward to her relaxing holiday in
the sun.

But just hours later, the gunman had opened fire, killing 38 other tourists and
injuring others.

Gemma, who suffers from a condition which affects her bones, said: "There was
just banging. Constant rounds being fired, and bangs.

"We just ran, ran and ran back to the hotel.

"I struggle to run anyway with my bones, so my partner had to grab my arm and
drag me along."

She fears people they met on the trip may have died in the attack.

She said: "We met friends on the plane. We were all staying in hotels next to
each other. We were all mixing. Now I don't know who is dead or who's alive.

"We've put the news on for the first time today and we're just waiting to see if
anyone we knew was killed."

The couple returned to the beach the following day. Gemma told of her horror at
finding sunbeds riddled with bullet holes and covered in blood.

She said: "They told us they were just cigarette burns, but they were
everywhere. You could see that they'd tried to clean the blood off the beds."

Gemma and her partner put their names down on the day of the attack to leave on
the first available flights out of the country.

After a Thomson representative took their details, she says they heard nothing
until two days later when they were given ten minutes to pack and leave the
hotel.

She told the Telegraph how she felt "patronised and ignored" by representatives
at the hotel who she says ushered them into a corner after the attack and told
them not to speak to any other guests.

Gemma, who still wears her wristband from the hotel and cannot bring herself to
take it off, said: "She said just keep it to yourself. We were even told by reps
not to tell our families too much so as not to worry them too much.

"Loads of people were upset at the way the reps were treating us all.

"One even said that I should think myself lucky that I get to go home."

She said that on their final night at the resort, they were left with just one
other couple and Tunisian members of staff: "Everyone had gone. We thought they
had forgotten about us.

"Even people who hadn't been on the beach left before us. We were just waiting
around. We felt like bait."

She claimed hotel guests were left to support themselves after finding it
difficult to get help.

She said: "We were all scattered around trying to support one another. My other
half stayed awake at night to comfort Tunisian staff.

"The staff from the hotel put us on a candlelit dinner and were singing Robbie
Williams songs to us. One man became like a dad. I feel so guilty for leaving
them there."

Their journey back to Birmingham via Manchester took them 13 hours due to the
four rounds of questioning they had to undergo.

She says they were told that a travel rep would meet them in Birmingham, but no
one arrived.

Gemma said: "We were just left at the airport like we were holidaymakers that
had just come back off a lovely holiday. We were told someone would meet us.

"We spoke to a woman with a radio who eventually helped us."

Gemma says even her doctor hasn't been helping.

She said: "We were told at the airport that the doctor had an obligation to see
us when we got home.

"I phoned and was told that there were no appointments and to call back at
three.

"We spoke with the doctor the next day. We turned up outside the surgery and
told him we were outside.

"He said he was busy and that he couldn't help me because I was already on
muscle relaxers for my illness. He just gave me the number of a counsellor.

"I'm just too scared to close my eyes. I just want to be able to talk and tire
myself out." Story link Tunisia terror attack: Coventry holidaymakers speak of
their horrifying ordeal

Gemma says she tried to get in touch with the counselling helpline provided by
Thomson, but no one answered. She said: "When I needed to speak to someone,
there was no one there.

"We just feel forgotten about by everyone.

"I just hear the banging in my head now. When my partner goes to sleep I stay
awake and watch over him and when I sleep he stays awake.

"He cries out for help in his sleep.

"We just don't know what we're supposed to do.

"There must be other families in need of support and not getting it." Story link
Tunisia terror attack: What should I do if I have a holiday to Tunisia booked
during the next month?

A spokesman from Thomson and First Choice said: "The whole of Thomson and First
Choice are deeply shocked and truly saddened by the events that happened in
Tunisia and our teams have been working around the clock, to assist our
customers in a continuously moving and incredibly challenging situation.

"We ensured that a Thomson representative was available to meet each flight
returning from the resorts of Port El Kantaoui and Sousse to the UK and every
customer who chose to return from these areas on the 27 June will be offered a
full refund on their holiday. Other customers who chose to curtail their
holidays will receive a pro rata refund of the total cost of their holiday.

"Counselling support is also available for all of our customers returning from
the affected areas to help them come to terms with the tragic nature of this
event.

"The priorities of Thomson and First Choice remain to provide support to the
families of those who so tragically lost loved ones in Friday's incident, caring
for the injured and bringing home those customers from Tunisia who wish to
return."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 2:10 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Queen and Duke of Edinburgh join minute's silence in
Scotland to remember massacre victims;
THE Queen and Prince Philip observed the minute's silence to remember the
victims of the Tunisian terror attack during a visit to Strathclyde University
today.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 460 words


SCOTTISH victims of the Tunisian massacre have been remembered in a nationwide
minute's silence .

The remains of Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, and
Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, near Perth, arrived back in the UK
yesterday .

They were among 38 people killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened fire
on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of Sousse last Friday.

Today, the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence while on a visit
to Strathclyde University.

At midday, they paused along with students and university principal Professor
Sir Jim McDonald.

Tunisia beach massacre victims flown back to UK

A church service was held in Cumbernauld in memory of the McQuires while a
candlelit vigil is planned later in Perthshire for the Grahams.

Both North Lanarkshire Council and Perth and Kinross Council are flying flags at
half-mast and books of condolence have been opened.

Passengers at the normally bustling check-in area of Glasgow Airport fell
silent, most standing with heads bowed, to observe the minute's silence.

Flags are also being flown at half-mast at the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh.

The silence was also observed at the Appeal Court in Edinburgh where a hearing
was taking place to decide whether relatives of Lockerbie bombing victims could
pursue a posthumous appeal on behalf of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, the only man
convicted of the atrocity.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also paid her respects when she signed a book of
condolence.

Ms Sturgeon joined local representatives at the headquarters of North
Lanarkshire Council in Motherwell to observe the silence and pay her own tribute
to both the Scottish families as well as the other victims.

At the same time, Deputy First Minister John Swinney travelled to Perth and
Kinross to pay his respects by signing the book of condolence in the local
authority offices in Perth.

The First Minister said: "Today is a day to remember all of the victims of this
senseless and cowardly terrorist attack and my thoughts, prayers and heartfelt
condolences are with their families and friends at this incredibly difficult
time.

"I hope that the families of James and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, and Billy
and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, can take some comfort from the fact that right
across Scotland people have come together to condemn these mindless acts and pay
respects to their loved ones during today's minute's silence - just as I hope
all the bereaved families will take comfort from the expression of solidarity
right across the UK.

"We will continue to offer all the support we possibly can to those affected and
I hope now that the privacy of the families will be respected in order that they
can mourn their loss in peace."

Quick Quiz: News 02/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 1:26 PM GMT

Queen attends official opening of new £89m research centre at Strathclyde
University;
THE Queen and Duke of Edinburgh were given an official tour of Strathclyde
University's new Technology and Innovation centre today, pausing at noon to join
the nationwide minute's silence in memory of the Tunisian terror attack.

BYLINE: By Lucy Christie

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


THE Queen has attended the official opening of a new £89 million research centre
during a visit to Glasgow.

Along with the Duke of Edinburgh, the Queen was given a tour of Strathclyde
University's flagship Technology and Innovation Centre.

During the visit the couple joined people across the country in pausing at noon
for a minute's silence in memory of the victims of last week's beach massacre in
Tunisia.

The centre was constructed as a hub for world-leading research, promoting
partnerships between academics, business and the public sector.

The university said it is already attracting millions of pounds of investment to
Glasgow and equipping graduates and postgraduates with sought-after skills for a
career in industry.

University principal Professor Sir Jim McDonald said the formal opening and
royal visit was a "defining event" for everyone at Strathclyde.

He said: "This is undoubtedly a historic occasion for the institution and we
look forward to showing our distinguished visitors how our new centre represents
our commitment to undertaking world-class research and translating its outcomes
for maximum benefit to society and the economy.

"The centre further establishes Strathclyde's position as the partner of choice
for business, industry and the public sector.

"Our collaborations are opening up exceptional opportunities for students too,
with sponsorships, internships and vocational projects to equip them with
essential and relevant skills to develop their careers."

Later in the day, the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh will visit South Glasgow
University Hospital and the Royal Hospital for Sick Children.

Upon their official openings today they will be renamed the The Queen Elizabeth
University Hospital, Glasgow and The Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow.

The new campus is replacing the Royal Hospital for Sick Kids at Yorkhill, the
Southern General Hospital, Western and Victoria infirmaries and Mansionhouse
Unit.

Quick Quiz: News 02/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 11:03 AM GMT

When is the minute's silence to remember Tunisia terror attack victims?;
North Wales will unite to remember the victims of the terror attacks which
killed up to 38 people, most of them British, at 12pm

BYLINE: By Marc Waddington-NW

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 158 words


North Wales will mark a minute's silence to remember the victims of the Tunisian
terror attacks which killed up to 38 poeple .

The minute of remembrance will take place in public buildings, schools and other
sites across the region at 12pm today.

Yesterday, bodies of some of the British victims were flown into Brize Norton
military airbase.

They included John Stollery, 58, a social worker from Nottinghamshire who was on
holiday with his wife Cheryl, Mr Thwaites, a former Birmingham City football
player and wife Elaine, and engineer Mr Mellor, from Bodmin in Cornwall, who was
killed as he shielded his wife on the beach.

Patrick Evans, also known as Charles, was believed to be 78. He was in Tunisia
with his son Adrian and his 19-year-old grandson Joel. Adrian worked as a
manager in a gas services department, while Joel was believed to be a talented
football referee.

More on Tunisia terror attacks:

Gwynedd couple's lucky escape from Tunisia terror

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 9:08 AM GMT

Silverstone British Grand Prix on high alert after Tunisia terror attack and
10th anniversary of 7/7;
MI5 rates the national threat level as "severe" and a record 350,000 fans are
expected at Silverstone this weekend for the country's biggest sporting event.

BYLINE: By Byron Young

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 279 words


THIS year's British Grand Prix will be staged behind an impenetrable ring of
steel after the massacre on a Tunisian tourist beach that left over two-dozen
Britons dead .

The Silverstone event is the country's biggest sporting event . This year the
race will be held two days before the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings in
London and tension has escalated around the country.

Special flights to RAF Brize Norton continue to bring home the bodies of the
deceased only 40 miles from the circuit.

A record 350,000 fans are expected here over four days, with a soaring new high
of 140,000 on Sunday - race-day itself - alone.

MI5 sources put the threat level nationally as 'severe', which is the second
highest and rates the chances of an attack as highly likely.

In pictures - Recap Lewis Hamilton's victory at the 2014 British Grand Prix:

British Formula One Grand Prix at Silverstone Circuit 2014

A Silverstone spokeswoman said: "Because it is a major, high-level sporting
event, we were already on high alert. The level of the threat in the UK is
'severe' and it has not changed.

"We have had a risk assessment by Northamptonshire police and security is based
on that assessment."

Circuit sources and a Northamptonshire police spokesman refused to release
details or the size of the operation.

But the county has an armed police response unit on standby, writes Byron Young
for the Mirror at Silverstone.

On Thursday night, police with sniffer dogs were sweeping inside the
ultra-secure paddock, where stars such as Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button are
preparing for the race.

Lewis Hamilton wins BBC Sports Personality of the Year

Try our quick news quiz below:

Quick Quiz: News 02/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

-Loughborough University - Counter-terrorism measures must account for
attackers' emotions, says new study

LENGTH: 520 words


Counter-terrorism officials must acknowledge that terrorists are not fully
rational if future attacks are to be prevented, say the authors of a study on
counter-terrorism modelling published this month.



Terrorists' decisions about which targets to attack and how to attack them are
driven by emotional factors, including anger and fear, which are not well
reflected in existing counter-terrorism modelling used to predict suicide
bombings and other terrorist actions.

The current trend assumes people who commit these acts are 'fully rational' in
striving to achieve goals as efficiently and effectively as possible.

In the paper In the Opponent's Shoes: Increasing the Behavioral Validity of
Attackers' Judgments in Counter-Terrorism Models published in the online edition
of Risk Analysis, authors Sumitra Sri Bhashyam (Evidera UK), and Gilberto
Montibeller - a Professor of Management Science at Loughborough University, urge
counter terrorism modellers to rethink.

Prof. Montibeller, an expert on the prioritisation of emerging threats,
explains:

'Officials need to consider how terrorists' preferences are affected by emotions
and visceral factors that influence their decisions about short- and long-term
goals.

'They need to challenge the widely held assumption that terrorists are fully
rational actors who seek to maximise tangible goals, and instead recognise their
rationality is limited and emotional factors could affect their behaviour.

'Existing models are incomplete in their key assumptions that terrorists only
seek to maximise economic or damaging impacts, that they have well-established
and stable preferences, and that they view the probabilities of achieving
success of their actions objectively.

'Models should conform more closely to what actually is known about terrorists'
motivations and judgments.'

According to Sri Bhashyam and Montibeller, there are different types of
terrorists who cannot be assumed to operate in a fully rational way.

Although 'sympathisers' can be assumed to fit current rational decision making
models, such rationality does not hold in many instances for 'active' and
'suicidal' terrorists.

Active terrorists - including leaders - can be 'impulsive, emotionally unstable
and are prone to externalise their emotions,' such as anger. Suicidal
terrorists, on the other hand, 'seek care and guidance from stronger personality
figures' and benefit from the attention accompanying martyrdom.

Based on their acute analysis, the authors note that passions and visceral
factors influence an agent to behave extremely myopically and to seek immediate
rewards, disregarding any detrimental effects.

As such, the authors recommend that counter-terrorism modellers consider
terrorists as myopic decision makers and subject to clouded objectives due to
irrational visceral factors.

The study is an outcome of Dr Sri Bhashyam's PhD research, supervised by
Professor Montibeller and conducted when both were affiliated with the Decision
Sciences Team at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 9:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Labour politician blames slaughter on 'austerity'

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 366 words


LABOUR politicians have shocked the country after an MP blamed the Tunisia beach
attack on "austerity" and another said the British victims should not have been
repatriated like "fallen soldiers".

PA

Jeremy Corbyn left a Question Time audience gasping when he linked the Tunisia
massacre to austerity

The audience on BBC panel show Question Time gasped after Labour leadership
hopeful Jeremy Corbyn said the north African country's government cuts were the
reason Islamic State linked gunman Seifeddine Rezgui gunned down 38 tourists -
including 30 Britons - on the beach in Sousse last Friday.

And just hours before today's minute's silence at midday in memory of the
murdered Brits, defeated Labour parliamentary candidate, William Cass, wrote on
Facebook: "Civilians should not be repatriated as if they were fallen
'soldiers'."

Speaking on the BBC programme last night Mr Corbyn said: "Tragically there are
very many unemployed young people, there is a process of austerity going on,
there are problems there."

He added the British Government needs to support Tunisia with its democracy
development and agreed the attack was tragic.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Daughter buries parents on her birthday
as more bodies return to UK Tunisia terror attack: Fury as killer's body stored
NEXT to his British victims Tunisia terror attack: More British victims of beach
massacre return home

He said: "We have to look at the causes of many issues across the whole region
that have led some people into the dreadful path of going down that of killing
people and believing somewhere that that leads them to salvation - of course it
does not."

In this afternoon's Facebook post, Mr Cass, 31 - who unsuccessfully ran for the
Aylesbury seat in May's election - said the murdered tourists were not soldiers
and "they died on holiday not in service".

Several victim's bodies were flown back to the UK today in military planes and
will be subject to a post-mortem before the west London coroner releases them to
their families.

He added: "Sad as it is, all this militarisation makes it look as if the country
is at war.

"It will legitimise a response .

"They will be used to justify an imperialist response."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 7:04 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Fury as killer's body stored NEXT to his British victims

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 628 words


SURVIVORS of the Tunisian beach massacre have reacted with fury after it was
revealed the killer's body is being stored in the SAME morgue as his victims.

PA

The bodies of British victims were carried off aircrafts at RAF Brize Norton

The body of Seifeddine Rezgui, who was gunned down by police following his
murderous shooting spree at tourist resort Sousse, is lying among his 38 victims
at a mortuary in capital Tunis.

Thirty Britons were shot dead by the 23-year-old student as they sunbathed at
the north African holiday hotspot.

A week after the bloody terror attack last Friday, those who escaped the horror
have described the situation as "disgusting" and a "disgrace".

Matt Preece, 23, who managed to flee the Sousse carnage with his fiancee Daisy
Earl, also 23, told the Daily Mail: "I don't think he should be kept in the same
morgue as them. It is a disgrace"

"It is terrible and disgusting. It is completely disrespectful."

Another Briton who escaped the atrocity, Marilyn Wood, 49, added: "'It's
disgusting. Imagine losing one of your loved ones in such horrific circumstances
and then finding out he was lying metres from the monster that killed them.

"It would give me nightmares thinking about that."

Rezgui was taken out by police after calmly storming the beach and the
connecting RUI Imperial Marhaba hotel with an AK-47 assault rifle.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack moments after
he was shot down.

At midday today Britain will hold a national minute's silence in memory of all
of Rezgui's victims.

PA

The beach where the massacre happened was empty today

Authorities in the UK and Tunisia are investigating whether the terrorist had
help from others in plotting his rampage, with Defence Secretary Michael Fallon
saying he had several accomplices who will be "tracked down".

Eight people with "direct links" to the slaughter, including a woman, have been
arrested by Tunisian police and four more have been detained for having indirect
links.

Two other suspects are being hunted in Libya.

Hospital surgeon Abdelmajid Mselmi, who operated on the injured after the
attack, said the types of wounds on victims were different - which could prove
the gunman was carrying another weapon or there was more than one shooter
involved.

More bodies of the British victims are due to be flown home today but their
families will not be allowed their bodies until post-mortems have been carried
out.

The first inquests into their deaths are due to open tomorrow at West London
Coroner's Court, where head coroner Chinyere Inyama is expected to open and
adjourn the hearings before the bodies will then be released.

Related articles  Russell Brand sparks fury after blasting minute's silence
for...  British GP on high terrorism alert over fears of attack at Silverstone

A total of 76 liaison officers from Scotland Yard are supporting the families of
those killed and specialist counter-terrorism police advisers have been deployed
to Tunisia to work with authorities to review security at other Tunisian tourist
resorts and attractions.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "People across the country will no doubt have been deeply
affected by the appalling events in Tunisia last week. Our thoughts and
sympathies are with the families of those who were killed as well as the
survivors at this very difficult time.

"I would like to use this opportunity to appeal to anyone who was in Sousse and
witnessed the attack to contact us on 0800 789 321 to help with the
investigation, if they haven't done so already. We have also set up a dedicated
email addresses for people to send any images and information that may assist."

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 6:59 PM GMT

United in grief: Britain remembers victims of Tunisia terror attack with
minute's silence

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 879 words


BRITAIN stood united against extremism during a minute's silence to remember the
victims of the Tunisia terror attack.

IG·PA

A minute's silence was held after 30 Britons and one Irishman were killed in
Tunisia's terror attack

Britons stood still in streets, workplaces, churches and mosques, outside
monuments and during Wimbledon at midday today, a week after Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire on the beach of Sousse, massacring 38 holidaymakers.

Flags are flying at half-mast over Whitehall government departments and
Buckingham Palace.

Muslims nationwide have condemned the brutal slaughter by Islamic State
terrorists claiming to be fighting on behalf of their religion.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: National minute's silence for
British...  Tunisia gunman was high on COCAINE during killing spree as pics...

Many mosques up and down the country are dedicating today's sermon to last
week's atrocities, which also saw a man beheaded in Lyon, France, and a suicide
bomb blast at a Kuwait Shia mosque, which killed 27, on the same day.

Shaukat Warraich, editor-in-chief of educational website Imams Online, said:
"ISIL has instigated these brutal murders during the holy month of Ramadan,
highlighting once more that these individuals do not represent Islam.

PA

Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh during the silence in Strathclyde
University

PA

Crowds on Murray Mound in Wimbledon. Play was delayed so attendees could take
part

PA

David Cameron stands during a during a visit to Chipping Norton Health Centre in
his constituency

"We  remember those who lost their lives and the families whose lives have been
destroyed by these senseless acts. Imams and the Muslim community stand united
in the face of this evil.

"These tragic events will only make us more determined to stand up and defeat
extremism and ISIL. We will not allow these people to be left un-challenged
online or offline, intellectually or theologically."

He said Imams and the Muslim community will work to re-iterate the charitable
values of the Islamic month of Ramadan, after feeling it has been tainted by
ISIS and its murderous acts.

LNP

The Union Flag above the Houses of Parliament

LEE THOMAS

The Joint Services Flag at half mask on the Ministry of Defence Building

LNP

Buckingham Palace flying its flag at half mast

IG

The Britons killed in the Tunisia terror attack

Tennis matches are starting later than normal at Wimbledon today to ensure
players, staff and spectators could take part in the minute's silence.

The entire Walsall FC squad, staff and officials gathered outside the club to
remember Joel Richards, 19, his uncle Adrian Evans, 49 and grandfather Patrick
Evans, 78, with their heartbroken relatives.

Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen survived the attack.

Owen and his mother Suzanne were joined by hundreds of supporters from the club
for the minute's silence, gathering around the entrance to the club's Banks's
Stadium where there is now a carpet of flowers and Walsall flags and shirts, as
well as from local teams Aston Villa and Birmingham City in memory of the three.

Joel was a talented young referee, and a member of the Birmingham County
Football Association referee's department blew a whistle to mark the start and
end of the silence, before the club's chaplain Peter Hart said a short prayer.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were also among the dead in Tunisia.

PA

Family of Joel Richards, Adrian Evans and Patrick Evans outside their beloved
Walsall Football Club

IG

Hundreds gathered on the beach in Sousse, Tunisia for the minute's silence

IG

The minute's silence was held around Britain and in Tunisia

In Crawley, West Sussex, where victims John and Janet Stocker had roots and
where relatives still live, residents also paid their respects in the town
centre.

Peckham-born Mr Stocker, 74, was a retired printer who had five children and 10
grandchildren. Relatives said he and Fulham-born Mrs Stocker, 63, were "the
happiest, most loving couple who enjoyed life's simple pleasures".

Mayor of Crawley Chris Cheshire said after the silence: "Everybody feels how
horrendous the whole event was for every family that has been affected.

"Because this family has roots in Crawley, they have family members still in
Crawley, I think we feel a special bond.

"We wanted to find a way, not just marking the one minute's silence, but by
somehow transmitting the fact that our love and care for them will somehow
sustain them."

PA

The coffin of William Graham is taken from the RAF C-17 carrying the bodies of
nine Britons

PA

Flowers remain on the beach near the RIU Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse

The first inquests into the deaths of the Britons who died will open at West
London Coroner's Court today.

Coroner Chinyere Inyama is expected to open and adjourn the hearings to full
inquests at a later date.

The victims' initial cause of death will be recorded and the bodies will be
released to the families to allow them to hold funerals for their loved ones.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: RAF jet brings home Britons wounded in
beach massacre Tunisia terror attack: 'There WERE two gunmen' admit police as
they hunt for suspects Tunisia terror attack: Briton widowed and unable to speak
begs for wedding ring in note  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 5:41 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Daughter buries parents on her birthday as more bodies
return to UK

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 688 words


DEVASTATED families of those brutally murdered in the Tunisia beach terror
attack are beginning to bury their loved ones, as the bodies of more British
victims were flown back to the UK.

PA

The coffin of Larry Hayes who, together with his wife, was a victim of the
Tunisia terror attack

The only child of a devoted couple from Ireland murdered by an Islamic State
linked gunman in Sousse last Friday has spent her birthday burying her parents.

Larry and Martina Hayes, a couple in their 50s, were hours from returning home
from their annual holiday when they were gunned down in the beach massacre.

Their devastated daughter Sinead, 30, led hundreds of mourners into the Church
of Saints Peter and Paul in their native Athlone, in the Irish midlands, to bid
them a final farewell.

The funeral was the first to be held for the 38 victims of the beach massacre,
which saw 30 Britons slaughtered.

Authorities confirmed this morning that all the British dead and three Irish
citizens had finally been identified.

PA

The funeral cortege of Larry and Martina Hayes makes its way to Coosan Cemetery

Seifeddine Rezgui was shot dead by Tunisian security services after rampaging
through the popular tourist resort on the Mediterranean coast, seriously
injuring four Britons.

News of the tragic burial emerged as the first inquest was opened into the
deaths.

One of the British victims of the Tunisia terror attack was killed by gunshot
wounds to the chest and abdomen, a coroner heard.

Stephen Mellor from Bodmin, Cornwall was killed as he shielded his wife Cheryl.

But the body of Mr Mellor could only be identified by dental records, the
hearing was told.

West London Coroner's Court also heard that Joel Richards, 19, and his
grandfather Patrick Evans, 78, both died from a "gunshot wound to the head" in
the beach massacre a week ago.

PA

The Queen was among those marking the minute's silence

UK officials are continuing to coordinate the repatriation of the British
victims, with a further eight bodies being flown back to Brize Norton this
afternoon.

Today's flight includes Christopher and Sharon Bell, Scott Chalkley, Sue Davey,
Angie and Ray Fisher, Eileen Swannack, and John Welch, the Foreign Office said.

They arrived on a RAF C-17 aircraft at around 3pm today, just a few hours after
the nation paused to reflect on the massacre with a minute's silence.

Outside Buckingham Palace hordes of people gathered along the gates and lined
the pavements for the occasion, before a brass band marched out of the main
gates.

While at Wimbledon, fans and tennis players fell silent at midday in honour of
those who died.

The funeral in Ireland will be the first of dozens of ceremonies held to bury
the dead.

Commenting on the Irish couple during the touching service today, Friar Liam
Devine said to a packed church: "Could anyone think of a sadder or more
heart-rending way to celebrate your birthday than to attend the funeral of both
of your parents?"

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Fury as killer's body stored NEXT to
his...  United in grief: Britain remembers victims of Tunisia terror...

Elsewhere, worshippers at one of Britain's largest mosques marked today's
minute's silence.

As many started to arrive for Friday prayers, members of staff gathered on the
roof of the East London Muslim Centre to publicly denounce terrorism committed
in the name of Islam.

After holding a moment of reflection at noon, staff at the East London Muslim
Centre gathered to condemn the terror attacks.

On the roof of the mosque, with the mosaic dome behind them, they held placards
declaring 'United in peace, NO to TERRORISM'.

And at Birmingham's Central Mosque, more than 6,000 Muslims reflected in silence
on the massacre in Sousse.

Chairman Mohammad Afzal said: "In the Quran it says killing an individual is
like killing the whole of humanity.

"These innocent holiday-makers have committed no sin, had done nothing wrong and
their lives were as precious as any other.

"Our sympathies go to all their families, and we utterly condemn these terrorist
actions, whether from Islamic State or any other form of terrorism.

"That is why today we have a minute's silence."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 9:31 AM GMT

The end of private messages? WhatsApp faces MAJOR changes after terrorist attack

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 872 words


TERRORIST attacks could signal the end of private communications on social
media.

WHATSAPP · GETTY

WhatsApp could have to hand over your private conversations to the government
under new UK laws

The growing threat of extremist attacks - like the recent shooting of 27 Britons
on a beach in Tunisia - could lead the UK government to introduce strict new
laws on social media and online messaging services.

Prime Minister David Cameron's plans would allow security services to trawl and
store encrypted data in an effort to unearth suspected threats.

It could completely change the relationship between Britons and their favourite
online services, including WhatsApp, Facebook and Skype.

Private online communications will be opened-up by the "Snooper's Charter" - or
the Investigatory Powers Bill, to give the bill its full title - which requires
internet service providers, phone companies and technology firms like Google,
Apple, Facebook and WhatsApp to keep a record of all of your activity.

This troubling database of information, which will include all your Google
searches, your Facebook conversations, WhatsApp group messages and SnapChat
videos, will be made available to the UK police and government whenever they
require.

Related articles  The simple Siri prank that's getting iPhone owners in SERIOUS
trouble  Calling 0800 numbers from your mobile is now FREE

According to Big Brother Watch, the British police force make a request for
personal metadata - texts, emails, phone calls and internet searches - every two
minutes in the UK.

Speaking yesterday, Conservative MP Henry Bellingham asked David Cameron whether
the shocking terrorist attack in Tunisia meant it was time "companies such as
Google, Facebook and Twitter understand that their current privacy policies are
completely unsustainable?"

The Prime Minister agreed with Mr Bellingham's comments on the internet
companies' privacy policies.

Mr Cameron said Britain's security services should always be able to "get to the
bottom" of online communications.

"We have always been able, on the authority of the home secretary, to sign a
warrant and intercept a phone call, a mobile phone call or other media
communications," he said.

"But the question we must ask ourselves is whether, as technology develops, we
are content to leave a safe space - a new means of communication - for
terrorists to communicate with each other."

GETTY

Prime Minister believes the government needs access to any communication online
to prevent terror

After the Paris terror attacks earlier this year, in which gunmen walked into
the offices of controversial satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and opened fire,
Mr Cameron also spoke out about encrypted messaging apps, like WhatsApp.

"Are we going to allow a means of communications which it simply isn't possible
to read?" he said. "My answer to that question is: 'No, we must not'.

"The attacks in Paris demonstrated the scale of the threat that we face and the
need to have robust powers through our intelligence and security agencies in
order to keep our people safe."

However - each time he criticises the privacy offered by these hugely popular
online services, the Prime Minister has been quick quick to add that the UK
government does not plan to spy on the general public.

"Britain is not a state that is trying to search through everybody's emails and
invade their privacy," he said yesterday.

But while it is difficult to disagree with the idea of making Britain safer from
the growing threat of international terrorism, Mr Cameron's solution has
attracted criticism.

GETTY

Protestors in German on the International Day of Privacy, last year  Related
articles  How to use Google's new privacy and security settings  WhatsApp just
added an incredibly useful new feature and you...

Former Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg has spoken out against the
Conservatives' Investigatory Powers Bill: "We have every right to invade the
privacy of terrorists and those we think want to do us harm, but we should not
equate that with invading the privacy of every single person in the UK. They are
not the same thing.

"The so-called Snoopers' Charter is not targeted. It's not proportionate. It's
not harmless. It would be a new and dramatic shift in the relationship between
the state and the individual.

"People who blithely say they are happy for their communications to be open to
scrutiny because they have 'nothing to hide' have failed to grasp something
fundamental about open democratic societies:

"We do not make ourselves safer by making ourselves less free."

Unite political director Jennie Formby has also argued against Mr Cameron's
comments about online privacy.

She wrote yesterday: "Of course, any measures that can genuinely reduce the
chance of similar attacks will be supported.

"But we must also guard against giving uninhibited freedom to the security
services to snoop on citizens. As trade union and Labour movement activists know
to their cost, such powers can be grievously misused."

Related articles The unbelievable story behind the Windows 10 desktop You don't
need a monthly subscription to watch Netflix Calling 0800 numbers from your
mobile is now FREE Smartphone owners will watch 136 BILLION PORN videos on their
phones this year

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                getreading.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 12:06 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: David Thompson retired AWE scientist killed;
David Thompson, from Tadley, died in the Tunisia terror attack on Friday, June
26

BYLINE: By Natasha Adkins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 146 words


One of the victims of the Tunisian terror massacre has been named locally as
retired Atomic Weapons Establishment scientist, David Thompson.

Mr Thompson, from Tadley, died in the attack on Friday, June 26, carried out by
Islamic State extremist Seifeddine Rezgui on the beach outside the Imperial
Marhaba Hotel in Sousse.

The 80-year-old is understood to have worked for the Atomic Weapons
Establishment, and has been described as a very fit person and a keen walker.

The family of Mr Thompson issued a statement via Hampshire Constabulary, which
said: "We understand the interest the media has at this time, but we do not wish
to be approached by nor speak to any members of the media.

"We ask that you respect our privacy and our wishes at this extremely difficult
time."

Downing Street said 24 Britons have been identified as victims, with nine more
believed to be among the dead.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBREAD


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 5:54 PM GMT

How the Mediterranean crises are affecting tourists' summer plans;
Thousands have cancelled trips to Tunisia after the terror attack in Sousse, but
Greece, on the brink of exiting the eurozone, appears as popular as ever

BYLINE: Will Coldwell, Louise Osborne in Berlin, David Crouch in Gothenburg, and
Peter Walker

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1230 words


Greece in turmoil, Tunisia reeling from terrorism, France in the grip of a port
blockade, Italy grappling with migrant tragedies out at sea.

The Mediterranean crises are taking their toll on tourism as the peak summer
period looms, but experts think the knock-on effect on each country will be very
different.

Thousands of planned trips to Tunisia have already been cancelled by Europeans
aghast at the scenes of last week's terror attack in Sousse.

Greece is also facing a slew of cancellations as holidaymakers fret about
shortages of cash and other essentials. But Greece could yet survive the summer
with its tourism industry relatively unscathed, experts say, while other
countries, including Britain, might profit from the Mediterranean mayhem.

It is a sensitive subject. As migrants risk their lives to cross the
Mediterranean, and with Greece on the brink of financial chaos, the leisure
plans of more well-heeled Europeans can understandably seem trivial. In May, for
example, reports of British tourists angered at "disgusting" migrant encampments
on the Greek island of Kos prompted accusations of insensitivity.

But it is also an important subject, not least for the nations being visited.
The tourism industry contributes about 16% of Greece's GDP and almost 20% of its
jobs, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. In Tunisia, where a
jihadi gunman last week killed 38 people, 30 of them British, the figures are
15% and 14%.

The attack is, not unexpectedly, having a major impact on people's plans to
travel to Tunisia. The one element of hope is, experts say, that tourism
industries can recover more quickly than one might expect.

All around Europe, the package holiday firms that send the bulk of western
visitors to Tunisia are offering people alternative destinations. In 2014 about
425,000 Britons visited Tunisia, almost as many as the 450,000 seen before the
tumult of the Arab spring in 2011.

On average, 400,000 Germans go to Tunisia each year, according to Torsten
Schäfer from the German Travel Association (GTA), but the Sousse attack will
reduce that number this year. "As an aftershock, approximately 30% to 40% of
people who were due to go in the next few days have chosen to cancel their
holidays or rebook to travel to another country," he said.

It was difficult to predict when the tourists would return, he added: "I've
never seen such a brutal attack on a beach for as long as I can remember. I'm
not sure if people will forget that in the short term, but I hope for the young
democracy this will happen because it was very stable."

But Hidde van der Louw, from Dutch-based travel group Sundio, said Tunisia could
look at the example of Egypt, where tourism numbers have risen again following
the immediate post-Arab spring tumult in 2012 and 2013.

"It's amazing how fast people forget," he said. "In some cases it's weeks or
months, but it always comes back. It's all about what regions are offering and
how they are developing - for example all-inclusive packages. Or it's about the
political or economic situation, but those are short term."

Related: How the Greek financial crisis could affect your holiday plans

The situation for Greece seems more mixed. Even as the nation is on the brink of
exiting the eurozone, the country appears as popular a destination as ever,
albeit with a definite wobble before Sunday's referendum on austerity measures.

The UK travel industry group Abta said there had been very few calls from
concerned customers, but Britons are being advised to take sufficient cash with
them because of possible disruption to banks.

Some have even cancelled Tunisian holidays to head to Greece. Jess Stenson, a
19-year-old student from Birmingham was due to go with her boyfriend to a resort
near the scene of the Tunisia attack in August, but took up holiday firm
Thomson's offer of a switch to Corfu.

"In terms of the crisis in Greece, I'm not going until the end of August and a
lot can happen in that time," she said. "Of course we will take all the
government advice - take plenty of euros, be careful of theft."

Greece will host about 250,000 Scandinavians this summer, according to Nordic
tour operator Ving, part of Thomas Cook - 15% more than last year, the company
says.

Charlotte Hallencreutz of Ving in Stockholm said the company was already taking
bookings for Greece next summer. "The crisis is not affecting our guests, Greece
is still in demand," she said. "People who have booked later on this year still
want to go. We are not seeing any change to our future bookings."

Others are being more cautious. Richard Gussen from Corendon travel company said
Greece had for years been among the most popular destinations for his Dutch
customers, along with Turkey and Spain. "This year Greece was a bit more popular
than Turkey, but in the last weeks we've seen less bookings for the high season
and instead there's been an increased demand for Spain and Turkey," he said.
"There haven't been any cancellations, but for new bookings, people are waiting
to see what happens this Sunday and what the situation is."

Such caution appears to be growing. The head of the Greek tourist industry
association, Andreas Andreadis, previously said there was no crisis in the
country's tourism industry but conceded this week that the referendum and
week-long closure of banks had seen hotel bookings dive by 50,000 a day.

Nonetheless, Schäfer from the GTA said he expected more German people to visit
Greece this year than the record 2.5m from 2014. "We don't see any change in
booking behaviour because people know there's a crisis in the financial system.
On the islands, everything is fine and working. There are lots of people who
have been there multiple times and go back every year because they know the
weather will be the same, the hospitality is the same and the food is the same."

Thomas Wilde, who runs a German travel PR company, said chaos was seen as a
relative concept: "There is a tendency for people to go where they feel secure.
In Greece, it's relatively secure and people calculate that there are no terror
attacks and they are going to be able to get petrol and access healthcare if
needed for their children - the problems are all to do with money; there's no
fear of death."

And what of the British? "With the exchange rate very much in favour of
sterling, we are positive France will remain a favourite this summer," said
Marine Catalogna from Atout France, the country's tourism agency, shrugging off
ugly recent scenes in Calais that have threatened UK holidaymakers' passage to
the country.

However, with all the uncertainty, one much-touted holiday phenomenon looks like
it might be set for a sudden boom: the staycation.

The Canal & River Trust says its members are reporting bumper booking figures
this week. One, ABC Boat Hire, the largest canal boat hire operator in the UK,
has seen a 44% increase in bookings compared with the same period last year.

Upmarket camping holiday firm Canopy & Stars, meanwhile, says its bookings more
than doubled on 2014 levels over a recent 10-day period

Nadejda Popova, a travel analyst at Euromonitor International, said there were
132m domestic tourism trips in Britain last year and that was expected to
increase again. As well as difficulties elsewhere, she noted, there was a much
more prosaic reason for this as well: stagnant salaries and a desire to save
money.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hartlepool Mail

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Britain pays tribute to those killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Mark Thompson

LENGTH: 789  words


Britain has paid tribute to the victims of the Tunisia terror attack with a
minute's silence.

The nation paused at noon to reflect on last Friday's atrocity and remember the
30 British people who were killed in the beach front massacre.

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they visited the
University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre, while Prime
Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.

Just before the silence, an inquest was opened into the death of engineer
Stephen Mellor, from Bodmin, Cornwall, who was killed as he shielded his wife
Cheryl during the beach massacre a week ago.

West London Coroner's Court heard that Mr Mellor was killed by gunshot wounds to
the chest and abdomen.

The hearing was told that 275 witness accounts had been taken by police, while
more than 1,200 potential witnesses had returned to the UK.

As pedestrians and tourists alike bowed their head in London's Parliament Square
during the silence, flags above Whitehall fluttered at half mast, a poignant
symbol mirrored at public buildings throughout the country, including at
Buckingham Palace.

Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid also joined the UK's ambassador to the
country Hamish Cowell at a memorial event on the beach in Sousse - where Mr
Cowell met members of the hotel's staff to thank them for their role helping
British nationals.

Armed police patrolled the beach while dozens of tourists also gathered around a
sea of flowers at the scene of the attacks.

Elsewhere, Tamworth fell silent to remember Sue Davey, who was killed along with
her partner Scott Chalkley. Flags on Tamworth Castle and the town's Marmion
House were flown at half mast, and a book of condolence was opened by the
council for people to remember her.

Mosques across the UK also fell silent to mark the occasion as Muslims paid
their own tributes during the holy month of Ramadan.

The Muslim Council of Britain has urged British Muslims to make their voices
heard to pray for peace, and speak out against terrorism, and has called on
mosques and imams to deliver a sermon of peace at Friday prayers, to remind
people "that these killers do not respect the sanctity of life as laid down in
Islam".

The British victims were among 38 holidaymakers who were killed by Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were among the dead.

The bodies of 17 of the 30 British victims killed in the beach massacre have
been returned to the UK and eight more will be flown into RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire today, the Foreign Office said, with the final five returning
tomorrow.

The final two Britons to be identified have been confirmed as Raymond and Angela
Fisher, from Leicester, believed to be aged 75 and 69.

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice have confirmed that all 30 British
victims were their customers.

It is believed Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who helped
him to carry out the atrocity and the Tunisian government said it had made a
number of arrests.

Eight people - seven men and one woman - were in custody, suspected of having
direct links to the massacre, but four others had been released, government
minister Kamel Jendoubi said.

He said the investigation "has allowed us to discover the network behind the
operation in Sousse".

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

The Metropolitan Police said 76 family liaison officers across the country were
supporting the families of those killed and the survivors while hundreds of
counter terrorism officers were helping the international response to the
attack.

Specialist advisers have also been deployed to Tunisia by the National Policing
Counter Terrorism Headquarters to assist the Foreign Office and Tunisian
authorities in reviewing security at other tourist resorts and attractions.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "With the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
remaining at severe, the UK police service is continually reviewing security to
help ensure people and places are as safe as possible."

He appealed for anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed the attack to contact the
confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

People can go online - to either www.ukpoliceimageappeal.comor
www.ukpoliceimageappeal.co.uk and relevant information to
tunisiaenquiry@met.police.uk - to send their images.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPHM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                      Hemsworth and South Elmsall Express

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Mayor of Wakefield to lead tribute to victims of Tunisia terrorist attack

LENGTH: 193  words


The Mayor of Wakefield Coun June Cliffe will lead the city's one minute's
silence to those killed in a terrorist attack in Tunisia at a service today.

Coun Cliffe, who took the chains of office from Hemsworth councillor Sandra
Pickin in May, will lead a short service at the city's war memorial outside
Wakefield County Hall at noon on  Friday, July 3.

A total of 38 people - many of who were British - were killed when gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on a beach in the resort of Sousse on Friday, June
26.

The Prime Minister announced on Monday there would be a minute's silence across
the country one week after the attack.

Coun Cliffe became a councillor in 2012 and has been involved in voluntary work
in and around Sharlston for more than 50 years.

Her work was recognised by the Queen when she was awarded an MBE in 2013.

She is known for her involvement with Girl Guiding UK and is also a long serving
member of Sharlston Parish Council.

Her chosen charity is the Yorkshire Air Ambulance.

A number of charities including those who help children with meningitis and
those who help people with dementia will also receive money throughout her year
in office.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NYHE


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 7:20 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Officials were warned of an imminent terrorist attack in Sousse
- but did nothing;
'Anarchy' in the security services is blamed for the failure

BYLINE: Yasmine Ryan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 713 words


The Tunisian interior ministry received an alert in May of an imminent attack in
Sousse, but failed to act on the information, the head of a security watchdog
has told The Independent.

In official wiretaps of individuals linked to terrorism in Sousse, one
individual was heard saying he would "burn a car", known code for ordering an
attack to be carried out.

The officer who listened to the call reported the conversation to the
appropriate department in the interior ministry, but no action was taken,
according to Walid Zarrouk, a former senior prison guard and the head of
Mourakeb, an NGO which monitors security officials.

"When the attack happened in June, and we have some information since May,
something isn't working," Mr Zarrouk said. The alleged intelligence failure was
due to a general state of "anarchy" within the interior ministry, and a lack of
political will in the face of widespread corruption and poor discipline, Mr
Zarrouk said.

The interior ministry was not available for comment.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Mr Zarrouk's account follows revelations, reported by The Independent on
Wednesday, that talk of an attack on tourists had been widespread on pro-Isis
internet forums and Twitter accounts since late February.

Mr Zarrouk has been one of Tunisia's most outspoken critics of corruption and
political interference within the security establishment since 2011, founding
the Prison Guards Union, a leading reformist union. He has been arrested for
whistleblowing before - not on the grounds that his denouncements were untrue,
but for not respecting "the duty of discretion".

A year ago, he quit the security forces to found Mourakeb and retains many
highly placed sources inside the security sector. The interior ministry
building, a grey monolith that casts a long shadow over the main street of the
capital, Habib Bourguiba Avenue, was the beating heart of former President Zine
El Abidine Ben Ali's police state.

Read more: Hotelier who chased gunman urges tourists to visitSon of Tunisia
attack victim in poignant tribute for minute's silenceTunisia seeks weapons and
military hardware to battle Isis

But Mr Zarrouk argues that the security services have suffered a series of blows
since Ben Ali's fall that have significantly undermined its ability to function.

More than 180 top anti-terrorist and intelligence officers have been dismissed
since Ben Ali's removal from power, as the new government has sought to break
from the corruption and human rights abuses of the past.

But the knock-on effect has been to leave a security service with little or no
expertise in counter-terrorism.

Mr Zarrouk says that among the mass dismissals were some experienced officers,
who had received training in the West and in field operations in places like
Iraq and Afghanistan.

"Our commanders [now] aren't specialised in terrorism, because we're not used to
it," an anti-terrorist officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said. These
are not the first allegations of the interior ministry failing to act on key
intelligence in recent years.

In 2013, Tunisia suffered the unprecedented assassinations of two leftist
politicians, Chokri Belaid and Mohamed Brahimi, within the space of six months.

The investigation into Belaid's assassination finally went to trial on Tuesday,
with many Tunisians seeking answers about why the attacks were not prevented
despite warnings, and questions about how the ringleaders managed to repeatedly
evade arrest.

This is also not the first time an attacker has attempted to strike tourists on
the very same beach where the Imperial Marhaba Hotel lies. In October 2013, a
man blew himself up in a failed attack outside the Riadh Hotel, just six miles
south along the same coastline.

A police officer, who was also speaking anonymously, said there was a feeling
from many in the police force that the top commanders were too afraid to
investigate the country's terrorist networks.

"It's a catastrophe," the Tunis-based police officer said. "The chiefs are
afraid because they know that these groups are linked to politicians."

Mr Zarrouk added that investigators rarely seek to uncover the wider networks
involved in acts of terrorism.

"There's no real investigation into who is funding these networks, who is
protecting them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 12:23 PM GMT

Minute's silence: Wimbledon play to be delayed as the Queen, Prime Minister and
country remember 38 people killed in terror attack;
Flags will be flown at half mast for 30 Britons killed by Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1761 words


A minute's silence will be held at midday today across the country to remember
the 38 people, including 30 Britons, killed in a terror attack on a Tunisian
beach.

The Queen and Prime Minister David Cameron will join the silence as play is
delayed at Wimbledon and flags at Buckingham Palace and Whitehall fly at
half-mast.

Foreign Minister Philip Hammond has confirmed all 30 British men and women
killed by Seifeddine Rezgui on the Sousse beach have been identified.

READ MORE: The British victims of the Tunisia attackEight bodies of Tunisia
victims returned to the UKSeifeddine Rezgui 'laughed' as he took photos of
bodies

Some of their bodies have already arrived back in the UK, with more expected to
arrive at Brize Norton during the day.

The terror attack on 26 June saw the 23-year-old gunman, believed to have links
with the extremist organisations Isis, rampage through a popular British holiday
town killing tourists.

Victims of the Tunisia attack

Janet and John Stocker

In a statement, their children described the couple as the "happiest, most
loving" people who enjoyed simple pleasures and the strong love they shared
after decades of marriage. "They were both young at heart and enjoyed all that
life could offer, and especially enjoyed travelling to new places, exploring and
appreciating local cultures, and they died together doing what they enjoyed
most; sunbathing side by side," the statement said. Mr Stocker, 74, was a
retired printer from Peckham and his 63-year-old wife was born in Fulham. They
had five children and 10 grandchildren

Eileen Swannack and John Welch

John Welch and Eileen Swannack, a couple in their 70s from Wiltshire, "adored"
the Imperial Marhaba hotel and had been going twice a year for eight years.
After desperately appealing for information on social media, Ms Swannack's
granddaughter wrote on Facebook that the family received news of their deaths

Denis and Elaine Thwaites

Denis Thwaites, 70, a former Birmingham City Football Club player, and his wife
Elaine Thwaites, 69, were killed in the attack. Birmingham City FC said: "We are
deeply shocked and saddened by the death of former player Denis Thwaites and his
wife Elaine in the Tunisian terrorist attack."

Their daughter Lindsey, who identified their bodies in Tunisia, and son-in-law
Daniel Clifford, said in a statement: "Words can't express what all the family
are feeling at this difficult time...we would like to take this opportunity to
thank people on the ground in this horrendous situation. It was extremely hard
to find out any information beforehand but now we completely understand"

Jim and Ann McQuire

James McQuire, 66, a retired former marine engineer from Cumbernauld in North
Lanarkshire, was captain in the Boys' Brigade, a Christian youth organisation
that said it was "shocked and deeply saddened" to hear of his and his wife's
deaths. Ann McQuire, 63, was a former medial practice receptionist. Their son,
Stuart, said: "I just don't know what to say, I can't speak." The couple's
minister from Cumbernauld Abronhill Church of Scotland paid tribute to them,
saying they had a close family and would be sorely missed. "They had given a
life of service to young people and to the church and community"

Chris Dyer

Chris Dyer , a 32-year-old engineer from Watford, was on holiday with his wife
Gina Van Dort when they were both shot. He died at the scene and doctors said
his wife had to be prised from his dead body because she "didn't want to leave
him"

John Stollery

John Stollery, a 58-year-old children's social worker from Nottinghamshire, was
described by his family as a special man "who made a difference and gave his
best to others". He was on holiday with his wife and son when he was murdered.
His wife, Cheryl, said: "We still had a long life to live with plans and dreams
for our future together

Lisa Burbidge

Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother from Whickham in Gateshead, was called the "most
beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle person in our lives" by her family in a
statement. "We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts," it said. "She
leaves behind many family members including four fantastic grandchildren who
were her world and will miss her tremendously"

Carly Lovett

Carly Lovett, a 24-year-old fashion blogger from Gainsborough in Lincolnshire,
was the first British victim to be named. Lincolnshire Police said it had
appointed a family liaison officer to support Ms Lovett's family and police
officers were positioned outside her address, while her fiance was understood to
be travelling back home

Claire Windass

Claire Windass, 54, has been named by her family as one of the victims. Ms
Windass and her husband Jim Windass lived in Thistlewood Court in Bransholme and
were in Sousse for a week's holiday. He was sat next to her as they sunbathed
but escaped unharmed and has returned home. A family statement said: "She was a
warm, kind-hearted woman who made friends easily and was loved by everyone who
knew her. She will be deeply missed"

Trudy Jones

Trudy Jones, a 51-year-old mother of four from Blackwood in Gwent, South Wales,
was killed. A statement from her family read: "Our mother of all people didn't
deserve this, such a caring person who put everyone else before herself. She was
the rock of our family and kept us all going. None of us have a clue how we're
going to cope without her." They described Ms Jones, who worked at Highfields
Nursing Home, as "always willing to help others". "She'll be missed by so many
people"

Bruce Wilkinson

Bruce Wilkinson, 72, a retired power station worker from Goole in Yorkshire, was
also among the victims.  His family issued a statement through local MP Andrew
Percy saying they were "devastated" at the loss of a devoted husband, father and
grandfather"

Joel Richards

Joel Richards, 19, was a student at the University of Worcester. A local
football referee and keen Gaelic football player, Birmingham County FA said he
had had "the world at his feet" and that he was "highly thought-of and will be
sadly missed"

Sue Davey

Sue Davey, 42, from Tamworth, Staffordshire, was the subject of an appeal on
Twitter for information from her son, Conor Fulford, who thought he had seen her
in a Sky News TV report. He tweeted that he was "sorry to tell you we lost my
mother Sue Davey tonight", adding: "Love you always mum, I've go my teddy bear
you got me tonight, rest easy"

Scott Chalkley

Scott Chalkley, 42, was Ms Davey's partner. His son Ross Naylor, from Derby, had
also launched an online plea for any information on his father but later posted
saying Mr Chalkley was "no longer with us".

Severn Trent Water, where both Ms Davey and Mr Chalkley worked, paid tribute to
the couple. A spokeswoman said: "We are immensely saddened by the news about Sue
and Scott. They were much-loved by their colleagues"

David Thompson

David Thompson, a retired scientist from Tadley in Hampshire, is also believed
to have been killed in the attack. The 80-year-old reportedly worked for the
Atomic Weapons Establishment and was described by his neighbours as a "wonderful
man"

Patrick Evans

Patrick Evans, believed to be aged 78, was killed alongside his son Adrian and
his 19-year-old grandson Joel Richards. Joel's 16-year-old brother, Owen,
survived the attack

Adrian Evans

Adrian Evans, 44, worked for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands as a manager
in the gas services department. Council leader Darren Cooper said he was a "very
popular and long-serving employee" and his colleagues were "absolutely
devastated"

Christopher Bell

Christopher Bell, from Leeds, died in the attack along his wife Sharon. Their
family issued a statement saying they were "deeply saddened" and knew little
about their deaths but were "working with the authorities to gather as much
information as possible"

Sharon Bell

Mrs Bell, a care manager, was described by colleagues as a "caring, loving
woman" who "spent her life looking after other people", while Mr Bell was fondly
remembered as a "much loved" member of staff in the ticket office at Leeds
railway station

Stuart Cullen

Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area of Suffolk, is believed to have died
instantly. His wife, who was with him, was injured but survived and has returned
to the UK

Billy and Lisa Graham

Billy and Lisa Graham, a Scottish couple from Perthshire, were on holiday to
celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th birthday. Mr Graham's sister, Lindsay, said that the
family received the news they feared after an agonising wait.

Philip Heathcote

Philip Heathcote, 52, who flew to Tunisia with his wife to celebrate their
wedding anniversary, has been confirmed dead by his family, while his wife
Allison is in an induced coma while being treated for serious injuries after
being shot

Stephen Mellor

Stephen Mellor, an engineer from Bodmin in Cornwall, was killed as he shielded
his wife Cheryl on the beach.

<em class="bold" />A special service is expected to be held on the beach in
Sousse, with locals and tourists thought to be joining the service to remember
those who died.

In the UK, the Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh will mark the silence with students
at the University of Strathclyde while the PM will return to his Witney
constituency in Oxfordshire. In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Mosques around the country are also expected to hold services. Police officers
will also mark the silence. The government has encouraged schools and local
authorities to also mark the minute's silence.

Play at Wimbledon, usually starting at 11.30am, will be delayed until 12.15pm to
allow spectators and players to participate in the silence. A scheduled race at
Henley Regatta is also due to be delayed.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 7:11 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: RAF returns bodies of nine more British victims after Sousse
beach terror attack;
Philip Hammond confirms the total number of Britons killed is 30 and that all
the victims had now been identified

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 237 words


The bodies of nine more Britons murdered on a Tunisian beach last week have
arrived in the UK.

The individuals were victims of the attack on 26 June. 38 people, 30 of them
British, died after Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, attacked tourists at a popular
British holiday destination in Sousse, south of the capital Tunis.

The nine coffins left Tunis earlier today and were flown to Brize Norton by RAF
aircraft, arriving at 3pm this afternoon.

Those now repatriated are: Lisa, 50, and her husband William Graham, 51, from
Bankfoot, Scotland; Philip Heathcote, 52, from Felixstowe, Suffolk; Trudy Jones,
51, from Blackwood, south Wales; husband and wife Ann and James McQuire, 63 and
66, from Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire; Janet, 63, and husband John Stocker,
74, from Crawley, West Sussex; and David Thompson, 80, from Tadley, Hampshire.

The British victims of the Tunisia attack

Yesterday eight bodies were repatriated and unloaded in front of family members
at the RAF base in Oxfordshire.

The total British toll of the massacre stands at 30, Foreign Secretary Phillip
Hammond confirmed, and said that all the victims had now been identified. He did
not expect the count to increase.

Post mortem reports will be carried out on all the bodies before they are
released, with the first inquests into the deaths in Tunisia opened at West
London Coroner's Court on Thursday. Further inquests are expected to following
on the proceeding days.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

VIDEO: Blackburn Rovers players fall silent for Tunisia terror attack victims

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 252 words


BLACKBURN Rovers players and staff joined the rest of the nation to pay tribute
to the victims of the Tunisia terror attack with an emotional minute's silence.

The nation paused at noon to reflect on last Friday's atrocity and remember the
30 British people who were killed in the beach front massacre.

MORE TOP STORIES:

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they visited the
University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre, while Prime
Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.

Mosques across the UK also fell silent to mark the occasion as Muslims paid
their own tributes during the holy month of Ramadan.

The Muslim Council of Britain has urged British Muslims to make their voices
heard to pray for peace, and speak out against terrorism, and has called on
mosques and imams to deliver a sermon of peace at Friday prayers, to remind
people "that these killers do not respect the sanctity of life as laid down in
Islam".

Locals pay their tributes outside Blackburn Town Hall

The British victims were among 38 holidaymakers who were killed by Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were among the dead.

The bodies of 17 of the 30 British victims killed in the beach massacre have
been returned to the UK and eight more will be flown into RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire on Friday, the Foreign Office said, with the final five returning on
Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 3:09 PM GMT

Sport stands still for Tunisia massacre victims: Hamilton among millions
observing minute's silence after terror attack on Brits

BYLINE: ROHAN BANERJEE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 301 words



     ·    Victims of the Tunisia beach attack were honoured across the country
          with a series of tributes
     ·    The tragedy saw 38 people, including 30 Britons, gunned down in the
          tourist resort of Sousse
     ·    Play was delayed at Wimbledon and Silverstone, while Walsall Football
          Club, who lost three supporters in the attack, also staged an event
          for grieving friends and families
     ·    Real Madrid forward Gareth Bale offered his condolences via his
          official Twitter account


A minute's silence has been observed impeccably across the world of sport to
commemorate the 38 people killed in the tragic Tunisia beach attack last week.

While flags were flown at half-mast over Whitehall and at Buckingham Palace,
proceedings were delayed at Wimbledon, Silverstone and at the tour match between
Essex and Australia at The Ford County Ground in Chelmsford.

Walsall football club, who lost three supporters to the attack, also staged an
open-air tribute outside the Bescot Stadium.

[embed https://twitter.com/WelshRugbyUnion/status/616926746152181760][embed
https://twitter.com/McLarenF1/status/616926596608434176]        [embed
https://twitter.com/GarethBale11/status/616923969980104704]

Meanwhile, a number of top athletes offered their sincerest condolences to the
families affected via their official social media accounts.

'My thoughts are with the families of the victims from the Tunisia beach
attack,' wrote Real Madrid forward Gareth Bale on Twitter.

The Welsh Rugby Union posted a group shot of the team together, bowing their
heads solemnly in remembrance.

In Sousse, the Tunisian resort where the attack took place, Britain's ambassador
to the country Hamish Cowell, diplomats from some of the other nations that lost
tourists and Tunisian dignitaries have laid wreaths during what is undoubtedly a
very difficult time.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 9:40 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack victims to be remembered with minute's silence at midday;

Manchester civic leaders and council staff will lead the silence from St Peter's
Square at midday after 38 people died - 30 of them British - when an ISIS gunman
opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in Sousse last Friday

BYLINE: By Amy Glendinning

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


Victims of last week's terror attacks will be remembered with a minute's
silence.

Some 38 people died - 30 of them British - when an ISIS gunman opened fire on
holidaymakers on a beach in Sousse, Tunisia, others were killed in attacks in
Kuwait and France.

Manchester civic leaders and council staff will lead the silence from St Peter's
Square at midday.

The beginning and end of the minute's respect will be marked by the firing of a
small marooon, or cannon.

Lord Mayor of Manchester Coun Paul Murphy OBE and council leader Sir Richard
Leese will be among those taking part to remember those killed by a gunman at a
beach and hotel in Sousse, Tunisia, last Friday.

The flag at Manchester Cathedral will fly at half-mast between 12 noon and 1pm.

There will also be moments of remembrance at both morning and evening prayer at
9am and 4:30pm respectively.

And special prayers will also be said at Manchester Central Mosque, on Upper
Park Road, at 1.30pm.

Lord Mayor of Manchester Paul Murphy OBE said: "The unprecedented scale of the
horrific attack that took place in Tunisia last week is genuinely chilling.

"The Incomprehensible actions of a small misguided group of people have
reverberated across the world and my thoughts are with the innocent victims and
all their family and friends.

"Friday will provide us with a chance to show our respect to all those who lost
their lives and stand defiantly in solidarity against all atrocity.

"I'd ask for as many people as possible to join me in St Peter's Square to
honour the victims of a tragedy we will never forget."

Qadir Ahmad Chohan, chairman of Manchester Council of Mosques which represents
more than 70 mosques and 80,000 Greater Manchester Muslims, said: "We are all
resolved to defeat terrorism and terrorists, we condemn the callous killing of
innocent people in France, Kuwait, Tunisia and America.

"We send our condolences to the families and loved ones of the bereaved, and we
will continue to do all that we can to continually promoting a peaceful and
tolerant society. The Muslim community vehemently rejects any suggestion that
such murders can ever be justified by our Islamic faith. Such actions have no
place in any religion and they should be treated as they are - vile attacks of
criminal terrorism.

"If IS are confirmed to be behind any or all these acts, we again condemn their
acts of terrorism as we have done in the past and they need to know we are
committed to preventing their seeds of hatred being planted in the UK or
elsewhere.

"IS are not representatives of the 2.7 million Muslims in Britain and 1.6
billion Muslims around the world. We should not give any credence what so ever
that IS represents 'Islam' or that they are a 'state'.

"At this time we should respond by focusing our attention on supporting victims
and their families and bringing the perpetrators to justice. We counsel the
targeted use of existing powers and criminal offences to tackle those who
encourage this form of callous violence and prosecute them in an open criminal
justice system."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         Midhurst and Petworth Observer

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Chichester joins tribute to those killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 353  words


RELIGIOUS leaders across the Chichester Diocese and members of Chichester
District Council will be holding a minute silence in tribute of the people
slaughtered during last week's terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Rt Rev Bishop Martin Warner is urging as many people to join the national
silence, which will take place at midday today (Friday, July 3).

He said: "The events on and around the beach in Tunisia are truly appalling and
yet, even in the midst of such terror and profound loss, there are remarkable
stories of fortitude, generosity and compassion.

"I am sure that communities across the diocese will pause for a moment on Friday
to remember those who have died, pray for those who are injured and remember all
of their loved ones whose lives have been changed forever. Whatever you may be
doing please remember to pause and pray. "

The nationwide silence comes a week after the shooting on a beach in Sousse
which saw gunman Seiffedine Rezgui walk on to the El Kantaoui resort and open
fire, killing 38 people.

Rezqui was killed by Tunisian police not long after beginning his callous
killing spree.

So far the bodies of 17 victims have been repatriated all being flown to RAF
Brize Norton.

More are expected to return on today and tomorrow.

The Tunisian authorities have arrested a number of people in connection with the
shooting, which is believed to have been organised by terrorist group Islamic
State (IS).

Yesterday saw a response from the Government's defence minister Michael Fallon
who urged Parliament to support stepping up the UK's aerial bombing campaign
against IS fighters in Syria.

Speaking in the House of Commons yesterday, Mr Fallon told MPs they should be in
absolutely no doubt the people who perpetrated the murders of our constituents
are going to be tracked down, whether they're in Libya, Syria or anywhere else'.

The RAF is currently supporting allied forces in bombing strategic IS
strongholds in Iraq.

Previously, the Prime Minister David Cameron ruled out a ground assault by
British troops in either Iraq or Syria.

The Church of England has issued four prayers ahead of the time of remembrance.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPMO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Britain set to pause to remember Tunisia terror attack victims

BYLINE: Mark Thompson

LENGTH: 562  words


Britain will remember the victims of the Tunisia terror attack with a minute's
silence today.

The silence will be observed at noon - a week after the outrage - and f lags
will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments and Buckingham Palace.

The bodies of 17 of the 30 British victims killed in the beach massacre have
been returned to the UK and more are expected to be repatriated today and
tomorrow.

The British victims were among the 38 holidaymakers who were killed by
Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were among the dead.

The first inquests into the deaths of the Britons will open at West London
Coroner's Court today.

Coroner Chinyere Inyama is expected to open and adjourn the hearings in which a
headline cause of death will be confirmed and the bodies will be released to
families.

Recent days have seen military personnel complete the solemn task of receiving
some of the victims on British soil in a ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire.

Members of the RAF Regiment's Queen's Colour Squadron unloaded the coffins from
the RAF C-17 transport plane used to bring them back from Tunisia into the
waiting hearses.

They were watched by relatives of the dead who were present at the air base.

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice have confirmed that all 30 British
victims were their customers.

It is believed Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who helped
him to carry out the atrocity and the Tunisian government said it had made a
number of arrests.

Eight people - seven men and one woman - were in custody, suspected of having
direct links to the massacre, but four others had been released, government
minister Kamel Jendoubi said.

He said the investigation "has allowed us to discover the network behind the
operation in Sousse".

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

The Metropolitan Police said 76 family liaison officers across the country were
supporting the families of those killed and the survivors while hundreds of
counter terrorism officers were helping the international response to the
attack.

Specialist advisers have also been deployed to Tunisia by the National Policing
Counter Terrorism Headquarters to assist the Foreign Office and Tunisian
authorities in reviewing security at other tourist resorts and attractions.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "With the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
remaining at severe, the UK police service is continually reviewing security to
help ensure people and places are as safe as possible."

He appealed for anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed the attack to contact the
confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

He also said that dedicated email addresses for people to send any images and
information "that may assist" in the investigation has also been set up.

People can go online - to either www.ukpoliceimageappeal.comor
www.ukpoliceimageappeal.co.uk and relevant information to
tunisiaenquiry@met.police.uk - to send their images.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                              July 3, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tunisia terror attack victim flown home

BYLINE: PA reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 471 words


THE body of a Welsh woman who was one of the 38 people killed in last week's
Tunisian beach massacre has been flown home to Britain.

Trudy Jones, a 51-yearold carer from Blackwood, was among those shot by a
terrorist gunman in the city of Sousse.

The mother-of-four had been on holiday with friends and had been due to fly home
on Sunday.

She was described by her family as "our beautiful mother".

Her body, and those of eight other British victims, were flown home yesterday as
the final British death toll was confirmed at 30.

The coffins carrying the remains of Ms Jones, Lisa and William Graham, Philip
Heathcote, Ann and James McQuire, Janet and John Stocker, and David Thompson
were loaded into hearses in a sombre ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire.

Military personnel unloaded the coffins, which were topped with floral
arrangements, and slowly carried them from the RAF C-17 transport plane used to
bring them back from Tunisia into the waiting hearses.

The task, performed by members of the RAF Regiment's Queen's Colour Squadron,
was witnessed by relatives of the dead who were present at the airbase. Further
flights are expected today and tomorrow.

The first inquests are set to open today. Coroner Chinyere Inyama, sitting at
West London Coroners Court, is expected to open and adjourn the hearings in
which a headline cause of death will be confirmed and the bodies will be
released.

Meanwhile, a minute's silence in memory of the victims will be observed at noon
today and flags will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments and
Buckingham Palace.

Books of condolence have been opened for people to pay tribute to those who were
killed or injured in the attack.

One is on display at the Municipal Buildings in Pontypridd. Local mayor Barry
Stephens said: "On behalf of all the residents of Rhondda Cynon Taf, I wish to
extend our thoughts and sympathies to the families and friends of all those
people who have been affected by the most atrocious events of recent days in
Tunisia. Our thoughts and best wishes also go to Mathew James, of Trehafod, who
was seriously injured in the attacks while protecting his fiancee Saera Wilson."

A dedicated 24/7 helpline for people returning from Tunisia has also been set up
by the Welsh Government.

The Wales Tunisian Support Line will provide a confidential listening and
emotional support service for Welsh citizens returning from Tunisia or for
people with friends or relatives caught up in last week's events in Sousse.

The number - available free by calling 0800 107 0900 or also available by
sending a text saying 'Help' to 81066 - will be manned by trained staff from the
Community Advice and Listening Line (Call) service.

The helpline will also direct those people who need fast-track access to more
specialist trauma support to the most appropriate services.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The coffin of Trudy Jones at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire after
being flown back to ¦Britain yesterday from Tunisia DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 5:37 PM GMT

If we want to tackle extremism, we need to make a better offer;
In the wake of terror attacks in Tunisia, France, and Kuwait, Britain needs to
ramp up the volume of its counter-narrative

BYLINE: By Verity Ryan

LENGTH: 571 words


It was in a Parisian café in 1894 that Emile Henry, a young intellectual
anarchist, detonated a bomb which killed one and wounded twenty. In this act of
murder Henry cemented his place in history as the first terrorist. Last Friday's
events in France, Tunisia and Kuwait are tragic examples of him being far from
the last.

We find in Henry's modern incarnations that same unwavering dedication to an
extremist ideology. But in an online age, the reach of their messages is
startlingly different. As terrorist propaganda takes root in the online world,
perhaps it's about time we look more seriously at that same world for a vehicle
to promote our own counter-narrative.

Since Friday's attacks, groups like the so-called Islamic State have taken to
the internet to express support for the day's bloodshed : a British jihadi bride
has published a glorifying poem of the murders; manuals for how to conduct "lone
wolf" attacks have already appeared on the internet. This sits against a broader
backdrop of IS being responsible for roughly 100,000 tweets per day.

Addressing this perverse yet apparently compelling narrative is difficult and
complicated by debates around freedom of speech vs security. One response has
been to remove radicalising content from the internet, and since 2011 a team in
the UK has taken down over 75,000 pieces. Whilst removing such material from
popular platforms is a proactive step, it has not removed the problem. Often no
sooner than extremist content is taken down, it rears its ugly head elsewhere
online. More importantly, removing the content doesn't remove the
disillusionment that is prompting individuals to seek it out in the first place.

The Queen's Speech in May exhibited the dominance of this "find and remove"
approach in offline anti-radicalisation measures too: the proposed
Counter-Extremism Bill is, for example, expected to include provisions such as
banning orders for extremist organisations who use hate speech in public places.
Unchecked incitement of violence and intolerance is dangerous, especially as it
often occurs in spaces and platforms where no alternative view is presented. It
exposes audiences to a view of the world at odds with fundamental principles
that underpin our society, and excludes the opportunity for the value of those
principles to be aired.

Whilst there will always be a role for measures like this, simply shutting down
the mouthpiece does not challenge the ideas themselves. To be successful in
winning the battle for hearts and minds in vulnerable communities, a counter
terrorism narrative has to be presented.

Strategies like the Government's "Prevent" programme have - to varying degrees
of success - funded projects aimed at promoting this. What we now need is an
acceleration of this approach online. We will never eradicate radicalised
content from the internet but we can use the internet as a vehicle to turn up
the volume on our own, competing messages.

As we sit in the shadow of last week's terror attacks and next week's memory of
the 7/7 bombings, we must reflect on how far we have yet to go. There has never
be a universal panacea for addressing terrorism - there wasn't in 1894, there
isn't now. What is clear is that building the space to vocally challenge and
present an alternative online narrative is absolutely critical. Only by
articulating this alternative that we can truly challenge the existence of
terror organisations.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 5:49 PM GMT

True Christianity and its place in society;
Tim Montgomerie says that our revulsion at the Tunisia terror attack should not
turn us into a society that tries to eradicate all vestiges of religion

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 453 words


Sir, Tim Montgomerie is right to conclude that "our moral priorities are messed
up" ("Amazing grace should teach us tolerance", Opinion, July 2). However, if we
really are in a post-Christian vacuum, trying to restore British values through
"true Christianity" in a multicultural society inhabited by non-believers, and
believers in a variety of different faiths, will not work.

What connects the stories of John Newton and Amazing Grace with Oskar Schindler,
Sir Nicholas Winton (obituary, July 2), Dame Janet Vaughan and Leonard Berney is
not necessarily religion but their devotion to values on which we can all agree.

Their actions were undoubtedly "Christian", but true freedom of speech and
religion will allow all believers and non-believers to work with mutual respect
towards the values of amazing grace. We must, however, agree to work together.

Bernard Kingston

Biddenden, Kent

Sir, Tim Montgomerie was right to recognise the power of Barack Obama's singing
of Amazing Grace at Emmanuel church in Charleston and to pay tribute to the
Christian faith of those who supported the abolition of the slave trade. He was
wrong, though, to imply that Christianity had anything to be proud of in the
history of slavery. William Wilberforce faced determined opposition from much of
the established church in this country in his campaigns for the abolition of the
slave trade. Further, white churches in the American South gave their support
wholeheartedly to the maintenance of slavery during the first half of the 19th
century. It is to the credit of the freed slaves after the Civil War that they
sought no retribution against the slave-owners and their apologists.

Neil Kinghan

Broughton, Hants

Sir, The idea that the erosion of religious privilege is turning us into an
"anti-Christian" society is simply false. The shift towards secularism creates a
more equal, tolerant, vibrant and pluralistic society in which the state leaves
matters of faith, religion and belief to individuals.

Montgomerie says our "moral priorities are messed up" and prescribes "true
Christianity" to get us back on track. Fortunately, the days of Christians being
able to impose Christian values on others appear to be numbered. Rejoicing in
that doesn't make you any more "anti-Christian" than not wanting Islamic values
imposed on you makes you "anti-Muslim". It just makes you a secularist.

Stephen Evans

National Secular Society

Sir, How courageous of The Times to publish Tim Montgomerie's article advocating
Christian ethics as a counterweight to the diet of secularity we are force-fed
by the government and other authorities. I suspect his viewpoint resonates
deeply with a sizeable proportion of the populace.

Ron Bennett

Rustington, W Sussex

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        July 3, 2015 Friday 12:49 PM GMT

If you've had a busy Friday morning, here's the news that you've missed;
Remembering the Tunisian terror attacks, Ashes train disruption and a man
sentenced for attacking a rugby player - just some of today's breaking news

BYLINE: By Cathy Owen

LENGTH: 477 words


Here are some of the news headlines, weather news and social media updates that
you might have missed out on this morning.  Wales headlines  Wales stands still
to remember Tunisia hotel attack

Exactly a week after the terror attacks in Tunisia that killed 30 British
holidaymakers, including Welsh mum Trudy Jones, Wales came to a standstill to
remember those who died. A minute's silence was observed throughout the country
at almost the exact moment gunman Seifeddine Rezgui went on his killing spree
last week. Read more  here

WRU silence  Ashes 2015: Rail services to be severely disrupted if train strike
goes ahead during first Test match in Cardiff

It also emerged this morning that there will be severe disruption to trains in
South Wales if the planned 48-hour strike by the RMT goes ahead next week. Right
bang in the middle of when thousands of cricket fans are expected to descend on
Cardiff for the first Ashes test. There are more planned talks on Monday between
the rail companies and the union so hopefully something can be resolved. Read
what trains will be affected here Justin Marshall attack: Man sentenced after
being found guilty of punching and kicking former Ospreys star in the head

And in New Zealand, a man found guilty of violently attacking former Ospreys and
All Blacks scrum-half Justin Marshall in a bar has been ordered to undergo anger
management in New Zealand.

Marshall, who won 81 caps for his country and is an occasional pundit for Scrum
V on BBC Wales, was attacked in Queenstown in the early hours of Good Friday
last year in what has been described as an act of "unprovoked, alcohol-fuelled
street violence". Read the full story  here UK headlines   Nationally, the
headline news is also the minute's silence which saw tennis fans atWimbledon
join the rest of the nation to pay tribute to the victims of the Tunisia terror
attack with an emotional silence.

Meanwhile, detectives have arrested a 63-year-old man on suspicion of murdering
a teenager more than 30 years ago. Melanie Road, 17, was sexually assaulted and
died from multiple stab wounds to her chest and back during the early hours of
June 9 1984. The teenager had decided to walk the 15 to 20 minute journey home
following a night out with friends in Bath, Somerset.   And Stay With Me star
Sam Smith has ruled himself out of the running to sing the new Bond theme, and
tipped Ellie Goulding to perform the honours.

What's trending?   Twitter participated in the #MinuteSilence to pay respects to
those killed in Tunisia a week ago.   On Facebook, a video released by the World
Wildlife Fund has gone viral after they attached a camera to a sea turtle

Sea turtle    While the most searched for news story on Google is Julian Assange
and his failed aylum bid in France.  Weather

Nice at the moment, but it is looking dire for overnight with a threat of
thunderstorms

weather

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Watford to pause to remember victims of Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Simon Farr

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 88 words


Watford will pause with the rest of Britain to remember the victims of the
Tunisia terror attack today.

Services will be held outside Watford Town Hall and Vicarage Road in tribute to
Chris Dyer, who was slaughtered in the Sousse massacre.

His wife Gina Van Dort, who was shot in the chin as she fled the gunman, was
flown back to the UK on Tuesday. She remains in hospital.

A nationwide silence will be observed at noon - a week after the outrage - and
flags will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments and Buckingham
Palace.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Mourners gather at Vicarage Road in silence for Watford FC supporter Chris Dyer
murdered in the Tunisia terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 120 words


Dozens of mourners gathered outside Vicarage Road to observe a minute silence
for Watford FC supporter Chris Dyer murdered in the Tunisia terror attack.

Around 50 people came to an unofficial tribute for the electrical engineer and
martial arts enthusiast outside the stadium to remember Chris and the other
victims of the Sousse massacre.

Chris' wife Gina Van Dort, who was shot in the chin as she fled the gunman, was
flown back to the UK on Tuesday. She remains in hospital.

A service was also held outside Watford Town Hall and the flag lowered in
tribute to Chris.

A nationwide silence was observed at noon - a week after the outrage - and flags
will be flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments and Buckingham Palace.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Wiltshire Council flies flags at half-mast in memory of Tunisia terror attack
victims

BYLINE: Andy Baber

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 159 words


WILTSHIRE Council remembered the victims of the Tunisia terror attacks today by
flying the Union flag at half-mast outside County Hall, before holding a
minute's silence.

The silence was observed at noon - a week after the shocking incident - across
the country, while flags were also flown at half-mast over Whitehall departments
and Buckingham Palace.

Elsewhere in the county, there was a service of remembrance at St Nicholas
Church in Biddestone, the village near Chippenham where 73-year-old victim
Eileen Swannack lived.

In Corsham, there was also a minute's silence and both the Town Hall and Corsham
Cricket Club flags were flown at half-mast in memory of Mrs Swannack's partner
John Welch, who lived in the town.

Their bodies were being repatriated at RAF Brize Norton, in Oxfordshire, today.

The couple were among 30 British victims killed in the beach massacre carried
out by Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse in Tunisia.



LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wimbledon Guardian

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Merton to fall silent to honour those who died in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Becky Middleton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words


People are invited to honour the victims of the Tunisia terror attack at a one
minute silence today.

The Wimbledon championships will come to a standstill for one minute, as will
Merton Council, which is hosting a public memorial outside the Civic Offices.

Silence will descend on Merton at noon to honour those who tragically lost their
lives in a Tunisia gun attack, including Janet and John Stocker.

Mrs Stocker worked at Sainsburys in north Cheam, and it has been reported the
couple lived in Morden.

Proceedings at the Civic Centre in Morden will begin at 11.55am with Reverend
Andrew Wakefield, who will lead into the one minute silence. The Imam of
Wimbledon mosque Molana Mohammad Shauib will conclude the event.

Council leader Stephen Alambritis and the mayor of Merton councillor David Chung
have already signed a book of condolence at the centre, which is available for
the public to sign.

Coun Alambritis said: "Our thoughts are with the family and friends of those who
lost their lives. What happened in Tunisia has shocked the world. It is
important, now more than ever, that all our communities come together to support
and promote peace."

The event comes days after the community pulled together to carry on with an
Armed Forces Day parade on Saturday despite a threat by so-called Islamic State
to detonate a bomb.

The plot was foiled by police and it continued as normal.

Richard Lewis, chief executive of the All England Club, said: "Wimbledon will be
joining the national minute's silence and we will be asking all those in the
grounds at the time to observe the silence out of respect to the victims in
Tunisia and their families."

Play on the outside courts will start at 12.15pm instead of 11.30am.

Do you wish to pay tribute to Mr and Mrs Stocker? Comment below or email
becky.middleton@london.newsquest.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Live: Join Worcester's noon tribute to victims of Tunisian terror attack.

BYLINE: John Wilson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 847 words



1:20pm


Thank you for following our live coverage of today's sombre event.


To sum up, Worcester fell silent for a minute at noon to honour victims of the
Tunisian beach attack, including Worcester University student Joel Richards.


Flags flew at half mast at the Guildhall and Worcester Cathedral, and their was
an act of remembrance at Worcester Arena.


We will round up this story in detail later.


1:19pm


The mum & brother of Joel Richards hand-in-hand outside Walsall FC for the one
min silence http://t.co/VJbr7aY79Q pic.twitter.com/URsK7qPdg6

- BBC Midlands Today (@bbcmtd) July 3, 2015


1:13pm


Did my minutes silence. RIP Joel & everyone else that got their lives taken by
such a vile man [#x2764]

- Heids (@HeidiSalisbury) July 3, 2015


1:08pm


A shopper in Worcester High Street pays her silent tribute to victims of the
attack


1:07pm


The Very Reverend Peter Atkinson, Dean of Worcester, lights a candle in memory
of the victims of the Tunisian Massacre. Picture by Jonathan Barry


12:55pm


Worcester Crown Court fell silent at noon for the Tunisia beach victims.


Witnesses and defendants stood in the main hall as courts ceased business
following a proclamation by court manager Tina Shanahan.


12:38pm


Mosques across the UK also fell silent to mark the occasion as Muslims paid
their own tributes during the holy month of Ramadan.


12:34pm


From James Connell in Castle Street:





Uniformed and non-uniformed officers observed the silence
pic.twitter.com/Ba3GW11HEU

- James Connell (@JamesConnell8) July 3, 2015


12:20pm


The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh pay tribute to the Tunisia terror attack victims
during a minute's silence in Glasgow pic.twitter.com/G25Qzq6v0D

- Press Association (@PA) July 3, 2015


12:20pm


Spectators stand during a minute's silence at the Wimbledon Tennis
Championships, as Britain remembers the victims of the Tunisia terror attack


12:17pm


From James Connell in Castle Street:





The superintendent of south Worcestershire Kevin Purcell pictured here in the
White shirt led the silence pic.twitter.com/Zof0EIjC1Q

- James Connell (@JamesConnell8) July 3, 2015


12:15pm


12:15pm


From David Cosgrove at Worcester Cathedral





Impeccable minute's silence at Worcester Cathedral pic.twitter.com/GID6sNViEq

- David Cosgrove (@DavidCosgroveWN) July 3, 2015


12:14pm


Reporter James Connell is with the police in Castle Street:





A sombre moment on a busy Worcester street as officers remember the slain in
Tunisia pic.twitter.com/rqBkURu0Ch

- James Connell (@JamesConnell8) July 3, 2015


12:13pm


David is our reporter in the city centre today:





Just spoken to Rev John Glover who said "the silence was powerful and very
moving" @worcesternews

- David Cosgrove (@DavidCosgroveWN) July 3, 2015


12:12pm


Members of the Armed Forces during the minute's silence at the All England Lawn
Tennis and Croquet Club, Wimbledon.


12:10pm


The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they visited the
University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre, while Prime
Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.


12:07pm


West Mercia officers observe silence for victims of Tunisia massacre outside
Worcester police station pic.twitter.com/e5wyqUN6Bm

- James Connell (@JamesConnell8) July 3, 2015


12:07pm


The @worcesternews falls silent for Tunisia terror victims:
http://t.co/ZMW7XWPHh1 pic.twitter.com/roPIMS2ovu

- John Wilson (@johnwilsonWN) July 3, 2015


11:59am


Minute's silence begins now


11:55am


The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh will join people across the country as they
pause for the silence at noon to remember those killed in the massacre.


11:44am


Our workforce will hold a one minute silence at noon in respect of those who
lost their lives in Tunisia last week #WeStandTogether

- West Mercia Police (@WMerciaPolice) July 3, 2015


11:38am


A reminder that today's Act of Remembrance at the University Arena is for
students and staff who knew Joel personally.

- University Worcester (@worcester_uni) July 3, 2015


11:37am


At 12 today I willbe holding a minutes silence to rember those whos lives where
taken in Tunisia, I will never forget what happened that day

- Luke Ditchburn (@ditchieno9) July 3, 2015


11:34am


... and over Worcester Cathedral


11:33am


The flag of St George is flying at half mast over Worcester's Guildhall today


11:26am


At noon Worcester Cathedral bell will begin to strike to herald the minute's
silence when everyone will be asked to remain stationary and silent.


The Very Reverend Peter Atkinson, Dean of Worcester, said: "We shall be mindful
of all the victims and their families, including Joel Richards, of Worcester
University, together with his uncle and grandfather.


"Prayers are offered daily in the cathedral for peace and reconciliation
throughout the world."


11:21am


Among those killed was 19-year-old University of Worcester student Joel
Richards.


All staff and students at the university have been invited to join in an act of
remembrance for him at 11.30am at the University Arena.


11:20am


Thirty-eight people, including 30 Britons, were killed when gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui opened fire in the resort of Sousse.


11:19am


So many people in Worcester thinking of Joel today. Click here for more.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worthing Herald

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Worthing to fall silent to mark Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 323  words


WORTHING will come to a standstill today (July 3) to pay tribute to those killed
during the brutal terrorist attack in Tunisia this time last week.

The town will be holding a minute of silence at midday to mark the tragedy,
which left 30 British nationals dead making it the worst terrorist attack on the
nation since the July 7 bombings in 2005.

The deputy chairman of Adur District Council, councillor Ann Bridges, and the
deputy mayor of Worthing, councillor Sean McDonald, will be marking the minute
on the steps of Worthing Town Hall, in Chapel Road.

A spokesman for the council said: "You are invited to join them in this
reflection on those who lost their lives and the families and friends who are
now living with this tragedy."

The nationwide silence comes a week after the shooting on a beach in Sousse
which saw gunman Seiffedine Rezgui walk on to the El Kantaoui resort and open
fire, killing 38 people.

Rezqui was killed by Tunisian police not long after beginning his callous
killing spree.

So far the bodies of 17 victims have been repatriated all being flown to RAF
Brize Norton.

More are expected to return on today and tomorrow.

The Tunisian authorities have arrested a number of people in connection with the
shooting, which is believed to have been organised by terrorist group Islamic
State (IS).

Yesterday saw a response from the Government's defence minister Michael Fallon
who urged Parliament to support stepping up the UK's aerial bombing campaign
against IS fighters in Syria.

Speaking in the House of Commons yesterday, Mr Fallon told MPs they should be in
absolutely no doubt the people who perpetrated the murders of our constituents
are going to be tracked down, whether they're in Libya, Syria or anywhere else'.

The RAF is currently supporting allied forces in bombing strategic IS
strongholds in Iraq.

Previously, the Prime Minister David Cameron ruled out a ground assault by
British troops in either Iraq or Syria.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPWD


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worthing Herald

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

VIDEO: Worthing's tribute after Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 611  words


DOZENS of people stopped in the street, bowed their heads and remained silent
for a minute today (July 3) to pay tribute to those killed in the Tunisian
terrorist attack exactly one week ago.

Councillors, shoppers and traders lined Chapel Road and the steps of Worthing
Town Hall to mark the national moment of remembrance at midday.

It comes after a terrorist from Islamic State (IS) shot and killed 38 people on
a beach in Tunisia last Friday, with 30 of his victims being British nationals.

With the Union flags outside the town hall at half mast, the deputy mayor of
Worthing, councillor Sean McDonald, welcomed all those who turned out to pay
their respects.

He reflected upon the atrocity and called residents to join them in the
minute-long tribute.

"We are gathered here today for a minute of silence to remember those who lost
their lives and to reflect on what a world without terror would be like," he
said.

"This is not a moment for dramatic speeches, it's a moment for quiet
reflection."

Town crier and former mayor, Bob Smytherman then rang the bell at the stroke of
midday, launching the one-minute silence.

People of all ages stood still to witness the solemn event.

After the 60 second silence was completed, Ann Bridges, vice chairman of Adur
District Council thanked those for turning out for the commemoration.

She said: "While we remember those who have lost their lives in this horrific
attack, we must also give a thought for their friends, families and loved ones
who will shoulder an unimaginable loss for the rest of their lives.

"I hope they know that they have the support of the people of Adur and Worthing
behind them as they work to move forward with their lives."

The tributes came as the latest bodies of the Britains killed on the beach in
Sousse by gunman Seiffedine Rezgui were flown back to the UK.

Rezqui was shot and killed by Tunisian police not long after beginning his
murderous assault.

However, more of his victims are expected to be flown back to the country on an
RAF plane, tomorrow.

Speaking to the Herald after the minute silence in Worthing, Mr McDonald paid
tribute to the Tunisians who put their lives on the line to protect frightened
holidaymakers.

He said: "This type of thing has affected everyone in this country. Either
people know someone that has been directly affected or they have visited the
country and recognise the area.

"The fact that this was one terrorist isn't going to put people off. The gunman
may have been a Tunisian but he was one man. There were plenty of other
Tunisians that risked their lives to help save others.

"This country is hugely dependent on tourism and we should stand by them in
solidarity against terrorism."

The assault was the worst terrorist attack against UK citizens since the July 7
bombings in London, in 2005.

In that instance 52 people were killed by four suicide bombers.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage at {http://www.worthingherald.co.uk/|
www.worthingherald.co.uk/ | www.worthingherald.co.uk/}

2) Like our Facebook page at {https://www.facebook.com/Worthing.news |
www.facebook.com/Worthing.news| www.facebook.com/Worthing.news}

3) Follow us on Twitter {https://twitter.com/Worthing_Herald | @Worthing_Herald
| @Worthing_Herald}

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

The Worthing Herald - always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPWD


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Video: Britain honours victims of Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 624  words


Britain has remembered the victims of the Tunisia terror attack with a minute's
silence.

The silence was observed at noon - a week after the outrage - with flags flown
at half-mast over Whitehall departments and Buckingham Palace.

The bodies of 17 of the 30 British victims killed in the beach massacre have
been returned to the UK and more are expected to be repatriated today and
tomorrow.

The British victims were among the 38 holidaymakers who were killed by
Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were among the dead.

The first inquests into the deaths of the Britons will open at West London
Coroner's Court today.

Coroner Chinyere Inyama is expected to open and adjourn the hearings in which a
headline cause of death will be confirmed and the bodies will be released to
families.

Recent days have seen military personnel complete the solemn task of receiving
some of the victims on British soil in a ceremony at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire.

Members of the RAF Regiment's Queen's Colour Squadron unloaded the coffins from
the RAF C-17 transport plane used to bring them back from Tunisia into the
waiting hearses.

They were watched by relatives of the dead who were present at the air base.

Holiday operators Thomson and First Choice have confirmed that all 30 British
victims were their customers.

It is believed Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who helped
him to carry out the atrocity and the Tunisian government said it had made a
number of arrests.

Eight people - seven men and one woman - were in custody, suspected of having
direct links to the massacre, but four others had been released, government
minister Kamel Jendoubi said.

He said the investigation "has allowed us to discover the network behind the
operation in Sousse".

According to Tunisian officials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp at
the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in March,
killing 22 people.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon vowed that those responsible for the massacre
would be "tracked down".

The Metropolitan Police said 76 family liaison officers across the country were
supporting the families of those killed and the survivors while hundreds of
counter terrorism officers were helping the international response to the
attack.

Specialist advisers have also been deployed to Tunisia by the National Policing
Counter Terrorism Headquarters to assist the Foreign Office and Tunisian
authorities in reviewing security at other tourist resorts and attractions.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "With the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
remaining at severe, the UK police service is continually reviewing security to
help ensure people and places are as safe as possible."

He appealed for anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed the attack to contact the
confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

He also said that dedicated email addresses for people to send any images and
information "that may assist" in the investigation has also been set up.

****

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has confirmed the names of all the British
nationals killed in the Tunisia attack. They are:

Christopher and Sharon Bell; Lisa Mary Burbidge; Scott Chalkley and Sue Davey;
Stuart Cullen; Christopher Dyer; Adrian Evans, Pat Evans and Joel Richards;
Angie and Ray Fisher; Lisa and William Graham; Philip Heathcote; Trudy Jones;
Carly Lovett; Ann and James McQuire; Stephen Mellor; Janet and John Stocker;
John Stollery; Eileen Swannack and John Welch; David Thompson; Denis and Elaine
Thwaites; Bruce Wilkinson; Claire Windass.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

South Korea condemns ''terrorist'' attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report by South Korean news agency Yonhap

Seoul, 3 July: South Korea on Friday [3 July] condemned recent deadly terrorist
attacks in Egypt that killed more than 100 people.

South Korea also offered deep condolences to Egyptians and the families of those
killed in the attacks.

"We strongly condemned these terrorist acts," the Foreign Ministry said in a
statement.

The statement came two days after suicide bombings in military outposts in Egypt
left more than 100 people dead, including soldiers, militants and civilians.

Egypt's top prosecutor Hisham Barakat was assassinated in a separate attack late
last month.

Source: Yonhap news agency, Seoul, in English 1444gmt 04 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 10:56 AM GMT

Major new BBC drama tells story of 7/7 terror attacks

BYLINE: By David Young

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 175 words


The BBC will tomorrow screen a major drama based on the memoirs of a mother
whose daughter was killed in the 7/7 terrorist attacks in London 10 years ago.

Julie Nicholson's daughter Jenny (24) died when suicide bomber Mohammad Sidique
Khan blew himself up at Edgware Road tube station.

Adapted by award-winning Irish playwright Frank McGuinness, A Song For Jenny
stars Oscar-nominated British actress Emily Watson, who was six months pregnant
when Islamic suicide bombers killed 52 people across London.

In an interview with the Belfast Telegraph today, the actress speaks of how
close she came to the horror of that day.

"I was about to get on the Tube, but just heard on the radio before I went out
that something was happening. I just remember that moment when you heard there's
been an explosion on a bus, and you knew that this was a deliberate act - a very
chilling moment."

Emily (48), who plays Bristol Church of England vicar Julie Nicholson, added: "I
came away from (the role) with a most incredibly profound respect for her as a
moral human being."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

Bradfordians speak of their sadness over Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Claire Wilde

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 484 words


THE flag was flown at half mast above City Hall yesterday as people gathered to
remember those killed in the Tunisia terror attack.

A minute's silence was observed across the UK at noon to remember the 38
victims, including 30 Britons, who died in the beachfront massacre a week ago.

The Lord Mayor of Bradford, Councillor Joanne Dodds, had invited the public to
join her in Centenary Square as the nation fell silent.

Around 200 people gathered there to pay their respects, including Bradford South
MP Judith Cummins and Council leader Councillor David Green.

As the City Hall bells chimed the hour, silence fell across the square as people
of all backgrounds and ages remembered the dead.

The Lord Mayor's chaplain, the Rev Paul Bilton, then led a prayer.

He said: "We remember before God this day those who lost their lives through an
act of terrorism, including the 30 British people.

"We remember especially today their families and friends as they struggle to
come to terms with such a life-changing event for themselves.

"And as we go about our daily lives then we remember them and think of them in
the safety of our own communities and our own lives.

"Also we remember this day all who strive for peace in our world."

Among those attending were a group of young people from the One in a Million
Alternative Provision.

Aaisha Anwar, 16, of Lidget Green, said: "There were 30 British victims, which
is disgusting. Nobody should die like that, it's a horrible death.

"We have come down today to show our respects and compassion."

Also in the crowd was Wendy Mounce, of Bolton, Bradford, who is originally from
Cornwall.

She said she had been particularly saddened by the death of Stephen Mellor, from
Bodmin, Cornwall, who was killed as he shielded his wife Cheryl during the beach
massacre a week ago.

Marla Scully, who lives off Otley Road, Bradford, said: "It's just an awful
thing to happen. It can happen anywhere, can't it, now?

"I just feel sorry for all the families."

Joan Dawson, who also lives off Otley Road, added: "Why can't they just live in
peace?"

In Keighley, the Mayor of Keighley, Councillor Javaid Akhtar, organised a
minute's silence in the town hall square.

Similar events were held across the nation.

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they visited the
University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre, while Prime
Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.

Meanwhile, at a Muslim community centre in Bradford, one member has been
personally affected by the tragic attack in Tunisia.

Rail conductor Imran Hussain was left shocked by the death of his colleague,
Leeds train station staff member Chris Bell, who was killed along with his wife
Sharon.

The IslamBradford Centre, in City Road, has written a letter of condolence for
their family, and will present it along with a collection to a representative
from Northern Rail shortly.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

TUNISIA TERRORISM ATTACK: WHAT IS KNOWN SO FAR

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6-7

LENGTH: 196  words


IN the wake of the deadly attacks in Sousse, on the northern coast of Tunisia,
teams of investigators are still trying to piece together exactly what happened.

The gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui, was an electronics student and not previously
known to the security service.

He was from the Tunisian town of Gaafour, away from the coast, and had studied
in the city of Kairouan.

Unlike many Tunisian radicals he was not believed to have gone to Syria or Iraq
to join militants fighting there.

The so-called Islamic State has since claimed responsibility for the attack, in
which 38 people lost their lives.

Witnesses described how Rezgui arrived by boat, with a Kalashnikov hidden inside
a parasol.

He then fired indiscriminately at tourists outside the five-star Hotel Rui
Imperial Marhaba. As holidaymakers fled, the gunman continued his attack,
entering the hotel grounds through the pool area. He then proceeded to the
reception, and is thought to have thrown a   grenade.

More than 1,000 Tunisian troops have been deployed to protect the country's
beaches.

The attack came just days before the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 attacks on the
London Underground  and a bus in central London.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 4:35 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: The bodies of four Scots who died in the beach massacre
have been released to their families;
THE bodies of William and Lisa Graham and James and Ann McQuire were repatriated
back to London for post-mortems and will now be taken to Scotland, at the
families' request.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


THE bodies of four Scottish tourists killed in the Tunisia terror attack have
been released to their families.

West London Coroner's Court heard details of the beach massacre today as
inquests into the deaths of four of the 30 British victims were formally opened.

It came as the final five bodies of the murdered Britons arrived at RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire in an RAF C-17 aircraft this afternoon.

The coffins carrying Lisa Burbidge, Stuart Cullen, Christopher Dyer, Bruce
Wilkinson and Claire Windass will be loaded on to hearses and taken in convoy to
the same coroner's court.

Tunisia's president has declared a state of emergency in the wake of attack that
shocked the north African country last week.

Today's inquest heard William Graham, 51, died from gunshot wounds to his pelvis
while his wife Lisa Graham, 50, died from gunshot wounds to her chest.

James and Ann McQuire, aged 66 and 63, were both fatally shot in the chest, the
coroner was told.

Their bodies were repatriated back to London for post-mortems to be carried out
and will now be taken to Scotland, at the families' request.

They were all formally identified by their dental records.

Chinyere Inyama, senior coroner for West London, said the victims' bodies will
be released to their families and authorised transportation to Scotland.

"I'm going to suspend the investigation pending completion of parallel
investigations in both Tunisia and the UK," he said.

The inquests have been adjourned for a date to be set. The first inquests into
the deaths of the eight British victims were opened and adjourned yesterday.

Thirty Britons were among 38 victims killed by Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened
fire in the resort of Sousse at around 11.15am on Friday June 26.

Detective Sergeant David Batt of the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism
Command told the inquest the shootings lasted around 30 minutes.

"Tourists were indiscriminately targeted by the gunman," he said in a statement
read during the hearings.

"The gunman was shot by security services."

The bodies of the victims were moved to the central mortuary in Tunis after they
were killed, he added.

"Senior UK police identification managers have assisted in Tunisia and in the UK
to oversee the identification process," he said.

Mr Batt said 275 witness accounts have been taken by police so far, and more
than 1,200 potential witnesses have returned to the UK.

"Accounts are being taken from those who are deemed significant," he added.

Police were patrolling the streets around the coroner's court and a large number
of officers guarded a fenced-off area surrounding a white tent close to the
building.

Flowers and cards were piled on the pavement nearby.

Yesterday the Queen and the Prime Minister joined millions of people across the
country in a minute's silence in tribute to those killed.

Quick Quiz: News 3/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Could the carnage have been worse?;
Ten years ago, 52 people died in terrorist attacks on London. Here, the
survivors and security forces recall the harrowing day

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27,28

LENGTH: 2252 words


Ten years ago this Tuesday, on July 7 2005, Londoners awoke to a bright summer's
day and went about their business with a spring in their step. Their city had
just been named the venue for the 2012 Olympic Games, confirming its global
status. Better still, it had beaten Paris to the prize.

At 7.20 that morning, Sir Ian Blair, commissioner of the Metropolitan Police,
appeared on BBC Radio 4's Today programme to discuss how Scotland Yard would
ensure the security of such a big event. He said his force's anti-terrorist
preparations were considered "the envy of the policing world". Yet even as he
spoke, four men, each carrying a rucksack packed with explosives, were making
their way on to the London transport system to turn his words to dust.

Shortly before 9am, the first bomb ripped through a Circle Line train on the
London Underground just after it had left Aldgate station. First reports
suggested a "power outage". But when another device exploded five minutes later
on a Piccadilly Line train travelling west from King's Cross to Russell Square,
it was apparent that the capital was under attack.

By this point, 28 people had been killed and dozens injured. Emergency services
began arriving as smoke billowed out of the Tube tunnels. At 9.17, another bomb
shattered a west-bound Circle Line train as it was leaving Edgware Road station.
The blast tore through a wall and caused damage to two other trains. Seven
people were killed and dozens injured. Then, at 9.47, a fourth device went off
on a No 30 bus from Hackney Wick to Marble Arch as it passed by Tavistock
Square, ripping off the roof and killing 13 passengers. In all, 52 travellers
died and 700 were injured. It was the worst terrorist attack on British soil.
But who was responsible?

Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, was attending the regular Thursday Cabinet
when a note was passed to him. "It was an unusual meeting because the Prime
Minister was at the G8 summit in Gleneagles and John Prescott was chairing it,"
he recalls. "The note said there had been some kind of problem on the
Underground but no one knew what it was. A few minutes later, another note came
in saying it was an explosion, and John adjourned the Cabinet and I convened a
meeting of Cobra [Whitehall's emergency committee]."

As the Cobra session got under way, what most concerned the participants was the
possibility of more bombs. Counter-terror chiefs from Scotland Yard and MI5
arrived laden with briefings and contingency plans. It was a sign of the times
that they were not surprised, and the emergency services were ready. Within
three hours, 1,200 hospital beds were available to receive the casualties, as
doctors and nurses from across the capital and beyond responded to the call for
help.

"We had been rehearsing for something like this," Clarke says. "We had
well-established procedures. Our overriding worry was whether there would be
another attack. The biggest decision was whether to shut down the entire
transport system, which would be massively disruptive and look like a victory
for the bombers." Although the Tube was closed for much of the day, the
government decided against a complete lockdown.

Over at Scotland Yard, there was also a sense that a moment had come for which
the police were well prepared. After a 30-year IRA campaign on mainland Britain,
no other force in the world had the Met's experience dealing with bomb attacks.
But this was different. Unlike with the Irish republicans, no warnings were
given and the perpetrators had been willing to kill themselves in order to
inflict as much carnage as possible.

But even if the suicide element was a new departure, the July 7 attack did not
come out of the blue: the police and MI5 had already thwarted a number of
Islamist plots, notably the previous year when Operation Crevice smashed a
conspiracy to target a shopping centre, nightclub and the gas network with a
giant fertiliser bomb.

That morning, Peter Clarke, then head of counter-terrorism at the Met, was still
at home waiting for a plumber; the first he knew of the outrage was when his
teenage son rang him from King's Cross to say smoke was coming from the Tube.
Within an hour, he was at his desk heading what would be the most harrowing
investigation of his career.

Coincidentally, the Met had staged an exercise just the previous weekend on
possible scenarios arising from multiple attacks on the Underground. Now they
had to deal with one for real, though nothing prepared the officers for the
sheer horror of what confronted them. "It was ghastly," Clarke recalls. "People
were working in appalling conditions, hot and dark, to retrieve every detail,
not just for the investigation but for the inquest."

At Thames House, the headquarters of MI5, the priority on July 7 was to find out
who was behind the attacks. Officers searched through their records and
contacted sources to see if any signs had been missed. "We didn't know then that
they were suicide bombers and had to work on the assumption that there was a
team still out there," says Eliza Manningham-Buller, then directorgeneral of the
Security Service. Within a few days, the identities of the bombers were known
and the country faced another shock: these were not foreign al-Qaeda operatives
flown in to attack Britain, but Muslim men who had been brought up here. The
ringleader was 30-year-old classroom assistant Mohammad Sidique Khan, who left a
video declaring: "We are at war and I am a soldier. Now you too will taste the
reality of this situation." It later transpired that two of the bombers had been
on MI5's radar in connection with another Islamist plot, but both Parliament's
Intelligence and Security Committee and the inquest acknowledged that the attack
could not reasonably have been prevented.

"We always ask ourselves whether, if we had done X rather than Y, the outcome
would have been different, but that is a persistent dilemma," says Lady
Manningham-Buller. "Conceivably, we might not have stopped an even worse attack
somewhere else."

Ten years on, it can at least be said there have been no further mass casualty
atrocities on British soil, though several major plots have been thwarted.
Procedures have been changed - MI5 now has nearly double the staff and a network
of regional offices - and the police and intelligence agencies work as closely
together as possible. As Ian Blair said, it is a model the rest of world admires
- but this guarantees nothing. Charles Clarke believes his attempt as Home
Secretary to merge the country's police forces into larger units should still be
pursued, and he regrets the continued civil liberties objections to tougher
surveillance powers. Security sources say that the big problem, as David Cameron
implied recently, remains the ability to gather intelligence from within Muslim
communities, a task that is even more important today when so many young people
are being radicalised in their own homes over the internet.

The current threat level is "severe" - above where it stood on July 7 2005 -
meaning that an attack is "highly likely". Last week's slaughter of 30 British
tourists in Tunisia is a grim reminder of the constant threat from violent
Islamist extremism, whether on a Mediterranean beach or a London bus.

"On the day itself, we were all focusing on our professional tasks," says Lady
Manningham-Buller. "But what I will be thinking about on Tuesday is the
appalling carnage, the dreadful human tragedy of it all."

THE RELATIVE

'Would she be married now, with a family?'

John Taylor

66, from Billericay in Essex, is the father of 24-year-old Carrie Taylor, who
was killed by Shehzad Tanweer's bomb at Aldgate station, which killed six
others.

Every day I think what might have been if Carrie, our only daughter, had
survived. Would she be married and have a family, would we be grandparents? The
sense of loss never goes. Her brother, Simon, 38, still lives at home, and we do
everything together. The difference is we are missing one. At restaurants, there
are always four chairs, and we take her passport and photographs of her with us
on holiday; it's our way of keeping her with us.

I remember every detail of the day itself and those that followed: watching the
news for hours, the hundreds of unanswered calls to her mobile, trips to
hospitals to see if anyone had heard of her, police officers calling at our home
with no news, then returning to take DNA from Carrie's room.

I spoke at the inquest five years later to help establish what had happened and
ensure lessons were learnt. Carrie had been alive for 20-25 minutes, but it was
almost half an hour before she was seen by a paramedic, by which time it was too
late.

Carrie had so much to live for. She had only just been given a permanent
position at the Royal Society of Arts and wanted to work in theatre.

Four individuals took away Carrie's future, along with 51 other innocent
people's lives, and destroyed countless others in the process. I still feel the
same way about them as I did on the day of the attacks. This country will never
give in to extremism.

PEACE ADVOCATE

'It's so vital to unite in the face of extremism'

Gill Hicks

47, lost both legs and was close to death after she was caught in an explosion
in the London Underground on her way to work in Covent Garden.

I only recently completed the Tube journey I started on the morning of July 7th,
2005. I took the Piccadilly Line from Kings Cross to Covent Garden, got out and
said: "That's it, I'm done." I'll never take the Underground again.

I can't believe that the bombing was 10 years ago. The acute nature of my
injuries mean I've been in a constant learning process ever since. My memories
of the day are still so vivid. The bomb was detonated in the time it took to
draw a breath, and suddenly we were all plummeted into a black abyss.

It was an hour before the emergency responders could get to us. Fellow commuters
had put me on what remained of a bench seat. I could assess my injuries and,
somehow, I was able to stay calm and focused.

From the moment I survived, the euphoria and gratefulness of having a life has
superseded everything. I've been married, divorced. My little girl, Amelie, is
now two-and-a-half years old and that's the greatest achievement of all and a
testament to everybody who saved my life.

I have since done lots of work with the community in Beeston - where several of
the bombers were from. We all feel it is so important to unite and show strength
in the face of violent extremism.

I've seen the brilliance of humanity and know, because of that, that terrorism
will never work.

But I've also realised how angry I am. I'm angry at the loss of life and the
loss of my limbs. I have asked myself countless times ever since, "What was the
point?"

THE SURVIVOR

'It was like the world had gone mad'

George Roskilly

72, was four feet away from bomber Jermaine Lindsay, who detonated his device on
the Tube between King's Cross and Russell Square, killing 26 people.

stretchers, so covered in black soot it was impossible to determine whether they
were male or female. It was surreal, like the world had gone mad. I just wanted
to get home.

In the days afterwards my wife, Nita, wanted me to go to the doctor but I
couldn't. It wasn't until February the next year that I realised how traumatised
I still was. I had papered over my feelings, but one of my grandsons started
crying during dinner and the sound set something off, bringing everything back.
I just broke down.

I spent a year in counselling and realised I was suffering from survivor's
guilt.

I am much better now but still jump at loud noises and am nervous on the Tube -
and I have had one blackout.

This anniversary, I will travel to Russell Square, as I do every year, with
other survivors to reflect on how lucky I am to be alive.

THE LIFESAVER

'Lives were at risk. I needed to act'

Elizabeth Kenworthy

54, an off-duty police officer, was two carriages away from the bomb at Aldgate
station. She was awarded an MBE for her heroism in saving the lives of Martine
Wright and Andrew Brown.

We'd barely pulled out of Liverpool Street when there was an almighty bang and
people started to shout for help. I had no idea what happened, but instinct took
over. The carriage looked as if it had been disembowelled: wires were hanging,
there was blood everywhere. But a strange calmness took over. Lives were at
risk, I needed to act.

I applied first aid to two causalties [Martine Wright and Andrew Brown], both
whose legs were missing, by making a tourniquet from my jacket and using a
T-shirt and tie from another passenger. All my energy was focused on talking to
them, holding their hands, wiping soot from their mouths - keeping them alive
until help came about 40 minutes later.

Andrew is a lifelong friend now. Every anniversary of the bombings, we travel to
Aldgate together, lay flowers and share a coffee. Despite his life-changing
injuries, he is able to work and drive a car. Martine is a Paralympic volleyball
player. She is married and has a baby now. As a result of what they have
achieved, my daughter Emily, 22, has become an occupational therapist.

I was awarded an MBE, but the real heroes are the paramedics and servicemen who
came down on to the tracks having no idea what had happened. I still think about
those I wasn't able to save, turning the events over and over, wondering if I
should have done things differently.

'We didn't know they were suicide bombers and had to assume more were out there'

'It was ghastly. People were working in appalling conditions, hot and dark'

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under attack: 13 people were killed on the No 30 bus in Tavistock
SquareFrom left, Mohammad Sidique Khan, Jermaine Lindsay and Shehzad TanweerThe
first bomb was on the Circle Line train just after it left Aldgate stationPA;
ANDREW CROWLEY; DANIEL JONES; APA woman injured in the bomb blast at Edgware
Road Tube station is given emergency first aid and comforted as she is led to
safety

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain falls silent for beach massacre victims;
FLAGS AT HALF MAST ACROSS UK FOR 30 KILLED IN ISLAMIST TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 498 words


BRITAIN paid tribute to the victims of the Tunisia terror attack with a minute's
silence.

The nation paused at noon yesterday to reflect on last Friday's atrocity and
remember the 30 British people killed in the beach front massacre.

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they visited the
University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre, while Prime
Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.

Just before the silence, an inquest was opened into the death of engineer
Stephen Mellor, from Bodmin, Cornwall, who was killed as he shielded his wife
Cheryl during the beach massacre a week ago.

West London Coroner's Court heard that Mr Mellor was killed by gunshot wounds to
the chest and abdomen.

The hearing was told that 275 witness accounts had been taken by police, while
more than 1,200 potential witnesses had returned to the UK.

As pedestrians and tourists alike bowed their head in London's Parliament Square
during the silence, the flags above Whitehall fluttered at half mast, a poignant
symbol that was mirrored at public buildings throughout the country, including
at Buckingham Palace. Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid also joined the UK's
ambassador to the country Hamish Cowell at a memorial event on the beach in
Sousse - where Mr Cowell met members of the hotel's staff to thank them for
their role helping British nationals.

Armed police patrolled the beach while dozens of tourists also gathered around a
sea of flowers at the scene of the attacks.

Mosques across the UK also fell silent to mark the occasion as Muslims paid
their own tributes during the holy month of Ramadan.

The Muslim Council of Britain urged British Muslims to make their voices heard
to pray for peace, and to speak out against terrorism.

It called on mosques and imams to deliver a sermon of peace at Friday prayers,
to remind people "that these killers do not respect the sanctity of life as laid
down in Islam".

The British victims were among 38 holidaymakers who were killed by Seifeddine
Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
were among the dead.

It is believed that Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who
helped him to carry out the atrocity and the Tunisian government said it had
since made a number of arrests.

Eight people - seven men and one woman - were still in custody, suspected of
having direct links to the massacre, but four others had been released,
government minister Kamel Jendoubi said.

According to Tunisian offi-cials, the gunman trained at a Libyan jihadist camp
at the same time as the two gunmen who attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis in
March, killing 22 people.

The Metropolitan Police said that 76 family liaison officers across the country
were supporting the families of those killed and the survivors while hundreds of
counter terrorism officers were helping the international response to the
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Among those observing the silence in North Wales yesterday: Gwynedd
county council ¦workers in Caernarfon (left) and security staff at Prestatyn
magistrates' court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Derby Telegraph

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

Terror attack victim Scott's body is back on home soil

BYLINE: BY ISAAC CROWSON; 01332 411999; isaac.crowson@ derbytelegraph.co.uk;
@icrowson

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 2-3

LENGTH: 506  words


THE body of a Derby man who was murdered in the terror attack  in Tunisia has
been brought back to the UK.

Scott Chalkley, of Chaddesden, died alongside his partner, Sue Davey, when a
gunman killed  38 people, including 30 Britons, on Friday, June 26.

Their bodies were brought back to RAF Brize Norton in an RAF C-17 aircraft.

A close family friend of Mr Chalkley said it was good to have his body back in
the country.

Aaron King, of Sinfin, had known Mr Chalkley for around 20 years and described
him as a "legend".

The 40-year-old said: "We're really pleased that he's back in the country and
it's good to see that.

"He was a brilliant bloke and a close friend. He was a cracking guy and I'll
remember him as a  cheeky chap who was always there for everyone.

"You couldn't ask for a better person.  When I heard he'd died, I was
heartbroken. He's got two brilliant lads and it's important now that they can
pull through it.

"He's got a strong set of friends who will be able to help."

To honour  him, Mr Chalkley's friends have organised a memorial tournament in
which teams will compete for the Scott Chalkley and Sue Davey Memorial Shield.

It is due to be held on August 23 at Redwood Park, Sinfin.

Yesterday, around 200 people gathered at the Market Place in Derby at noon to
take part in  a national minute of silence  to pay tribute to the victims of the
attack.

Derby's minute of silence was led by dignitaries including Mid Derbyshire MP
Pauline Latham, the Mayor of Derby, Paul Pegg, and his deputy Mark Tittley.

Also members of the public laid flowers, including  Joy Loveless and her
nine-year-old daughter, Scarlett. She said her family knew Mr Chalkley's son,
Ross Naylor.

Charlotte laid some roses at the scene as a sign of respect.

Joy, of Oakwood, said: "It's a heartbreaking situation and it makes it worse
when it's so close to home.

"Ross is a  lovely lad and we all feel so sorry for him. It's shocking. We
wanted to come together and do something special so that's why we laid the
flowers.

"We wanted to just help and I think it's a good idea to bring the city together
like this. The turnout is fantastic and I think we've done the city proud."

Other victims   repatriated yesterday were   Christopher and Sharon Bell,  Angie
and Ray Fisher, Eileen Swannack, and John Welch.

Islamic State has claimed it was behind the attack on a beach in the resort of
Sousse.

Mid Derbyshire MP Pauline Latham warned that further attacks by Islamic State
could be on the horizon.

She said: "I don't believe this is the last and I hope the intelligence services
are doing all they can to stop them.

"What's happened is truly tragic and awful."

And Derby North MP Amanda Solloway, in whose constituency   Mr Chalkley lived,
said she was horrified at the attacks.

She said: "When somebody dies like this, it's heartbreaking. My thoughts are
with his family and friends at such an awful time.

"I think the turnout from the people of Derby has been very impressive and it
sends a clear message out   that  we are there for all of the victims."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scott Chalkley's coffin is carried from the aircraft at RAF Brize
Norton.
Scott Chalkley who was killed in Tunisia alongside his partner, Sue Davey.
Joy Loveless and her daughter Scarlett were among those paying tribute in Derby
Market Place.
The gathering in Derby Market Place where a minute's silence was held in honour
of the Tunisia victims.
At the Royal Derby Hospital, volunteers, from left, Alan Naylor, Gordon Wain,
Carolyn Baldwin and Kieran Durkan took part in the minute's silence.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 9:26 PM GMT

Tunisia declares state of emergency following Sousse terror attack which killed
30 Britons

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 408 words


TUNISIA has declared a state of emergency today, just over a week after 30
Britons were slaughtered by an Islamic State gunman at a popular holiday resort.

PA

Tunisia has declared a state of emergency today

The country's president announced the move, which temporarily gives the
government the power to restrict freedoms including people's right to protest
and bolsters police powers.

The news came on the same day that the final five bodies of the Britons killed
in the beach massacre landed back in the UK.

Yesterday, the families of the 30 British people who were killed in Sousse
joined with the Queen, the Prime Minister and millions around the country in a
minute's silence.

They were amongst the 38 gunned down by Islamic State gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui's, who went on the rampage on a beach in Sousse whilst high on cocaine.

Tunisia's government has promised to hand police new powers to help them more
effectively tackle terrorism, with harsher penalties for anyone found guilty.

The country's prime minister has also said the government will post armed guards
at tourist sites and close mosques outside government control.

AP

The country's prime minister has vowed to place armed guards at tourist spots

PA

Islamic State gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on innocent tourists

Today the Foreign Office confirmed that the final victims to be repatriated to
Britain were Lisa Burbidge, Stuart Cullen, Christopher Dyer, Bruce Wilkinson and
Claire Windass.

Their coffins were due to be loaded on to hearses and taken in convoy to West
London Coroner's Court in Fulham, where inquests into their deaths will be held.



Chinyere Inyama, senior coroner for West London, opened the first inquests into
eight of the Britons killed in the tragedy yesterday

The court heard evidence about the deadly wounds inflicted on the tourists after
Rezgui opened fire on them with a Kalashnikov machine gun.

AP

Mourners lay flowers at the scene of the massacre in Sousse

AP

The final British victims were repatriated from Syria today Related articles
Tunisia terror attack: Daughter buries parents on her birthday as more bodies
return to UK EXCLUSIVE: 'Shun fanatics who radicalise children' demands leader
of millions of Muslims David Cameron to pay tribute to British victims of
Tunisia attack by unveiling memorial EXCLUSIVE:Britain to send Special Foreces
to 'seek and destroy' ISIS terrorists in Tunisia Britain faces BIGGEST threat
from terrorism in a decade, warns MI5

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Imams 'totally condemn'Tunisa terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 185 words


MUSLIMS in Kirklees have condemned the terror attack in Tunisia.

Following the horrific attack in Tunisia and other attacks in France and Kuwait,
Moulana Hashim Sacha, who chairs the Rabetah group of Muslim scholars, said:
"The Islamic Scholars of Rabetah together with other Imams in Kirklees totally
condemn all attacks on innocent people.

"We are all disgusted and sickened by violence taking place across the globe in
the name of our peaceful religion, Islam.

"Terrorism is completely alien to Islamic civilisation.

"If the perpetrators think they are advancing the cause of Islam and Muslims,
then they are severely mistaken and totally misguided.

"It is in fact having the opposite effect. These misguided people are killing
innocent Muslims and non-Muslims.

"The month of Ramadhan is supposed to be for inner contemplation, reflection,
compassion, forgiveness and charity. A month where Muslims draw nearer to god.

"Our thoughts, sympathies and prayers are with the victims and their families.

"We know that the authorities in Tunisia are doing their best to apprehend the
perpetrators and bring them to justice."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ People pay their respects after observing a minute's silence at the
Banks's ¦Stadium in Walsall in memory of the victims of the Tunisia terror
attack which claimed the lives of Walsall fans Patrick Evans, Adrian Evans and
Joel Richards

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  July 4, 2015
                                 First Edition

Tunisian officials were warned of imminent attack - but did nothing;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Yasmine Ryan IN TUNIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 463 words


The Tunisian interior ministry received an alert in May of an imminent attack in
Sousse, but failed to act on the information, the head of a security watchdog
has told i.

In official wiretaps of individuals linked to terrorism in Sousse, one
individual was heard saying he would "burn a car" - known code for ordering an
attack to be carried out.

The officer who listened to the call reported the conversation to the
appropriate department in the interior ministry, but no action was taken,
according to Walid Zarrouk, a former senior prison guard and the head of
Mourakeb, an NGO which monitors security officials.

"When the attack happened in June, and we have some information since May,
something isn't working," Mr Zarrouk said. The alleged intelligence failure was
due to a general state of "anarchy" within the interior ministry, and a lack of
political will in the face of widespread corruption and poor discipline, Mr
Zarrouk said. The interior ministry was not available for comment.

Mr Zarrouk's account follows revelations, reported by i on Wednesday, that talk
of an attack on tourists had been widespread on pro-Isis internet forums and
Twitter accounts since late February.

Mr Zarrouk has been one of Tunisia's most outspoken critics of corruption and
political interference within the security establishment since 2011, founding
the Prison Guards Union, a leading reformist group. A year ago, he quit the
security forces to found Mourakeb and retains many highly placed sources inside
the security sector.

The interior ministry building was the beating heart of former President Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali's police state. More than 180 top anti-terrorist and
intelligence officers have been dismissed since Ben Ali's removal from power, as
the new government has sought to break from the corruption and human rights
abuses of the past. But the knock-on effect has left a security service with
little or no expertise in counter-terrorism.

A police officer, speaking anonymously, said many in the force felt the top
commanders were too afraid to investigate the country's terrorist networks.
"It's a catastrophe," the of-ficer said. "The chiefs are afraid because they
know that these groups are linked to politicians."

This is not the first attempt to strike tourists on the beach where the Imperial
Marhaba Hotel lies. In October 2013, a man blew himself up in a failed attack
just six miles south along the same coastline.

Tribute Minute's silence Britain yesterday paid tribute to those killed in the
Tunisian beach massacre with a minute's silence. At noon, the Queen and the
Prime Minister joined millions of Britons in remembering those killed on the
beach at Sousse. So far, 25 of the 30 British victims have been returned to the
UK, with the final five returning tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

Darwen mother injured by grenade blast in Tunisia terror attack 'still in shock'

BYLINE: MICHAEL MORRISON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words


A MOTHER injured along with her daughter in the Tunisia terror attack said she
is struggling to come to terms with what happened.

Carol and Naomi Wearing were injured by a grenade blast as they walked to have
lunch in Sousse.

The 46-year-old was told she could face an operation to remove shrapnel from her
knee and foot but was sent home, with her daughter, from Royal Blackburn
Hospital this week without going under the knife.

Still unable to walk, the Crown Paints worker faces six weeks off her feet as
she recovers at her Astley Heights home.

She said: "They decided to leave it. The shrapnel shattered the bone in my foot,
but they can't operate on it. It is hanging there at the minute. I can't walk on
it or move it.

"Naomi is not too bad. She is a lot better than she was. She still has stitches
to be taken out but they are healing well."

And while Carol has been able to read newspaper articles and watch television
reports on the Sousse massacre, she said Naomi, 18, who was peppered with
shrapnel, has not been able to.

Carol said: "I am still in a state of shock - we both are. We cannot believe it.
You do not believe something like this will happen to you."

As she continues to process last Friday's horrifying events, one thing is
becoming increasing clear for Carol: Seifeddine Rezgui was not the only Islamic
State gunman involved.

She said: "There was definitely more than one. For the number of people who have
been killed, the timescale and where I got injured, there had to be more than
one. He (Rezgui) could have not have been in all these places at one time."

It is believed Rezgui - who was shot dead by police - had accomplices who helped
him to carry out the atrocity. The Tunisian government said it had made a number
of arrests.

Yesterday, East Lancashire paid tribute to the victims of the Tunisia terror
attack by observing a minute's silence.

Muslims attending mosques, schoolchildren, emergency-services workers and
council staff were among those who paused at noon to reflect on last Friday's
atrocity and remember the 30 British people who were killed in the massacre.

Among the East Lancashire schools observing the minute's silence was Fisher More
Roman Catholic High School in Colne.

Business manager Edwina Yates said: "Our children have a well-developed sense of
respect and what is going on in the world. This was such an appalling event that
it was a natural thing for us to take part in."

Chairman of the Lancashire Council of Mosques, Abdul Hamid Qureshi, said: "Our
prayers do not involve silence but this (the massacre) was made a topic of the
prayers. We all expressed our pain and sorrow. We are all together in this."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 8:43 PM GMT

New York City flooded with cops in Fourth of July Security alert: Seven thousand
officers assigned to potential targets amid a rise in terrorist 'chatter' and
fears of attack by homegrown ISIS extremists

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1570 words



     ·    Extra cops will be placed at landmarks and in crowded places
     ·    New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said  the state remains a 'top target'
     ·    Police commissioner Bill Bratton thanked officers for leaving their
          families
     ·    Comes as authorities across the country have been told to remain
          vigilant
     ·    Los Angeles, Boston and Washington D.C. will also see a bigger
          presence
     ·    FBI has set up commander centers in each of its 56 field offices
     ·    U.S Air Force has cancelled an Independence Day event in the UK
     ·    Officials stress no specific credible threat has been made thus far
     ·    But there are concerns following attacks in France, Kuwait and Tunisia




More than 7,000 police officers will flood the streets of New York City during
the July 4 celebrations has security is ramped up across the country amid
concerns ISIS sympathizers may try and target the event.

The extra cops will be placed at landmarks and in crowded areas as residents
watch the firework displays and attend parties around the city.

The heightened security comes as local authorities across the country have been
told to remain vigilant this Independence Day, while the FBI has also stepped up
its presence.

Intelligence officials have said there is increased 'chatter' on terrorist
networks, prompting fears homegrown extremists may try and stage an attack.

Scroll down for video

The Bureau and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a bulletin to
18,000 law enforcement agencies nationwide to be on alert.

U.S. Park Police Chief Robert MacLean has said: 'Our nation is under threat, our
law enforcement, our military are under threat, so we take the threat
seriously.'

The FBI has set up commander centers in 56 of all its field offices across the
United States to monitor any potential terrorist threats.

In New York, enhanced counter-terrorism measures will be in place in a bid to
avoid an attack.

The state's homeland security department also will increase the staff on
Saturday at its 24-hour Emergency Operations Center and the New York State Watch
Center, which monitors events across the state.

In Boston, undercover cops and tactical units will be on patrol, supported by
helicopters.

Boston police commisioner William Evans tsaid: 'Lone wolf is our worst nightmare
but we have nothing to indicate we have any of that going on.'

In Washington D.C. there will also be a heightened police presence. Nine
security checkpoints will be set up to screen the tens of thousands of visitors
expected for fireworks and festivities on the National Mall.

Coolers, backpacks and packages are subject to inspection, and about 18,000 feet
of chain link fencing will be installed, the National Park Service said.

We are keenly aware that New York State remains a top target for terrorists
Governor Andrew Cuomo

In Los Angeles, the city's Emergency Operations Center has already been
activated as more officers are deployed to the streets.

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo ordered tougher security measures across the
state on Friday.

'We are keenly aware that New York State remains a top target for terrorists,'
Cuomo said in a statement.

'In response to the warning by the federal government, New York State is taking
steps to increase monitoring and communication with our local, state, and
federal emergency management and law enforcement partners through the holiday
weekend.'

NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton released a message to his officers, thanking them
for taking time away from their family celebrations to keep the city safe.

He said: To the civilian and uniformed members of the New York City Police
Department working this Independence Day, thank you.

'Being away from your friends and families today is difficult, but this city's
eight-and-a-half million residents and millions more visitors depend on you.

'After all, the freedoms we celebrate today--those enshrined in the Declaration
of Independence 239 years ago and then in the Constitution we uphold--rest on
the public safety that you provide.

'Our nation was founded on an idea: that the unified chorus of a free people
will never consent to tyranny.

'But Thomas Paine, who was called "the penman of the American Revolution," knew
that the hard-won republic must be maintained. "Those who expect to reap the
blessings of freedom," he counseled, "must undergo the fatigues of supporting
it".'

'By taking the oath you took, you have shouldered a larger share of those
fatigues. We are all fortunate that you did.

'The brave men and women of the NYPD will never tire in protecting everyone's
basic right to pursue their ambitions, free from fear. I'm proud to be with you
in this mission. And we will deliver on our pledge of one city, safe and
fair-everywhere, for everyone.'

Among the cops on patrol will be the 822 rookies who graduated from the Police
Academy Thursday, the New York Daily News reported.

The move comes amid growing fears that the terror group ISIS is working to
awaken sleeper cells in Western nations, after sympathizers were linked to three
back-to-back attacks in France, Kuwait and Tunisia last Friday.

While the FBI says there has been no specific credible threat so far, it seems
to be more active in its warnings and actions ahead of Independence Day this
year than previously.

And some incidents have already sparked concerns among the general public.

Bryan Scott Wolfinger, a 25-year-old sergeant, sparked panic at Cross Creek Mall
in Fayetteville, North Carolina last night when he was allegedly spotted
wandering through the mall armed.

Fayetteville Police have now charged him with 'going armed to the terror of the
public' after it was claimed he had simply arrived to have his photo taken and
posed no threat.

On Thursday an Army soldier was arrested and charged after he was caught walking
through a shopping mall with an assault rifle, ammunition and bulletproof vest.

On the same day there was chaos in Washington D.C. following reports of an
active shooter at a naval yard.

But the threat turned out to be a false alarm.

The U.S. Air Force has already cancelled planned Independence Day celebrations
at a Norfolk RAF base due to the increased risk of a Jihadi terror attack.

The two-day festival was due to be hosted by U.S crew based in RAF Lakenheath
and Mildenhall, home to the 48th Fighter Wing at the nearby RAF Feltwell in
Norfolk.

On Thursday, Daily Mail Online revealed the 30 people who have already been
arrested this year on U.S soil in a crackdown on ISIS sympathizers.

Officials revealed this week that the Islamic terror group has a foothold in all
50 states as it continues to target disaffected Americans through its torrent of
online propaganda and slick videos of barbaric beheadings and mutilations.

The stark warning comes days after ISIS-inspired gunman Saif Rezgui unleashed
horror on at a Tunisian beach resort, killing 39 vacationers and wounding dozens
more.

Some have conspired to travel or send friends abroad to link up with
fundamentalist fighters while others have plotted jihad here in the US - with
Capitol Hill among the targets for a foiled bombing raid.

Gunmen Elton Simpson, 30, and Nadir Soofi, 34, came perilously close on May 4
when they were shot dead while trying to storm a controversial 'Draw Mohammed'
event in Garland, Texas.

ISIS claimed responsibility for the raid but officials suspect the pair were
more likely radicalized over the web.

Another young fanatic, Usaamah Rahim, 26, was killed last month as he lunged at
police with a knife in Boston's Roslindale neighborhood.

He was allegedly plotting to decapitate controversial anti-Islam activist Pamela
Geller, the organizer of the same controversial Texas event.

The deadly incidents are just two from dozens of plots disrupted by police and
federal agents since ISIS began to rise from the flames of the Syrian civil war.



Rep Mike McCaul, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security has
already warned Americans to 'remain vigilant' to terror attacks.

He also said that ISIS was no longer a regionalized threat but a global one.

'I am extremely concerned that Syrian and ISIS recruiters can use the internet
at lightning speeds to recruit followers in the United States, with thousands of
followers in the United States, and then activate them to do whatever they want
to do,' he said, during an appearance on Fox News Sunday.

'Whether it's military installations, law enforcement or possibly a Fourth of
July event parade.'

He added that America's response had been slow in comparison to extremists'
rapid advancement of their internet presence.

Referring to the terror attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait last Friday, he
said: 'In light of the three attacks in three hours on three continents
overseas, (it) shows us that ISIS is not just regionalized like the
administration says, only in Iraq and Syria, but rather demonstrates a global
threat - that they can conduct external operations and they're very savvy doing
that over the internet.'

A gunman opened fire on a beach packed with tourists in Tunisia, killing 38; a
decapitated body was found after an attacker rammed his car into a gas
container, triggering an explosion in France, and a suicide bomber attacker a
Shiite mosque in Kuwait City, killed 27 and injuring 227. There is as yet no
evidence that the attacks were coordinated.

Meanwhile the FBI has issued a warning to local law enforcement officials across
America about a heightened risk of terror attacks targeting Independence Day
celebrations this weekend.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 9:35 PM GMT

ISIS terrorists launch new rocket attack in retaliation against army support;
Israel said three rockets had landed in the south of the country but no one has
been hurt

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


Militants linked to Islamic State have fired rockets into Israel from Eygpt's
Sinai penisula.

The affiliate, which calls itself Sinai Province, said it had acted in
retaliation for what it says is Israeli support for the Egyptian army.

Israel said three rockets landed in the south of the country, causing no
casualties or material damage.

Fighting between Islamist insurgents and Egyptian security forces seen some of
the bloodiest fighting in the region in years over the past week with more than
100 being killed, mostly IS fighters.

Islamic State's Egypt affiliate, Sinai Province, said in a statement posted on
Twitter by supporters that it had launched three Grad rockets toward "occupied
Palestine".

It also said that it will uproot "the state of the Jews" (Israel) and secular
Palestinian movement Fatah, headed by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.

On Tuesday Islamic State militants released a video threatening to turn Gaza
into another "fiefdom", as in parts of Iraq and Syria.

The Israeli military closed a southern highway on Friday night, part of which
runs along the Egyptian border, as a safety precaution.

Israel has accused Hamas , the Islamist group which controls Gaza, of helping
Islamic State in Sinai, an allegation Hamas denies.

Meanwhile Egypt launched air strikes in North Sinai yesterday, killing 12
militants as the Egyptian president visited the province, scene of the bloodiest
fighting in years.

North Sinai has been the epicenter of an insurgency in Egypt where an Islamic
State-affiliated group, Sinai Province, is most active. The Peninsula borders
the Gaza Strip, Israel and the Suez Canal.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 7:53 PM GMT

Tunisia attack shows we must learn the lessons from the 7/7 bombings;
Britain's must think carefully about its response to the Tunisia terror attack
so not to inflame the Muslim community

BYLINE: By John Prescott

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 614 words


As I observed the minute's silence for the Britons who died in Tunisia, I
thought back to July 7, 2005.

We'd just won the Olympics, Tony Blair was having a successful G8 conference in
Gleneagles and we were even gearing up to win the Ashes. The country was on a
roll.

I was chairing the Cabinet when we were told there had been an ­explosion on the
Tube. We were told it was caused by a power surge.

With Tony in Scotland I was in charge of the initial response and convened the
first emergency COBRA meeting (innocently named after the room, Committee
Briefing Room A).

But then we heard a bus had been blown up. Just like 9/11, a perceived accident
turned into a terrorist atrocity.

7/7 bombing

Fifty-two people died at the hands of home-grown suicide bombers, the worst loss
of British lives since the 9/11 attacks.

It became clear their grievance was with our wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. But
it was crucial our response didn't inflame the Muslim community.

We set up seven community-led working groups under the banner of Preventing
Extremism Together (PET) to develop practical ­recommendations for tackling
violent extremism.

Community involvement was vital.

Ten years on, al-Qaeda has been replaced by Islamic State. But this government
has failed to learn the lessons.

The Tunisia gunman crafted his deadly skills at an IS training camp in an
"ungoverned part of Libya".

Ungoverned because Gaddafi had been deposed by Cameron's airstrikes, leading to
a power vacuum and civil war.

We faced the same situation after removing the Taliban and Saddam Hussein.

Because of our interventions, hundreds of thousands now flee these countries to
make their way to the UK.

When will we realise that our military ­involvement in the Middle East only make
matters worse? Cameron even wanted to take us into Syria, which would have led
to us fighting on the same side as IS.

Thankfully Labour, the Lib Dems and rebel Tory MPs stopped Cameron and US
President Obama from turning a desperate regional dispute into a major
­international war.

But now the PM's planned "Full Spectrum Response" could put UK and US airstrikes
in Syria back on the table.

Video: Queen observes one minute silence in Glasgow

And what are we doing to prevent another 2,000 British Muslim men and women
going to Syria to help IS?

The Government has passed a law to compel teachers and lecturers to report
students they suspect might have "extremist views".

Surely ­engagement with the Muslim ­community is far more important than
encouraging teachers to become an army of spies.

This government wants to impose Western values and democracy abroad but seeks to
abolish human rights and snoop on our emails, social media and phone calls at
home.

It also wants to strengthen links with undemocratic Saudi Arabia and the
military ­government of Egypt, which deposed the last elected Prime Minister.

It's no wonder British Muslims who fled to Syria felt more allegiance to IS than
the UK. It's not their parents' fault, it's the Government's policies that help
to radicalise them.

Airstrikes and sending in the SAS cannot guarantee Brits will be safe from IS
attacks on every beach and in every city.

Our continued ­intervention in the Middle East means this Arab Spring has turned
into a long and bloody winter.

This is a regional dispute that requires a regional solution.

We should put more pressure on Israel to commit to recognising Palestine, ending
an injustice which still fans the flames in the Middle East.

From the Crusades to Iraq and Syria, Western intervention never works.

It didn't a thousand years ago and it doesn't now. Until we recognise that,
Britons will never be truly safe in Arab countries - or even on the streets of
the UK.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 4:19 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: President declares 'state of emergency' following hotel
massacre that killed 30 Brits;
Tunisia last declared a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against its
former leader Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


Tunisia has declared a 'state of emergency' after a gunman massacred 30 British
tourists on a popular holiday resort.

The announcement was made today by the office of President Beji Caid Essebsi
after armed police officers were deployed on beaches and outside hotels across
Sousse.

The president will formally address the nation later today, following
yesterday's solemn ceremony on the beach.

A state of emergency has not been declared in the country for four years, when
there was an uprising against its then-leader Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali.

The June 26 attack claimed the lives of 38 people, with an emotional minute's
silence being held across the UK yesterday in solidarity with the service being
held at the site of the massacre.

Investigators probing the attack have now arrested the girlfriend of gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui.

As part of a large-scale operation, security services held the unnamed
university student fearing she may have helped plan the massacre.

It is thought the ISIS-trained gunman may have been with her at his home in the
university town of Kairouan, where he was part of a terror cell.

The following day he made the 35-mile trip to the Imperial Marhaba Hotel with an
AK-47 assault rifle, to murder tourists as they lay on their sun loungers.

His girlfriend has denied having any knowledge of the terror plot however.

Detectives have also arrested a taxi driver who they believe ferried Rezgui to
the spot where he gunned down the tourists.

An analysis of the gunman's Samsung Galaxy - fished out the water after he
hurled it into the sea - shows he made a string of calls to the driver before
launching his attack.

It came as an inquest was told detectives had interviewed 275 Tunisian tourists
who witnessed the 38 holidaymakers being gunned down on their sunbeds.

More than 1,000 witnesses were on the beach when Rezgui, 28, went on a 47-minute
rampage.

Minute's silence in memory of 30 British victims who passed away during the
Tunisia terror attack

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 1:26 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Terror cops arrest Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui's
girlfriend in probe of extremist's final hours;
As part of a large-scale operation, security services held the unnamed
university student fearing she may have helped plan the massacre

BYLINE: By Jo Kelly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1173 words


Terror cops have arrested the girlfriend of Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui as
officers probe the extremist's final hours.

As part of a large-scale operation, security services held the unnamed
university student fearing she may have helped plan the massacre.

Detectives investigating the slaughter of 38 holidaymakers in the beach resort
of Sousse will now seek to determine if Rezgui spent his last night with his
partner.

It is thought the Islamic State-trained gunman may have been with her at his
home in the university town of Kairouan, where he was part of a terror cell.

The following day he made the 35-mile trip to the Imperial Marhaba Hotel with an
AK-47 assault rifle, to murder tourists as they lay on their sun loungers.

Yesterday his girlfriend denied having any knowledge of the terror plot,
according to Tunisian newspaper Assarih.

Detectives have also arrested a taxi driver who they believe ferried Rezgui to
the spot where he gunned down 30 Brits.

An analysis of the gunman's Samsung Galaxy - fished out the water after he
hurled it into the sea - show he made a string of calls to the driver before
launching his attack.

It came as an inquest was told detectives had interviewed 275 Tunisian tourists
who witnessed the 38 holidaymakers being gunned down on their sunbeds.

More than 1,000 witnesses were on the beach when Seifeddine Rezgui, 28, went on
a 47-minute rampage.

During a brief hearing at West London Coroners' Court, an inquest was told
Stephen Mellor, 59, died of gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen.

The Cornish engineer, who worked in Bodmin, died protecting his wife Cheryl from
the murderous IS-linked gunman.

His body was identified from fingerprints and dental records, and was due to be
released to his family. Senior Coroner for West London, Chinyere Inyama, began
the first in a long sequence of inquests into the atrocity just hours before the
nation fell silent to remember the 30 British dead.

Outside, police guarded a large facility for receiving the bodies of the
victims.

The coroner said: "This morning we are here to open the inquest touching on the
death of Stephen Mellor, a British national born on 15 March, 1956."

Det Supt David Batt, a counter-terrorism officer, told the court that "tourists
were indiscriminately targeted and shot by the gunman".

He said: "The gunman was later shot and killed by security services in a nearby
street.

"Thirty of the deceased are believed to be British. There are currently in
excess of 1,200 potential witness who have returned to the UK.

"Accounts are being taken from those who are deemed significant - the number
currently is in excess of 275."

Det Supt Batt said that post-mortems had been undertaken in Tunis and the UK.
"The cause of death has been recorded as gunshot wounds to chest and abdomen,"
he said.

The coroner adjourned the inquest until a date yet to be fixed, pending the
completion of Tunisian and British investigations into the killings.

Eight suspects accused of involvement in the Islamic State-backed plot remain in
custody in Tunisia.

A Tunisian Salafist leader sparked outrage after blaming "sinful" tourists for
the recent onslaught of extremist attacks.

Speaking on Tunisia Live, Preacher Adel Almi criticised the country's tourism
industry and said that the "doomed" sector was responsible for spreading
"alcohol, pre-marital relations, profanities" across Tunisian society.

"We cannot accept these vices as Tunisia is a home for all of us and if a sinful
deed happens here, whether by tourists or Tunisians , all other Tunisians will
become infected by societal and intellectual diseases." he said.

The tourism sector makes up seven per cent of the Tunisian economy and up to two
million Tunisians depend on the struggling industry to stay alive.

Almi, who heads the radical "Zitouna" party, also believes that tourists
themselves are to blame for violent attacks such as the one carried out by
Rezgui last week.

"These sinful diseases will lead to radical and violent reactions," he said.

"The moderate and well-balanced Muslim Tunisian will loath the tourists' immoral
deeds and may choose to fight them intellectually.

"But for vulnerable and highly zealous Tunisian, their reaction will be
unpredictable and they could be used by ISIS.

"Under Ben Ali's regime,tourism helped the government to earn millions, but it
resulted in many moral losses as Tunisians copied the tourists' conduct and
behaviour.

"Tourists have stripped Tunisians of their dignity by treating them as their
servants and paying them little money," he added.

Despite an exodus of more than 10,000 Brits since the massacre last week, scores
of tourists have opted to stay in Tunisia.

Survivor Sally Groome described how she decided to stay in Sousse to finish
their holiday as an act of defiance against the terrorists.

Sally, who arrived home on Wednesday, vowed to "stand to attention" and remember
those who were not as fortunate as herself.

She said: "We were going to come back on Saturday but then thought we couldn't
let the terrorists win. So we and another two couples we had got friendly with
decided to see it out.

"How can you give in to these hideous, moronic, small minded, brainwashed
monsters? It could so easily have been us on that beach.

"But it was strange. I was the only one in the pool most of the time. And there
were about a dozen people dotted around. We did not have anything to eat until
over 24 hours after the attack. None of us could stomach food.

"I love swimming in the sea. I used to swim for the county. But by some quirk of
fate we decided to remain by the pool that day, as we had not long arrived."

Sally added: "I will have the TV on at midday and stand to attention, if that
does not sound a bit silly. I just want to think about those poor souls who did
not come back, and what their families must be going through."

Like many others, she also praised the Tunisians for their reaction to the
appalling atrocity.

She said: "They are the kindest, most warm hearted, generous people you could
meet, both the hotel staff and the locals. They love the British, and could not
do enough for us. They were absolutely fabulous."

Sally, 46, was alongside her friend Heidi Byrne, a 42 year old bar manager, when
the rampage started.

She said: "I had stayed at the Imperial Marhaba three years earlier. We loved
Tunisia so much we decided to return.

"I had already been for a swim and was on the sun bed eating an apple when all
these people began coming towards us saying 'run for your lives'. It was the
scariest thing I have ever experienced.

"We fled into reception and my heart was beating out of my chest. We were then
told to go to our rooms. We used the stairs, not the lift, and stayed on the
balcony until it was all over. There was army, ambulances, emergency vehicles, a
helicopter flying overhead.

"But I never saw the gunman, or heard any shots. The public speaker by the pool
had been blaring out music which drowned out the gunfire. The first we knew of
anything was when all the people came running in telling us to get out of the
way."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

firms 'cashing in on terror';
Furious families accuse holiday companies of inflating prices ; FAMILIES last
night accused holiday firms of cashing in on the Tunisia terror attacks. ;
Families forced to pay extra to switch holidays from Tunisia

BYLINE: Sean Poulter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 848 words


Customers booked to travel to the country are being allowed to switch to other
destinations - if they pay more.

And not only is the choice limited but prices are sky-high - up to £1,000 extra.

The Facebook pages of both Thomson and Thomas Cook have been inundated with
complaints. As anger grew, it emerged that: ? Anyone booked for Tunisia after
July 9 with Thomson, and July 12 with Thomas Cook, is being denied a refund; ?
More than a million people are scrabbling for replacement trips; ? Holiday
prices on travel websites rose by the minute before selling out; ? Only low
standard or costly accommodation remained available.

Tour operators have been putting on additional flights and holidays to
destinations such as the Balearics, Bulgaria and Cyprus, but this is not enough
to match demand.

Abigail Griffin from Somerset had to pay an extra £382 with Thomson after
switching from Tunisia to Greece.

She said: 'It seems to me that the holiday companies are making money out of the
fact families are having to rebook their holidays. I think it is disgusting.

'All the people who were planning to go to Turn to Page 4 Continued from Page
One Tunisia and are now trying to rebook have a very limited choice because they
are restricted by the dates of the school holidays.

'The holidays that are available are going up in price by the second or they are
already sold out. I was shocked at what I saw. It looks like the holiday
companies are taking advantage of the situation.

'It is clear to me that if I had waited another five minutes, I would have had
to pay another £700 on top of the extra £382 that I am already being charged.'
In January Mrs Griffin paid £2,990 for a twoweek holiday beginning on August 5
at the 5 star Riu Hotel in Sousse for herself, husband Matthew and daughter
Millie, aged seven.

Following the terror outrage she repeatedly contacted the company to ask if she
could change the booking or get a refund.

Initially, Thomson would only allow customers who were due to fly out in July to
change their holiday, but it then extended the cut-off date to October.

Mrs Griffin, 40, found an alternative holiday on the Greek island of Kos in a
Thomson owned holiday village.

The accommodation is of a lower standard than in Tunisia, but the family is
having to pay an extra £382 for their August break, taking the total up to
£3,372.

Mrs Griffin added: 'We were boxed into a corner, we had to take the holiday on
certain dates and we had to go with Thomson. Unless I accepted the deal, I would
lose a holiday and all my money.' Arlene Simeon Young, from Coatbridge in
Lanarkshire, said: 'I was told after attacks a few months back that (Tunisia)
would not be the safest place now and Thomas Cook charged me £300 to change
destination.

'I would have been in Sousse 14th to 28th June, if I hadn't changed! Now Turkey
is on high alert and that's where I changed to for September. I've paid £630 of
my holiday and told I won't get it back.

'My 12-year-old is refusing to travel and I'm not willing to put my family at
risk going abroad. Not been away for 15 years.' Thomas Cook has been hit with a
raft of similar complaints on its Facebook page.

Patricia McCormick, from Glasgow, said on the page: 'I was in Marhaba (a hotel
in Sousse) on the day of the attack and am booked to go back with you on the
26th of October to the hotel next door.

'I do not want to go back on holiday at all, are you making any exceptions for
this kind of circumstance? I just don't want to go anywhere.' She was told she
could not cancel, but only change, her holiday.

Elizabeth Matthews Gardiner, from Bellshill in Lanarkshire, said: 'We did have
to pay £180 as we changed to go to Ibiza and it was running out... we got
Tunisia cheaper so please watch out as other destinations are putting their
prices up.' Kelly Louise Pritchard wrote: 'So far we have had no luck in
changing our holiday due to holidays not actually being available or the price
rocketing another £1,000 on top of what we have already paid. It is absolutely
ridiculous.' Sarah Young complained: 'Absolutely disgusting.

'You are clearly profiting front this terrible act of terrorism!

Shame on you! I will certainly never use you again!' The holiday firms pointed
out that Tunisia was a comparatively cheap destination, so holidays elsewhere
would often be more costly.

Thomson, which also includes the First Choice brand, said it was doing all it
could to help families who need to change their holidays.

It said: 'We will continue to do our best to offer suitable alternatives as
close as possible to the value-for-money option that holidays to Tunisia
typically represent, but appreciate our customers' understanding that a number
of other popular holiday destinations are more expensive.' It said that it was
allowing families to transfer bookings to this winter or next summer.

Thomas Cook said: 'We are helping customers to rebook their holidays by offering
extra capacity and adding more flights to a selection of popular holiday
destinations.

'We have not increased our prices. However, prices do differ according to
different destinations.'

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

'SHOW OF RESPECT' FOR TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 127  words


A MINUTE'S silence has been held across the UK to remember the 38 people -
including 30 Britons - killed in the Tunisia beach last Friday.

The Queen and Prime Minister David Cameron joined the silence, along with the
families of the bereaved.

Tourists and Tunisians gathered in Sousse, where they linked arms to show their
respects.

Inquests into the deaths of the Britons are under way, while the bodies of more
victims have arrived in the UK.

Businesses, sporting events and places of worship pausing to mark the moment the
killings took place at noon.

Tears were shed as hundreds of employees observed the silence at the head office
of the travel company whose customers made up the toll of British dead, while
flags were flown at half mast on many official buildings.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Sunderland Echo

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

Tunisia survivors remember terror attack victims

LENGTH: 241  words


Sunderland fell silent yesterday as the victims of the Tunisian terror attack
were remembered.

Across the city, people observed a minute's silence as a mark of respect for the
38 people killed in the holiday resort of Sousse last week.

Staff and shoppers in the Bridges were among those who stood silent at midday to
remember the victims, including 30 Britons, who died when Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire.

"Everyone across the country is still reeling from the horror of this attack,"
said Andy Bradley, centre director at The Bridges.

"And all we can do is come together and observe a minute's silence for those who
lost their lives in this terrible tragedy.

"Our hearts go out to all the victims and their families and we hope that it
will be some small comfort that everyone across the UK will be remembering
them."

There was a poignant moment for one Peterlee family caught up in the attack as
they observed the minute's silence back home in their garden.

Andrea Scott, 43, was joined by her son Jonny, 15, daughter Becky 17, and
Becky's boyfriend Owen Lucas, 18.

The family hid in their bathroom in the Bellevue Park hotel for five hours to
escape the gunman. after running for their lives when they heard shots fired.

Elsewhere, The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh observed the silence as they
visited the University of Strathclyde's Technology and Innovation Centre.

Prime Minister David Cameron marked the moment in his Oxfordshire constituency.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPSE


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 9:12 PM GMT

How Britain and the EU allowed jihadists to wage war on their own tourists;
The West cheered the Arab Spring and overthrew Gaddafi, but it did little to
stop weapons and jihadists flooding across North Africa. The Tunisian terror
attack was an inevitable blow-back on defenceless and unprepared British
citizens.

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Middle East Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 980 words


If the attack on British tourists, many of them elderly, lying on Tunisian beach
sun-loungers had been an unexpected jolt from the blue, it would have been
shocking enough.

How much more shocking, then, to know that Britain and its European allies have
watched jihad lap the shores of its southern neighbours and done nothing to stop
it, and little to warn its citizens travelling there of what was happening?

The European Union - and in particular France - is Tunisia's closest ally and
trading partner. The EU has rightly hailed the Arab state's successful political
transition to a democratic model following its overthrow of President Zine
el-Abedine Ben Ali four years ago.

But other than that, it has stood by as the deeply troubling security
consequences of this startling event, the launchpad for the Arab Spring,
unfolded. For more than two years, a jihadist group called Ansar al-Sharia, run
by an high-ranking associate of Osama Bin Laden who had lived for several years
in London, mobilised and recruited without being touched.

Seifallah Ben Hassine - who may, coincidentally, have been killed in a US air
strike in Libya last month - was not unknown to the authorities. Indeed, they
released him from prison in an amnesty in March 2011, two months after the
revolution.

Offering social services to the poor and inspiring videos to the religious,
Ansar al-Sharia denied its clear links to al-Qaeda made it a terrorist
organisation, even after Ben Hassine and his followers stormed the US embassy in
Tunis in September 2012.

From the embassy they moved on to a nearby mosque, from where Ben Hassine gave a
sermon and then disappeared, drifting with his family through the police lines
supposedly surrounding the place.

The case of Ansar al-Sharia in Tunisia - mirrored almost exactly in Libya at the
same time - is a study in the ambiguity of radical political Islam, one with
which the West has still to grapple fully.

Ben Hassine, as he addressed followers in 2012, explicitly ruled out violent
jihad inside Tunisia. "Tunisia is not a land of jihad," he said then. "We have
not taken up arms against the people and our radical speeches are directed
against the government, which does not govern according to God's law."

This appears to have been enough to prevent Ansar's being listed as a terrorist
organisation - something that did not happen until August 2013, after the
murders of two secular, leftist MPs. In this, it was helped by a close and
ambiguous relationship with Ennahda, the Muslim Brotherhood-style party that was
the leading member of the coalition government.

Ennahda's leader, Rached Ghannouchi, had also spent many years in London, and
became the best-known moderate face of Islam, insisting on its democratic
credentials and, eventually, handing over power after a defeat at the polls.

But members of both organisations had been in Tunisian prisons together, and
they discussed co-operation at a time when Ennahda led the government and
provided the nation's prime minister.

Ennahda has since admitted that was a mistaken judgement, but by then it was too
late. Ansar's proselytising - though the exact routes to radicalisation are
murky - helped in the recruitment of thousands of Tunisians for jihad in Syria,
where they are the biggest single foreign force in Islamic State of Iraq and the
Levant.

Meanwhile, its followers began crossing the border into Libya, where exactly the
same tolerance of Ansar's local cousin had led to the open creation of training
camps for Islamist fighters of all stripes within a few miles of major cities
like Tripoli, Derna and - near the Tunisian border - Sabratha.

This is where Seifeddine Rezgui, the El-Kantaoui shooter, went twice in the last
year, along with the men who attacked the Bardo Museum in March.  There was no
shortage of weapons in these camps. Whole arsenals of small arms, surface-to-air
(SAM) missiles, semtex and other explosives and landmines disappeared from under
the noses of the allies, led by Britain and France, who won Libya's civil war in
2011.

The SAS was there; so were the Americans and French and a whole cast of monitors
and weapons experts. But they seem to have concentrated on tracing the SAMs, as
murky figures with lorries drove off the rest of the loot into the desert -
despite warnings.

Those weapons have now turned up in everywhere from west Africa to Gaza. What is
particularly dispiriting is that they are in the hands not just of al-Qaeda -
although they certainly are - but in the full range of Islamist militias.

Ben Hassine eventually disappeared; he had not been heard of for months before a
report emerged on local radio on Thursday that he had been hit by an American
strike in Libya meant for another North African jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar,
the "one-eyed sheikh" who led the 2013 attack on the In Amenas gas refinery in
southern Algeria.

By then, Ansar had, in line with international jihad, split into al-Qaeda and
Isil wings. With little clear ideology other than extreme violence, Isil perhaps
no longer needed the "guidance" of an "old hand" like Ben Hassine.

Instead it had its new, young, violent recruits to speak for it. One popped up
in April in Dabiq, Isil's English-language magazine, being in interviewed in
Syria, where he had fled after being identified as the killer of one of the
Tunisian MPs killed in 2013.

He described his role in that attack, and described the group's Tunisian
training camp. He also expounded on the message of the Bardo attack for
westerners.

"Through operations like this, terror enters the hearts of Allah's enemies," he
said, pointing out that being next to the Tunisian parliament the museum was one
of the country's best-guarded places. "Insha'allah, the brothers there will
follow this path. They should be certain that operations like this are not
impossible."

That, it turned out, was an understatement.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 9:07 PM GMT

Tunisia sacks governor and police over terror attacks;
Tunisia terror attack aftermath sees Governor of Sousse and five police officers
dismissed as the country declares a state of emergency

BYLINE: By Nicola Harley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Police officers and who officials behind "failures" in the monitoring and
response to the terrorist who killed 30 British tourists in Tunisia have been
sacked.

The governor of Sousse and at least five police officers have been dismissed by
the Tunisian government following the tragedy which killed 38 tourists.

The final bodies of the UK victims were flown home on Saturday.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who was himself shot dead by police after his deadly
rampage, shot the tourists as they lay on beaches in the resort of Sousse.

It took more than 45 minutes to stop Rezgui.

The Tunisian prime minister's communications adviser Dhafer Neji said: "Just as
there have been security failures, there have also been political failures."

He said those fired included the governor of the Sousse region where the June 26
attack took place, as well as police officials.

Among the policemen dismissed were three from Sousse, one from Gaafour, the home
city in the northwest of the jihadist who carried out the attack in Port El
Kantaoui, and one from Kairouan where Rezgui was studying.

Interior ministry spokesman Mohamed Ali Aroui confirmed that "several (police)
officials have been dismissed at Sousse and Kerouan," including the chief of the
Sousse region.

The security forces were criticised after the attack for not reacting quickly
enough, after witnesses said at least 30 minutes elapsed before police arrived.

On Friday, the authorities admitted for the first time that there had been
security failures, with Prime Minister Habib Essid saying: "The time of the
reaction - this is the problem."

Tunisia's president declared a state of emergency on Saturday.

President Beji Caid Essebsi said that an "exceptional situation required
exceptional measures".

Mr Essebsi, however, pledged to respect freedom of expression.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety," he said. "As we see in other countries, if
attacks like Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

Mr Essebsi blamed the poor security in Libya for Tunisia's problems, and the
lack of international resolve in targeting the Islamic State group throughout
the region.

On Friday Britain held a minute's silence across the country to remember the
victims of the previous week's terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 7:12 PM GMT

Tunisia declares a state of emergency;
Tunisia has declared a state of emergency a week after the Sousse terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Tunisia 's president has declared a state of emergency, a week after the
terrorist attack in Sousse which killed 38 foreign tourists - most of them
Britons.

President Beji Caid Essebsi made the announcement on Saturday, saying that an
"exceptional situation required exceptional measures."

It was not immediately clear why he made the declaration now - whether it was in
response to a specific threat, or just on the recommendation of his advisors. A
state of emergency temporarily gives the government more flexibility and the
army and police more authority, and restricts the right of public assembly.

Mr Essebsi, however, pledged to respect freedom of expression.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety," he said. "As we see in other countries, if
attacks like Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

Mr Essebsi blamed the poor security in Libya for Tunisia's problems, and the
lack of international resolve in targeting the Islamic State group throughout
the region. He said Tunisia specifically had been a target of the extremist
group because it had a functioning, secular democracy.

The attack on the Sousse beach resort last Friday followed a gun attack on the
Bardo museum in Tunis in March - two of the worst militant assaults in Tunisia's
modern history, and a pressing threat to its vital tourist industry.

Tunisian officials say all three gunmen in those two attacks had been trained at
the same time, over the border in jihadist camps in Libya, where a conflict
between two rival governments has allowed Islamist militant groups to gain
ground.

Tunisia last had a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against autocrat
Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali.

· Funeral held for British Tunisia victim

On Friday Britain held a minute's silence across the country to remember the
victims of the previous week's terrorist attack. On Saturday the final five
bodies of the murdered Britons arrived at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, in an
RAF C-17 aircraft.

Thirty Britons were among 38 victims killed by Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened
fire in the resort of Sousse at around 11.15am on Friday June 26.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 5:52 PM GMT

Tunisia declares a state of emergency;
Tunisia has declared a state of emergency a week after the Sousse terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Tunisia 's president has declared a state of emergency, a week after the
terrorist attack in Sousse which killed 38 foreign tourists - most of them
Britons.

President Beji Caid Essebsi made the announcement on Saturday.

It was not immediately clear why he made the declaration now - whether it was in
response to a specific threat, or just on the recommendation of his advisors. A
state of emergency temporarily gives the government more flexibility and the
army and police more authority, and restricts the right of public assembly.

He is due to give a press conference later this afternoon.

Tunisia last had a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against autocrat
Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali.

· Funeral held for British Tunisia victim

On Friday Britain held a minute's silence across the country to remember the
victims of the previous week's terrorist attack. On Saturday the final five
bodies of the murdered Britons arrived at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, in an
RAF C-17 aircraft.

Thirty Britons were among 38 victims killed by Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened
fire in the resort of Sousse at around 11.15am on Friday June 26.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 4, 2015 Saturday 4:28 PM GMT

Tunisia declares a state of emergency;
Tunisia has declared a state of emergency a week after the Sousse terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 189 words


Tunisia 's president has declared a state of emergency, a week after the
terrorist attack in Sousse which killed 38 foreign tourists - most of them
Britons.

President Beji Caid Essebsi made the announcement on Saturday.

It was not immediately clear why he made the declaration now - whether it was in
response to a specific threat, or just on the recommendation of his advisors. A
state of emergency temporarily gives the government more flexibility and the
army and police more authority, and restricts the right of public assembly.

He is due to give a press conference later this afternoon.

Tunisia last had a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against autocrat
Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali.

On Friday Britain held a minute's silence across the country to remember the
victims of the previous week's terrorist attack. On Saturday the final five
bodies of the murdered Britons arrived at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, in an
RAF C-17 aircraft.

Thirty Britons were among 38 victims killed by Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened
fire in the resort of Sousse at around 11.15am on Friday June 26.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday

Permanent memorial to Tunisian terrorist attack victims revealed by Prime
Minister

BYLINE: Neil Vowles

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 268 words


THE Prime Minister has announced that a permanent memorial for the 30 British
victims of the Tunisia terror attack is to be created.

David Cameron has announced that plans for a memorial to the victims of the
deadliest terrorist attack on Britons since 7/7 will be developed over the
upcoming months.

Victims of the attack on Friday June 26 includes John and Janet Stocker whose
Crawley family launched an online campaign for information in the wake of the
attack.

Over the coming months, bereaved relatives of the holidaymakers killed by a lone
gunman in the Tunisian resort of Sousse will be consulted on the memorial's
location and design.

National newspaper reports have suggested that the memorial will be based in the
north of England where the majority of victims lived.

Foreign office minister Tobias Ellwood, whose brother was killed in the 2002
Bali bombing, has been appointed by the Prime Minister to meet with relatives
and discuss suitable locations for the memorial.

A second site of remembrance will be established for all British nationals who
have been killed in atrocities overseas.

Both memorials will be funded through fines levied on banks by the Financial
Conduct Authority.

A remembrance service for the victims will be held in the autumn.

Mr Cameron said: "It is right that we mark and commemorate them and others
murdered by terrorists overseas appropriately, and support the loved ones they
have left behind in every way we can."

The RAF has now completed their operation to repatriate the dead from Tunisia
with the final five bodies returned to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire over the
weekend.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Bexhill Observer

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday

COUNTY NEWS: Permanent memorial for Britons killed in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 269  words


The Prime Minister has announced a permanent memorial for the 30 British victims
of the Tunisia terror attack is to be created.

PM David Cameron said the government would fund two permanent memorials to UK
victims of terror.

One will honour those who died in the Tunisia beach attack, and a second
memorial will commemorate Britons killed in other terror attacks overseas.

The bereaved families of the 30 British holidaymakers killed by a lone gunman in
Sousse will be consulted on where their memorial will be.

A service will also be held in the autumn, dedicated to those caught up in the
attack which killed 38.

On Saturday, the final five bodies of British victims were returned to the UK.

Mr Cameron said: "Those who lost their lives in Tunisia last week were innocent
victims of a brutal terrorist atrocity.

"It is right that we mark and commemorate them and others murdered by terrorists
overseas appropriately and support the loved ones they have left behind in every
way we can."

People across the country observed a minute's silence on Friday to pay their
respects to those killed in the atrocity.

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage

2) Like our Facebook page

3) Follow us on Twitter

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

Always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPBO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 2:18 PM GMT

Dundee striker Kane Hemmings: My best friend lost his mum in Tunisia terror
attack.. it puts all football worries into perspective;
THE mother of Hemmings' best friend since childhood, Conor Fulford, was
tragically killed in the Tunisian attack and the two have been united in grief
over news that put the game they both love firmly in perspective.

BYLINE: By Scott McDermott

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,FOOTBALL NEWS

LENGTH: 1032 words


AS kids they were practically joined at the hip. Best pals, Tamworth team-mates
- bonded by the same hopes and aspirations.

Last week, Kane Hemmings was again there for Conor Fulford, at his time of
greatest need.

This time the friends were united in grief as they came to terms with news that
put the game they both love firmly in perspective.

Fulford's mum Sue Davey was one of 30 British holidaymakers gunned down and
killed by a terrorist on a Tunisian beach.

Her boyfriend Scott Chalkley was also tragically killed in the Sousse atrocity.

After the mass shooting on June 26, Fulford engaged the world's press and social
media in a frantic search for information on what had happened to Sue.

He had been convinced television footage had captured pictures of her alive but
injured lying on a hospital trolley.

But last Sunday his and Hemmings' worst fears were realised, when she was
confirmed as one of the dead.

Fulford returned from the USA where he works as a football coach last week - in
time to receive his mother's body.

She was one of nine British dead who were repatriated to England on Friday.

Hemmings should be full of excitement ahead of the new SPFL season after signing
for Dundee from Barnsley this summer.

But, having spent a large chunk of his childhood with the Fulford family,
Hemmings is still in a state of shock.

Conor's dad Daren was their coach at Tamworth FC when they were just 12. He was
a father figure to Hemmings.

Sue was also a source of support to him as a teenager and that's why the
frontman has been left devastated by the Tunisia tragedy.

Hemmings will speak to his stricken mate this week. And later this season he
will invite Conor and his dad to make the trip to Tayside to see him in action.

He hopes to be a key player for Paul Hartley's side in the Premiership this term
but as he reflected on a difficult week, the 23-year-old said: "It's been tough
after what happened to Conor.

"It's not nice when your best friend loses his mum. It puts a lot of things in
perspective and I'm absolutely devastated for him. When I signed for Tamworth at
12 years old, Conor was playing there and his dad was the manager.

"My own dad has never been part of my life and Daren took on that role for me.

"Conor has been my best mate ever since. In fact, he's more like a brother to
me.

"His mum, Sue, was a special woman, a really lovely lady. So it's heartbreaking
for the family.

"In the circumstances, Conor did brilliantly in terms of trying to get
information on what happened to his mum in Tunisia.

"I think she would have been proud of him. In that situation, he couldn't have
done any more.

"He didn't know what was going on over there but he did his utmost, through
social media, to find out.

"I've got so much respect for him, in terms of how he dealt with that situation.

"He was trying desperately to get any sort of news at what must have been a
horrendous time for him and the family.

"Conor's a brilliant boy and I love him to bits. He was living in Boston but I
think he's back for good now.

"It must have been horrible for him, to be living over there and to get that
news.

"I can't even imagine what he must have gone through. I'm giving him a bit of
space just now because he needs grieving time.

"But I'll have a good chat with him in the next few days.

"His dad had been on at me to come up for a few Dundee games and I think Conor
would like that too. Hopefully I can get them up here soon."

Hemmings had returned to England a year ago to sign for Barnsley after a
successful spell at Cowdenbeath.

He'd been plagued by injuries as a kid at Rangers but his stint at Central Park
under Jimmy Nicholl reignited his career. After a frustrating spell at Oakwell,
the 23-year-old striker is now keen to make his mark with the Dark Blues.

He said: "I was a little bit disappointed with how it turned out at Barnsley. I
didn't score the amount of goals I wanted to.

"At the same time, I enjoyed the experience and it was a good learning curve for
me.

"Maybe at certain times, I could have been given more of a run in the team from
the start. I needed a chance to show what I could do.

"But I know within myself that there were games in which I didn't perform to my
best.

"I missed a few chances and it didn't happen for me.

"I can't complain too much. I'm just happy that I've been given another
opportunity to come up the road and score goals in Scotland again.

"I did well at Cowdenbeath but I wanted to kick on after that at a higher level.

"That's why I'm slightly annoyed things didn't work out the way I'd have liked
at Barnsley.

"But I've got another chance at Dundee and I have to take it.

"The gaffer here has been great with me, he's given me a lot of confidence.

"He's tried to sign me a couple of times before so I was keen to come here and
work  for him.

"When I was at Cowden, I spoke to him, so he's always been interested in me.

"It's nice to feel wanted by someone.

"That's why the deal was done so quickly and I want to repay the faith he's
shown in me."

Hitman Hemmings was tipped for stardom at Ibrox but injury and a lack of
opportunity curtailed his career there.

He refuses to take anything for granted but the Englishman insists if he's given
chances at Dundee, he'll hit the back of the net.

And Hemmings believes he's still young enough to go and play at an even higher
level in the future.

He said: "At Rangers, I had a lot of injuries and it didn't work out for me.

"But I think if I'd stayed there I wouldn't be in this position now. I wouldn't
have scored 19 goals in 31 matches like I did for Cowdenbeath and earn a move. I
might have sat on the bench for another year.

"Rangers are a massive club and, of course, I'd loved to have played more.

"But it wasn't meant to be and I certainly don't look back on my time at Ibrox
with any regrets.

"I won't set myself targets at Dundee either.

"I just want to play games and if I do that, I know I'll score goals.

"I want to score as many as possible but I won't put a number on it.

"We have a lot of competition for places up front which is good for the club.

"People seem to think I'm a year older but I've only just turned 23. I'm still
young and still have the best years of my career in front of me."

Quick Quiz: Sport 03/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 11:05 AM GMT

Is this the SECOND gunman involved in Tunisia beach terror attack?;
EYEWITNESS Jim Stevenson gives British anti-terror officers description of
another terrorist involved in beach massacre.

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 935 words


AN eyewitness image of a second gunman involved in the Tunisian beach ­massacre
is revealed by the Sunday Mail today.

The Kalashnikov-wielding ­terrorist in a light grey T-shirt and darker coloured
camouflage-style shorts was seen shooting at ­holidaymakers at point-blank range
in the carnage in Sousse.

UK-based anti-terror officers are working from the descrption given to them by
Scots holidaymaker Jim Stevenson.

He has told them he is "certain" the clean shaven man with thick black hair he
saw murder a female tourist by the pool at the Imperial Marhaba hotel was not
Seifeddine Rezgui.

His testimony supports the theory being probed by police that there were three
gunmen involved in the massacre of 38 people, including 30 Brits.

Jim said the ­gunman "turned and shot an older lady who was ­coming down the
stairs and she fell down dead".

He added: "I saw reports afterwards of a lone attacker and it didn't add up.

"There was the guy in black, who was killed. From the reports, he was shooting
people on the beach.

"There was a guy we saw who had dark, possibly ­camouflage-style shorts who was
shooting around the pool area.

"I also spoke to people who saw a man throw a ­grenade and they spoke of someone
wearing red shorts. From this, it appears there were three involved in the
attack."

Our impression by highly respected court artist Priscilla ­Coleman depicts the
terrorist as seen by Jim.

Other accounts have included a description of the third gunman seen firing - the
man in red shorts at the back of the hotel.

Jim, from Glasgow's south side, was on holiday with wife Karen, 49, son
Mitchell, 16, and Karen's mum Nessie, 85.

He said: "I'm as sure as I can be that there were two, and possibly three,
involved.

"My son and I saw the one who had on grey shorts and a grey T-shirt. He was
carrying a ­Kalashnikov.

"We saw the photographs of Rezgui afterwards - and he ­definitely wasn't the
person we saw.

"Rezgui had on black clothing - the man we saw did not."

We told last week how Jim ­witnessed a gunman turn and shoot a woman who was
coming downstairs at the hotel.

He and his family were among hundreds of British tourists who managed to get a
plane back to the UK in the early hours of last Saturday.

Jim was interviewed by police at Manchester Airport and gave a description of
the gunman he and his son saw.

Islamic State claimed ­responsibility for the attack on ­Friday, June 26, in
which three Irish nationals, two Germans, one ­Belgian, one Portuguese and one
Russian were also killed.

Several British witnesses back claims Rezgui, 23, was not the only gunman.

The IS fanatic was filmed cutting innocent holidaymakers down with a Kalashnikov
rifle while dressed in black shorts and T-shirt.

But two former UK police officers told how they too saw the third ­gunman.

Steve Johnson, 65, said he and fellow ex-policeman Michael Perry, 66, spotted
the gunman who was not Rezgui.

Survivor Kirsty Murray said she was hit in the leg by a man with a pistol who
she is also convinced was not Rezgui.

Kirsty was at the Imperial Marhaba pool with fiance Radley ­ Ruszkiewicz, 29.
Kirsty, 25, of Braintree, Essex, was hit by shrapnel when a grenade exploded as
they fled.

Surgeon Abdelmajid Mselmi - who operated on the wounded - said he found
different types of injuries, supporting claims that there was more than one
killer.

There has been no official ­confirmation from Tunisian authorities that more
than one attacker was involved.

Two "dangerous terrorists" police believe assisted Rezgui are also on the run.

Photos of Mohamed bin ­Abdallah, 24, and 28-year-old Rafikhe Tayari were posted
on the internet in a bid to trace them.

Security sources say Rezgui is believed to have had ­several ­accomplices. UK
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon has vowed they would be "tracked down".

A woman is among eight people arrested by Tunisian police over "direct links" to
the atrocity. Four more have been detained for ­indirect links.

Two other suspects, believed to be in Libya, are being hunted.

British and local officers have been quizzing survivors as they probe the
possibility there were several attackers.

A team of 600 Scotland Yard police have interviewed tourists who have returned
home. Results from a post mortem revealed that Rezgui, who laughed as he shot
holidaymakers, was high on drugs at the time.

Tunisia beach massacre victims flown back to UK

A Met police spokesman said yesterday: "Hundreds of UK ­counter terrorism
officers are ­continuing to support the ­international response.

"Officers and staff have been working hard to identify victims, support families
and gather ­evidence to support the ­investigation.

"These include more than 160 officers who are interviewing hundreds of witnesses
who either saw the attack or were in the vicinity when it happened.

"A total of 20 experienced officers, including senior detectives and specialist
forensic officers, have been deployed to Tunisia by the Met's Counter Terrorism
Command (SO15) and more officers are likely to follow."

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for counter
terrorism, said: "I would like to appeal to anyone who was in Sousse and
witnessed the attack to contact us on 0800 789 321 to help with the
investigation, if they haven't done so already.

"We have also set up a dedicated email addresses for people to send any images
and information that may assist."

Video: Queen observes one minute silence in Glasgow

Meanwhile, Tunisia President Beji Caid Essebsi declared a state of emergency
yesterday.

It temporarily gives the government more flexibility and hands the army and
police more authority.

Quick Quiz: News 3/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terror group admits Israel rocket attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 99 words


A GROUP linked to IS has said it fired three rockets into Israel from Sinai in
Egypt.

The faction, which calls itself Sinai Province, said it had acted in retaliation
for what it says is Israeli support for the Egyptian army.

Israel said two rockets landed in the south of the country, causing no
casualties or material damage. At least 17 Egyptian soldiers and 100 IS
militants have died during fighting in Northern Sinai since Wednesday.

The clashes were triggered by a mass assault by IS militants on the town of
Sheikh Zuweid.

Sinai Province claimed the rocket attack on social media on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gunman No2;
BLOODBATH ON THE BEACH ; Scots tourist tells police this is second terrorist
behind Tunisian attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 18 words


COLD-BLOODED ASSASSIN WHO KILLED ALONGSIDE REZGUI PAGES 2&3 GUNMAN No1
Seifeddine Rezgui on beach during attack

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHILLING Artist's impression of second terrorist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Gunman No2;
BLOODBATH ON THE BEACH ; Scots tourist tells police this is second terrorist
behind Tunisian attack

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 9 words


COLD-BLOODED ASSASSIN WHO KILLED ALONGSIDE REZGUI PAGES 2&3

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUNMAN No1 Seifeddine Rezgui on beach during attackCHILLING Artist's
impression of second terrorist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 4:34 AM GMT

Teenager who fled Britain to join Islamic State MOCKS victims of Tunisia terror
attack

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 360 words


A BRITISH teenager who joined Islamic State has mocked the victims of the terror
attack in Tunisia.

AP

Shamima Begum, Amira Abase and Kadiza Sultana fled the UK to fly to Syria

Amira Abase wrote that she was "laughing out loud" after being told 30 tourists
had been gunned down on a beach last week.

The 16-year-old, who fled her London home in February, suggested the tourists
were not innocent, urging an undercover reporter to do their "research".

She believed the reporter was another teenager thinking of joining the terror
group in Syria - and urged them to become a jihadi bride.

The shocking text messages show Abase has become an active recruiter for ISIS in
just four months, but she refused to say whether she had married a frontline
fighter.

Related articles  British teenage jihadi brides on the run after 'fleeing
ISIS...  Fears British family of 12 thought to have fled to Syria could...

Last month an ISIS defector revealed that Abase and fellow GCSE students Shamima
Begum, 15, Kadiza Sultana, 16, are being trained to return to Europe and carry
out terror attacks.

The defector, a senior commander known as Um Asmah, said she was the first
person to make contact with foreign girls crossing the border.

She added that her role was to introduce them to life under the so-called
caliphate's terrifying regime.

In her conversations with the Mail on Sunday reporter Abase also revealed she
missed Britain, but added: "Allah replaces all that with something better."

When asked how she deals with being away from her family, the GCSE student said:
"I dunno really u just do tbh [to be honest]."

She was just 15 when she ran away home with 16-year-old Shamima Begum, 16, and
Kadiza Sultana, 15.

The Abase family lawyer, Tasnime Akunjaee, refused to comment.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "The investigation into all of the missing
girls continues."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Family of British girl thought to
have fled to Syria 'can't stop crying', says father British 'jihadi bride' teen
boasts of Islamic State life with takeaway delight British Jihadi bride
schoolgirls could be banned from coming back to UK

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 12:27 AM GMT

Tunisia's president declares state of emergency following terrorist attack;
Eight days after the Islamist attack in Sousse that killed 38 foreign tourists,
prime minister admits police were too slow to respond to the shooting

BYLINE: Eileen Byrne

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 772 words


Tunisia's president, Beji Caid Essebsi, has declared a 30-day state of
emergency, eight days after 38 foreign tourists, most of them British, were
killed in an Islamist gun attack.

The state of emergency temporarily gives the government more flexibility, and
can be used to give the army and police more authority. Under a decree dating
back more than 30 years it could also potentially be used to restrict the right
of public assembly, the right to strike, and press freedom.

Explaining his decision in an address to the nation on state television, the
president referred to recent attacks on foreign tourists at the Bardo museum and
in Sousse, and also to the difficult economic situation faced by Tunisia since
the 2011 revolution.

Related: Tunisia beach attack: local heroes now face unemployment

"These difficult conditions can be described as exceptional conditions, which
therefore require exceptional measures," he said.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety. As we see in other countries, if attacks like
Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

Essebsi said Tunisia had clearly been targeted in the attacks because of the
progress it was making in creating a democracy, with its new democratic
constitution and "transparent and fair" parliamentary and presidential elections
last year.

With its republican constitution, Tunisia was "a civil state, not drawing on an
Islamic background, or any other background".

He also alluded to the threat to regional stability from the ongoing situation
in Libya - Tunisia's neighbour to the south on the other side of a 310-mile
border - and to the presence of Islamic State and its aim of establishing a
caliphate in the region.

In the address, which he concluded by reading out the formal decree, he did not
indicate what the state of emergency would mean in practical terms.

However, he offered reassurances that the government "respects the freedom of
expression, the freedom of the press. These are among the gains of the
revolution. But those exercising these freedoms must also take into account the
situation".

When a state of emergency was in place from January 2011 until March 2014, the
four different governments in office over that period imposed occasional curfews
after protests degenerated into rioting, and allowed the army to carry out
policing duties, guarding public buildings.

Interviewed on state television following the president's address, presidential
spokesman Moes Sinaoui declined to give details of what measures would be taken
under the current state of emergency.

Some Tunisian journalists noted with misgivings the reference to the media in
the president's speech, after the deputy public prosecutor for Tunis, Sofiene
Sliti, said reporters needed to exercise more responsibility in their reporting
of "terrorism", at a press conference on Thursday.

Related: Final five bodies of Britons killed in Tunisia attack arrive in UK

The declaration came as the final five bodies of the 30 British victims killed
inSousse arrived back in the UK.

There has been criticism of the slow response by security services to the attack
by Islamist militant Seifeddine Rezgui, who opened fire on the beach in front of
the Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse on 26 June. He was eventually shot dead by
Tunisian police in an alley.

The Tunisian prime minister, Habib Essid, admitted in an interview with the BBC
that the police were too slow to respond. "The time of the reaction - this is
the problem," he said, adding that the police had been blocked everywhere.

In the aftermath of the attack, the authorities announced they would move more
speedily to close 80 mosques operating without official authorisation or where
the imam was found to be preaching extreme views delivering the Friday sermon.

Scores more mosques are under review for possible closure, the religious affairs
ministry said. These include small, unofficial mosques opened clandestinely by
Salafist jihadi groups, as well as ordinary neighbourhood mosques.

Tunisia last had a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against the
autocratic regime of Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali.

Under the country's new constitution, approved in January last year, the
president has the right "in the event of imminent danger threatening the
nation's institutions, or the security or independence of the country" to "take
any measures necessitated by the exceptional circumstances".

The parliament will "be deemed to be in a state of continuous session"
throughout the state of emergency. The president "cannot dissolve" the
parliament, the constitution states.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 2:03 PM GMT

Tunisia in 'state of emergency' over fears it could collapse after terror
attacks;
Tunisian government reintroduces state of emergency in response to beach
terrorist attack which killed 30 Britons and eight others at holiday resort

BYLINE: Alice Harrold

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 450 words


Tunisia has declared a state of emergency amid warnings the country could
collapse following the beach massacre in which 38 tourists - including 30
Britons - were gunned down.

In a television address to the nation announcing that a state of emergency would
be reinstated, President Beji Caid Essebsi said "exceptional measures" were now
needed.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety", President Essebsi said, "As we see in other
countries, if attacks like Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

The decision gives the Tunisian army and police more powers and could be used to
limit the right to public assembly, the right to strike and the freedom of the
press. The state of emergency has been declared for a 30-day period which may be
extended.

The beach massacre was the second terrorist attack on a tourist attraction in
Tunisia this year. On 18 March, 22 people, including 17 Europeans, were killed
by two gunmen while visiting the Bardo National Museum in Tunis.

Isis has claimed responsibility for both attacks and the gunmen from both are
believed to have trained in a Libyan jihadist camp run by the Ansar al-Sharia
militia group.

President Essebsi said in his national address the country has been targeted by
Isis terrorists because of the progress it is making in establishing a civil
state democracy which is "not based on an Islamic background or any other
background".

The Tunisian government "respects the freedom of expression, the freedom of the
press. These are among the gains of the revolution", he said, "But those
exercising these freedoms must also take into account the situation".

It has not yet been announced what measures will be taken under the renewed
state of emergency.

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid told the BBC yesterday that the slow police
response to the Sousse attack was a problem. The gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui,
spent almost 35 minutes shooting guests at the Imperial Marhaba hotel and was
able to return to kill some of the wounded before police arrived.

The UK Foreign Office has issued a warning that "further terrorist attacks are
likely, including in tourist resorts, and by individuals unknown to the
authorities". They are advising people visiting the area tp be "extremely
vigilant".

The last five bodies of the British victims were flown home yesterday. Tunisian
police have taken 8 suspects into custody on suspicion of being directly linked
to the massacre. Four others have been released from custody.

Read more:Memorial planned for British terrorism victimsIsis in Syria: We can't
win a war without taking sidesLondon 7/7 bombing image used to urge tourists to
support Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 1:14 PM GMT

Tunisia in 'state of emergency' over fears it could collapse after terror
attacks;
Tunisian government reintroduces state of emergency in response to beach
terrorist attack which killed 30 Britons and eight others at holiday resort

BYLINE: Alice Harrold

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 411 words


Tunisia has declared a state of emergency amid warnings the country could
collapse following the beach massacre in which 38 tourists - including 30
Britons - were guned down.

In a television address to the nation announcing that a state of emergency would
be reinstated, President Beji Caid Essebsi said "exceptional measures" were now
needed.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety", President Essebsi said, "As we see in other
countries, if attacks like Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

The decision gives the Tunisian army and police more powers and could be used to
limit the right to public assembly, the right to strike and the freedom of the
press. The state of emergency has been declared for a 30-day period which may be
extended.

The beach massacre was the second terrorist attack on a tourist attraction in
Tunisia this year. On 18 March, 22 people, including 17 Europeans, were killed
by two gunmen while visiting the Bardo National Museum in Tunis.

Isis has claimed responsibility for both attacks and the gunmen from both are
believed to have trained in a Libyan jihadist camp run by the Ansar al-Sharia
militia group.

President Essebsi said in his national address the country has been targeted by
Isis terrorists because of the progress it is making in establishing a civil
state democracy which is "not based on an Islamic background or any other
background".

The Tunisian government "respects the freedom of expression, the freedom of the
press. These are among the gains of the revolution", he said, "But those
exercising these freedoms must also take into account the situation".

It has not yet been announced what measures will be taken under the renewed
state of emergency.

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid told the BBC yesterday that the slow police
response to the Sousse attack was a problem. The gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui,
spent almost 35 minutes shooting guests at the Imperial Marhaba hotel and was
able to return to kill some of the wounded before police arrived.

The last five bodies of the British victims were flown home yesterday. Tunisian
police have taken 8 suspects into custody on suspicion of being directly linked
to the massacre. Four others have been released from custody.

Read more:Memorial planned for British terrorism victimsIsis in Syria: We can't
win a war without taking sidesLondon 7/7 bombing image used to urge tourists to
support Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 9:03 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Police could be closer to unlocking sleeper terrorist cell after
seizing laptops and phones;
Close allies of Seifeddine Rezgui destroyed computer hard drives when they
learned he had been shot dead after the slaughter of 38 holidaymakers

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 511 words


Laptops and mobile phones seized from associates of terrorist gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui could unlock the secrets of a Tunisian sleeper cell.

Close allies of the radicalised student destroyed computer hard drives when they
learned he had been shot dead after the slaughter of 38 holidaymakers on the
beach in Sousse.

But digital forensic specialists from an anti-terrorism unit in Tunis are now
trying to retrieve vital information from the computers which may reveal who
helped plot the attacks.

Videos, images and social network posts could be key to revealing who
masterminded the attack.

So far detectives have arrested eight people - including the 23-year-old's
girlfriend - as they try to piece together Rezgui's final movements.

It comes as the mass murderer's mother said her son was a "victim" who must have
been "brainwashed".

Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

Radhia Manai, 49, claimed her son "couldn't kill a mouse" after he opened fire
and chased people into the Imperial Marhaba Hotel where he sprayed them with
bullets and hurled homemade explosives at them.

Speaking from her home in Gaafour, Tunisia, she said: "I couldn't believe it, I
can't believe it.

"Once there was a mouse in the house and I asked Seifeddine to kill it and he
refused saying, 'I can't kill anything'. My son is a victim like all the
others."

Radhia believes someone was pressurising her son and perhaps threatening to kill
him if he didn't carry out mass-murder.

She said: "They must have given him drugs and brainwashed him."

Radhia said she feels sorry for the victims and their families and hopes the
people behind the plot are found.

Meanwhile Tunisia's president, Beji Caid Essebsi, has declared a 30-day state of
emergency.

The move temporarily gives the government more flexibility, and can be used to
give the army and police more authority.

Under a decree dating back more than 30 years it could also potentially be used
to restrict the right of public assembly, the right to strike, and press
freedom.

In an address to the nation on state television, the president referred to
recent attacks on foreign tourists at the Bardo Museum - during which British
solicitor Sally Adey was killed - and in Sousse.

He said: "These difficult conditions can be described as exceptional conditions,
which therefore require exceptional measures.

"Tunisia faces a very serious danger and it should take any possible measures to
maintain security and safety. As we see in other countries, if attacks like
Sousse happen again, the country will collapse."

Following the Sousse attack security services closed 80 mosques over fears about
the preaching of extremist views by imams.

Scores more mosques are under review for possible closure, the religious affairs
ministry said.

These include small, unofficial mosques opened clandestinely by Salafist jihadi
groups, as well as ordinary neighbourhood mosques.

Tunisia last had a state of emergency during the 2011 uprising against the
autocratic regime of Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali.

Video: Tunisia beach massacre - Further victims repatriated ahead of minutes
silence

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 12:30 AM GMT

National memorial planned for British victims of overseas terrorism;
Memorial to victims of the Tunisia attack, plus other atrocities, announced as
country prepares to remember those killed in 7/7 London bombings

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy editor

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words


A memorial dedicated to the victims of the terrorist attack in Tunisia and a
separate site of remembrance for all UK nationals who have been killed in
terrorist atrocities overseas will be funded by the government, David Cameron
has announced.

The prime minister also confirmed plans for a special service for those caught
up in the Tunisian atrocity to be held in the autumn. The announcements come as
the country prepares to remember the 52 victims, and hundreds of survivors, of
the 7/7 London bombings 10 years ago. There will be a wreath-laying ceremony at
the memorial in Hyde Park and a national service of remembrance at St Paul's
Cathedral.

Cameron said: "Those who lost their lives in Tunisia last week were innocent
victims of a brutal terrorist atrocity. It is right that we mark and commemorate
them and others murdered by terrorists overseas, appropriately, and support the
loved ones they have left behind in every way we can."

Related: Tunisia beach attack: local heroes now face unemployment

The memorials will be funded by banking fines. The chancellor George Osborne
said good causes should benefit from the misdemeanours of bankers, and that
penalties levied by the Financial Conduct Authority should be reserved for such
a purpose. It is expected that more details will be announced in this week's
budget.

A government spokesman said Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood, whose
brother Jon was killed in the Bali bombing of 2002, will work closely with
families of the Tunisia victims to ensure the government does all it can to
support their immediate needs and to discuss the long-term plan for the memorial
and remembrance service.

Ellwood said the government would discuss the location and design of the
memorial to the Tunisia victims with their families in the months ahead.

He said: "This memorial will be for the families, so we want to talk to them
about our plans to determine what they feel is most appropriate. It could well
be that it is located in the north, since very sadly most of the victims were
from that part of the country.

"Having been through a similar situation, I know how important it is that these
families, who have been united by a single tragedy, have that marked in one
place. They will end up providing mutual support to each other, and to have this
memorial to their loved ones will be very important. It is also right that the
nation recognises the scale of this appalling event."

Ellwood, who has led a long campaign for a single memorial to all victims of
terrorism overseas, said it was important that there was a place to mourn for
everyone touched by such atrocities.

He said: "Sadly, we live in very difficult and dangerous times. We have to
recognise that there are many victims of terrorism who do not have a grave,
whose families don't have a place where they can lay flowers and grieve in the
normal way.

"It is therefore appropriate that we have a national memorial for those caught
up in terrorism abroad. These people must never be forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 2:45 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS TOOK 52 LIVES

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 3269 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade, from Romford, in
Essex.

Mr Baisden had to grow up quickly. He became the man of the house after his
father Patrick died in 1992 and spent much of his time caring for his mother,
who has multiple sclerosis.

He had hoped to marry his partner Paul Groman before he was killed.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an IT business analyst from Norwich who worked for a
publishing company.

Born in Rome, she was brought up in Italy but a passion for languages and travel
led her to move to England at the age of 19.

She was two months away from marrying her fiance Fiaz Bhatti when she died.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker for photographic chain Jessops from Ipswich,
Suffolk.

The eldest of three children, Mr Ellery was born and raised in Southampton, left
school at 18 and moved in with friends in Ipswich shortly before he died.

Jessops closed all its 280 stores to mark a national two-minute silence a week
after the bombings.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich, Suffolk.

Mr Gray was born in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, and met his wife Louise in 1987
when she started a part-time job at the Ipswich hotel owned by his parents. They
went on to have two children, Adam and Ruby.

He qualified as a chartered accountant specialising in tax and commuted every
day from Ipswich to his job with FW Smith Riches and Company in Pall Mall,
central London.

Anne Moffat, 48, head of marketing and communications for Girlguiding UK, from
Old Harlow, Essex.

Miss Moffat studied art in Hull before moving to London but she returned to the
family home in Old Harlow to look after her ailing mother, who died in 2002.

She was committed to helping others, and a ``Make Poverty History'' booklet was
found in her handbag when her body was recovered.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London, originally from
Little Baddow, Essex.

Miss Stevenson had dreamed of becoming a lawyer as a teenager when at school in
Chelmsford and went on to Sussex University before fulfilling her ambition.

She joined specialist criminal law firm Reynolds Dawson but died just two weeks
after buying a new flat in central London.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts, from
Billericay, Essex.

Miss Taylor, who was born in Sidcup, Kent, and grew up in Billericay, discovered
a passion for drama at a young age and went on to study it at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

Her ambition was to work behind the scenes in the arts and she was given a
permanent job at the Royal Society of Arts three days before her death.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Swanwick,
Derbyshire.

Mr Brewster, who was known as Stan, was a senior project manager for Derbyshire
County Council, where his main interests were the design and structure of
bridges.

A keen cyclist who rode 12 miles to work every day, he also played football and
golf and took part in triathlons to raise money for a local hospital.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

The Liverpool FC fan, who was brought up in Corby, Northamptonshire, was
planning to move to Ireland with his wife Veronica.

Kensington and Chelsea Council, where he worked, placed a bench outside the town
hall in his memory.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Mr Foulkes was educated at Hulme Grammar School, where he became a member of the
team that won the Greater Manchester under-16 squash championship.

He had just begun a new job with The Guardian newspaper and travelled to London
on July 7 for a work meeting.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Born in Bristol, she underwent major surgery to correct a curvature of the spine
while at school before studying music and English at Reading University.

The opera fan planned to do a PhD, marry her soulmate James White and had spoken
of her hopes of becoming a mother.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

The father-of-three grew up in Coulsdon in Surrey, Leeds and Liverpool before
going to university in London, where he met his wife Ros.

He was responsible for the popular mobile phone campaign: ``Who would you like
to have a one to one with?''

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked as a personal assistant
for an advertising firm in Paddington.

Miss Webb, who was brought up in Kingston Vale, Surrey, was a passionate
globetrotter who spent nearly a year travelling through Thailand, Australia and
South America with her boyfriend, Chris Driver, before they cut their trip short
after the 9/11 attacks.

She and Mr Driver planned to spend the rest of their lives together and were
intending to buy a home, marry and have a family.

Twenty-six died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Mr Adams was born in Chester and educated at the King's School in Peterborough,
where he shared bunk beds with Labour MP David Lammy.

He was a committed Christian who served as a deacon at his church for three
years. An orphanage he supported in southern India erected a building in his
memory.

Samantha Badham, 35, an internet designer who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Hereford-born Miss Badham was head girl at the John Masefield High School in
Ledbury, Herefordshire, before studying history at Birmingham University.

She and her long-term partner Lee Harris were killed together after they changed
their normal routine and took the Tube because they were planning to meet
friends after work.

Philip Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Mr Beer started work at a salon after leaving school at 16 and dreamed of
travelling the world as a well-known hairdresser.

His friend and colleague Patrick Barnes, who was travelling with him on the
train targeted by suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, said Mr Beer's last words to
him after the attack were: ``Everything's going to be fine.''

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

The mother-of-two ran her own restaurant in Poland before coming to the UK in
2002.

On the day she was killed, her daughter Natalie had arrived to visit her in
London but they missed each other before the tragedy.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

The passionate Arsenal fan came from a large Irish family and worked for a legal
and stationery firm in Chancery Lane.

At the time of his death he had been saving up to go to Australia, and his
family had expected him to move there permanently because the lifestyle would
have suited his laid-back personality.

Rachelle Chung For Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

The devout Roman Catholic grew up on Mauritius, the eldest of three sisters, and
worked to pay her own way through her accountancy studies.

She came to Britain in 2000 to complete her training and married her husband
Billy in London in May 2004.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Leicester-born Miss Daplyn was a talented artist and musician who graduated from
Oxford University in 2001 with a degree in fine art.

She lived in a variety of places, including Pakistan and Nigeria, before moving
into a flat with her boyfriend, Rob Brennan, several months before her death.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from the Caribbean.

Born in Grenada, Mr Frederick moved to Montserrat as a young man and worked
there as a policeman for nearly 32 years as well as recording a calypso song
called Signs of Christmas that is still popular on the island.

He moved to London after becoming worried about the eruption of Montserrat's
Soufriere Hills volcano in the late 1990s.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Miss Gluck was born in the town of Chorzow in Poland and followed her twin
sister Magda to London in 2002.

At the time of her death she and her sister were planning to return to Poland
the next month to introduce their boyfriends to their family.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Istanbul-born Miss Gunoral, an only child who was brought up by her mother after
her parents divorced when she was five, excelled at school and graduated from
university as an actuary in 2003.

The ambitious businesswoman came to Britain after deciding to take a year's
break from her job with Turkey's largest export company to improve her English.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Mr Harris, who grew up in Hereford, worked for architecture firm 3DReid on
projects including Heathrow Airport's central bus station and the Terminal 1
international departures lounge.

He died alongside his partner Miss Badham, whom he met at Hereford Lads Club
some 14 years before the attacks.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker from Luton.

Mrs Ikeagwu was born in Nigeria and came to Britain in 1976 with her husband and
their three young children.

She was devoted to her family and a generous supporter of children in her home
village in Nigeria, which following her death made her a chief and named its
primary school after her.

Emily Jenkins, 24, a PA for a project management company, who lived in Peckham,
south-east London.

Miss Jenkins, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, travelled widely. She lived
in South America, Spain and Australia before returning to Britain and setting
her heart on becoming a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager from
Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

His work for luxury fashion house Burberry took him all over Europe, including a
lot of time in Italy and the company's base in Haymarket in London.

Mr Johnson met his future wife Catherine at school when they were 15, and his
ambition was to see his family comfortable and his children grow up.

Helen Jones, 28, an accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Miss Jones was born in Edinburgh but grew up in Templand near Lockerbie. She
moved to London in November 2001 and worked for Phoenix Equity Partners.

Accountant colleagues called her ``Sherlock Jones'' because she was so good at
sniffing out mistakes.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two from the village of Newgate Street, near
Cuffley, Hertfordshire, who worked as a legal secretary.

She married husband Harry in 1976 and they set up home in Ilford where they
lived for 24 years before moving to Hertfordshire.

Her eldest son, Daniel, lived in Australia but said the important part of his
day was switching on his computer in the morning to find a message from his
mother waiting for him.

Shelley Mather, 26, a tour guide from New Zealand who had been living in London
for three years.

Miss Mather, the only New Zealander to die in the bombings, left her country in
2002 for a tour of Europe and enjoyed the lifestyle so much she qualified as a
travel guide.

Such was her love of travel that her ambition was to ``circumnavigate the
universe''.

Mike Minh Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

He was born in My Tho, south Vietnam, five months before his father was shot
dead by a drunken soldier.

Mr Matsushita later moved to New York with his mother and grew up in the Bronx
but had only been in London a month after moving to be with his girlfriend Rosie
Cowan.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

With a keen intellect and love of debate, he attended City of London School then
studied politics at the University of Warwick.

He normally would not have been on the Piccadilly line train but was going to a
seminar in Holborn in central London on July 7.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mrs Mozakka was born in Shiraz, Iran, before moving to the capital Tehran, where
she met her husband Naber, with whom she had a son, Saeed, and daughter, Saba.

Her family were at one point wrongly told she had survived the blast for up to
45 minutes, but in fact she died instantly.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Miss Otto was brought up in Romania and moved to London in 1984, following in
the footsteps of her sister Dania.

Arriving in England she worked in a series of jobs, including as a Burberry
sales assistant and in publishing, before qualifying in dentistry.

Atique Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

He arrived in England in 2002 fearing for his life and having fled extremists in
his homeland after both his parents were killed in the Kabul war.

Mr Sharifi dreamed of becoming a doctor, but in his spare time he worked in a
pizza take-away so he could send money back to his sister in Afghanistan.

Ihab Slimane, 24, a waiter who lived in Finsbury Park, north London.

Mr Slimane was born in Lyon, France, but was of Tunisian descent.

The IT engineering graduate had been living in the capital for just three weeks
when he was killed, but had already made new friends and impressed work
colleagues.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

The keen sportsman and Luton Town FC fan was drawn to West Africa, particularly
Ghana and Senegal, because the region was his ancestral home.

To reflect his West African roots he changed his name by deed poll shortly
before he died to Christian Njoya Diawara, meaning a man of determination and
strong spirit.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Ms Suchocka's ambition to work as a translator took her to Italy, France, United
States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany.

She only moved to London three months before the attacks and was considering
whether to move back to Poland after her job finished in October 2005.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

She was born in Nairobi, Kenya, and moved to London to study at Lambeth
Hospital. She married her husband Ashock in 1975 and had one son, Kunaal.

Her colleagues said she had the potential to attain a senior role at Great
Ormond Street.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Mr Fatayi-Williams was educated in Nigeria, France and the UK before joining
multinational engineering firm Amec.

On the morning of July 7 2005, he set off as usual for his office in Old Street,
central London, but his journey was disrupted by the chaos caused by the earlier
bombings on three Tube trains and he helped point other commuters in the right
direction before getting on the number 30 bus.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Born in south London, he moved to Zimbabwe with his family as a small child
before later returning to the UK where he achieved well at school and then in
his career.

We was killed on July 7 after taking a different route to the office from usual
after spending the night with a friend from work.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer from Hornchurch, Essex.

Born in Sudan to English parents, Mr Hart moved to the UK at the age of five. He
was passionate about literature and cinema history, and devoted much time to
campaigning for justice and liberty.

He was heavily involved in the Polish solidarity movement, through which he met
his wife Danuta, with whom he had two children. After his death he was awarded
one of Poland's most prestigious honours for his services to democracy.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, worked for a greetings card
firm.

She and her husband David were described as ``soul mates'' who lived ``totally''
for their sons Liam and Aiden.

A talented artist, Mrs Hartley was in London on the morning of 7/7 to attend an
exhibition in Islington, north London, with a colleague.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

She was born at London's University College Hospital, graduated from University
College London and lost her life in Tavistock Square - all within about one
square mile.

Before her death, she was planning to set up her own greeting card company
called Mimento, a play on her nickname ``Mim''.

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

The East Ender was a Londoner and British but ``above all a true Muslim and
proud to be so'', her relatives said.

Following travel disruption on the morning of July 7, she boarded the number 30
bus with a colleague, Emma Plunkett, who survived the blast.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Born in New Delhi in India, she moved to the UK with her family in 1968.

At the time of her death she had recently started a new job with an IT firm
called TXT4 based in Hoxton Square, east London, and was about to marry her
partner.

Sam Ly, 28, a computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Born in Vietnam, My Ly moved with his family to Melbourne, Australia, as a
refugee when he was a toddler.

He proposed to his girlfriend, Mandy Ha, at the age of five when they were at
primary school together, and they went on to become a couple at university
before moving to London in 2003.

Shyanuja Niroshini Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise,
north London.

Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka, she came to London with her family aged just 19
months and went on to graduate from London's South Bank University with a degree
in business studies and administration.

Ms Parathasangary was especially close to her sister, and the two women were
refurbishing a house with a view to moving in together at the time of her death.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Born in Israel, she moved to London where she enjoyed going out almost every
night to ballet, contemporary dance, theatre, opera and concerts.

She was also an obsessive buyer of shoes, costume jewellery and quirky handbags.
After her death, the sale of her ``vast'' collection raised a huge amount of
money for Wizo, the international Jewish women's organisation.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

Mr Russell grew up in Kent and graduated from Kingston University with a degree
in business studies.

He then followed his passion for travelling with a solo trip to South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand before finding work in the City of London. After
joining JP Morgan Asset Management, he was promoted twice in the 20 months
before his death.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

The son of a GP, Mr Wise grew up in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, and went on to
marry his wife Christine in 1976.

Although the pair separated in 1997, they got back together two years before he
was killed in the Tavistock Square bombing.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Born in Ghana to a poor cocoa farming family, she moved to London in 1983 as the
maid of a Lebanese family. She met her husband, Emmanuel, in 1986 and they had a
son and a daughter.

She was planning to return to her homeland with her husband when she was
murdered.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 2:45 AM BST

ATTACKS SHAPED FIGHT AGAINST TERROR

BYLINE: Hayden Smith, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


The July 7 attacks shaped the landscape for the fight against terrorism in the
UK for years to come.

They represented the first major atrocity on British soil by Islamist extremists
and brought into stark relief a threat which was so horrifyingly demonstrated in
New York four years earlier

That the perpetrators were all ``home-grown'', apparently normal members of
society, made their murderous acts all the more shocking.

When another attempt to bomb the capital's transport network failed a fortnight
after 7/7, the sense of alert heightened further.

Then-prime minister Tony Blair warned that the ``rules of the game are
changing'' as he announced wide-ranging powers to combat Muslim extremists.

The following year, the government made public for the first time authorities'
assessment of the possibility of a terror attack in UK at any given time.

In an indication of the enduring nature of the threat, it has mainly stood at
either of the top two levels - critical or severe - since it was first published
in August 2006.

Although no mass casualty attacks on the scale of 7/7 have happened since, there
is no doubt that the UK has been targeted for terrorist operations on a number
of occasions over the last decade.

In November, Home Secretary Theresa May revealed that 40 plots have been foiled
since the bombings.

Some of these have been well-documented, such as a plan to blow up transatlantic
jets and to bomb the London Stock Exchange, while others are known only to the
security services.

Warnings have also been issued about the possibility of a ``Mumbai-style''
attack.

Terrorism returned to London in a different form in 2013 when two Islamist
fanatics murdered Drummer Lee Rigby near Woolwich Barracks in broad daylight.

If al Qaida were seen as posing the greatest threat in the aftermath of 7/7, the
emergence of Islamic State (IS) in the Middle East has added a new dimension to
the challenge facing the police and security services.

Like al Qaida, IS has sought to export its own brand of terror beyond Syria and
Iraq and claimed responsibility for the attack on tourists in Tunisia.

In a recent speech, Mrs May said: ``The atrocities on 7/7, carried out by
British terrorists, intent on the mass murder of fellow British citizens,
changed the way we understood and approached the threat from terrorism.

``Ten years later we have seen that the threat has evolved, and it has become
more serious and more complex.''

Earlier this year police revealed that more than 700 British-based extremists
have travelled to Syria, with a significant proportion of those believed to have
made the journey to fight with the extremist group.

A wave of young men set off to join IS and the group's UK link was most notably
exposed with the unmasking of Londoner Mohammed Emwazi as the infamous militant
known as Jihadi John.

The exodus has led to fears that returning fighters may attempt to inflict
atrocities and the terror threat level was raised from substantial to severe in
August.

The Government has sought to combat the threat by giving police powers to seize
the passports of those suspected of plotting to join the fighting.

There have also been warnings that al Qaida remains intent on committing
atrocities.

In January Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, disclosed that a group of ``core''
terrorists linked to the group are planning attacks against the West.

Counter-terrorism units are busier than ever before. Statistics show suspects
are being arrested at a rate of almost one every day, while senior officers have
also warned rising numbers of women and children are being drawn into extremism.

The pervasiveness of the internet and social media today has added a new
dimension.

Police have warned that extremists are attempting to use online platforms to
propagate attacks and recruit new fighters and have welcomed the Government's
proposals to expand powers to track communications data.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 10:09 PM GMT

Man draped in ISIS flag walks past Houses of Parliament days before anniversary
of 7/7 terror attacks

BYLINE: Sebastian Mann

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 325 words


A man walks past the Houses of Parliament draped in an ISIS-style flag just days
before London remembers the 7/7 terror attacks.

The shocking photographs, posted on a Korean web forum after being spotted by a
tourist, shows the man blithely strolling through the heart of Westminster
wrapped in a large flag, while a girl sits on his shoulders waving a smaller
version.

Police said they intervened but made no arrest because officers determined the
behaviour was within the law.

"This man was spoken to by officers, with consideration given to relevant
legislation, particularly the Public Order Act, and the decision was taken by
officers at the time that the man was acting within the law," said a
spokeswoman.

"He was not arrested."

She added: "Wearing, carrying or displaying of an emblem or flag, by itself, is
not an offence unless; the way in which, or the circumstance in which, the
emblem is worn, carried or displayed is such as to cause reasonable suspicion
that the person is a supporter or member of a proscribed organisation.

Related stories

"While support of and membership of ISIS is unlawful it is not a criminal
offence to advocate the creation of an independent state."

The incident sparked outrage online, with Twitter users questioning why there
were no legal consequences.

Tony Lancaster said: "Man walks round central London with an ISIS flag but
wasn't arrested because he broke no laws.Cud only happen here."

ABSOLUTELY SHOCKING: #ISIS flag spotted near Big Ben days before 7/7 anniversary
#London@metpoliceukpic.twitter.com/cBHVqWw2cX- Anthony Shaw (@AnthonyShaw_) July
5, 2015

One user called Gavin ‏tweeted: "Why are we allowing this to happen on our
streets a man walking past big ben with an ISIS flag."

On Tuesday, the UK will mark the 10 year anniversary of the London terror
attacks that killed 52 people on July 7, 2005.

Among commemorations will be a minute's silence to be held at 11.30am during a
service at St Paul's Cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Sunday Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday

Bodies of Scots victims of Tunisia terror attack released to families

BYLINE: Judith Duffy

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 442 words


The bodies of four  Scottish tourists killed in the Tunisia terror  attack were
yesterday  released to their families. Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld,
and Billy and Lisa Graham, from Perthshire, were among 38 victims killed by
gunman Seifeddine Rezgui when he opened fire in the resort of Sousse.

Yesterday, West London Coroner's Court heard details of the beach massacre as
inquests into their deaths were formally opened.

The coroner was told that William Graham, 51, died from gunshot wounds to his
pelvis while his wife Lisa, 50, died from gunshot wounds to her chest. James and
Ann McQuire, aged 66 and 63, were both fatally shot in the chest.

Their bodies were repatriated back to London for post-mortems to be carried out
and will now be taken to Scotland, at the families' request. They were all
formally identified by their dental records.

Chinyere Inyama, senior coroner for West London, said that the victims' bodies
will be released to their families and authorised transportation to  Scotland.

"I'm going to suspend the investigation pending completion of parallel
investigations in both Tunisia and the UK," he said.

The inquest hearing came as the final five bodies of the 30 Britons murdered in
the attack, which took place on Friday, June 26, arrived at RAF Brize Norton in
Oxfordshire in a RAF C-17 aircraft yesterday. The coffins carrying Lisa
Burbidge, Stuart Cullen, Christopher Dyer, Bruce Wilkinson and Claire Windass
were loaded on to hearses and taken in convoy to the same coroner's court.

The first inquests into the deaths of the eight British victims have been opened
and adjourned, during which Detective Sergeant David Batt of the Metropolitan
Police Counter Terrorism Command described how the shootings lasted around 30
minutes.

"Tourists were indiscriminately targeted by the gunman," he said in a statement
read during the hearings. "The gunman was shot by security  services."

The bodies of the victims were moved to the central mortuary in  Tunis after
they were killed, he added.

"Senior UK police identification managers have assisted in Tunisia and in the UK
to oversee the identification process," he said.

Batt said 275 witness accounts have been taken by police so far, and more than
1,200 potential witnesses have  returned to the UK. "Accounts are being taken
from those who are deemed significant," he added.

On Friday, a minute's silence was held across the UK in memory of the victims of
the shooting in the Tunisian beach resort.

Gunman Rezgui - who is known to have had links to Daesh - was shot dead
following the attack.

Tunisian authorities have since  arrested several people on suspicion of helping
him.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SHE


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                  July 5, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

This is a random war, one we can't control and that's why we all must continue
to live our lives to the fullest;
The UK marks the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings on Tuesday, while
still reeling from the Tunisian attacks on British tourists. JUSTINE HALIFAX
catches up with Paul Dadge, who was thrust into the global spotlight the day
Islamic terrorists carried out the first suicide attack on British soil.

BYLINE: JUSTINE HALIFAX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1222 words


ADECADE ago, former firefighter Paul Dadge was 28 years old and a fortnight into
a new job as an IT consultant in the capital, still getting to grips with the
tube network.

So when a Tannoy announcement warned there had been a power surge at Edgware
Road and City Line train commuters were to alight at the next stop he thought
nothing of it.

Paul, now 38, began the rest of the journey to his Hammersmith workplace on
foot. Within minutes he'd reached Edgware Road, where he was met with
unimaginable scenes.

That morning's rush hour had taken a devastating, tragic and shocking turn.

Three bombers had detonated explosives on the London Underground in the
first-ever suicide attack on British soil.

In total four bombs went off - the fourth on a double-decker bus in Tavistock
Square - claiming the lives of 52 innocent men and women, and injuring more than
700 commuters.

In Edgware Road, where six people died, Paul met people emerging with "black
sooted faces, soot around their noses and covered in dust from the tunnel
walls".

Faced with such carnage, and unaware that a bomb had gone off, Paul chose to
stay and help.

It was a decision that would thrust him into the global media spotlight.

A split-second photograph which captured him helping then 29-year-old Davinia
Turrell, who was wearing a burns gel pack over her face, proved such a powerful
image it was circulated around the globe.

It came to epitomise the strength and kindness of the human spirit, as well as
the life-changing horror those who had survived would face.

Ten years on, a lot has happened for Paul.

He has got married, moved house and had two wonderful children, Beatrice, aged
four, and Thomas, who is two.

He is chairman of Burntwood Community First Responders team, a role in which he
has met Hollywood A-lister Hugh Grant.

And he remains a first responder himself, as well as running an IT company in
Norton Canes.

With so much happening, and such a busy life, you might expect the memories of
that fateful day ten years ago to have faded.

Not a bit. Paul's memories of July 7, 2005, are just as vivid as ever - in fact,
he says, they are even more so.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Mercury, Paul, of Stafford, revealed:
"It might as well be the first year anniversary, rather than the 10th, because
that's just how very, very, vivid those memories of that day are still in my
mind today. They have been added to as the years have passed by the people I
have met.

"Because the thing about anyone involved in 7/7, is that they crave information
about exactly what happened, from as many different angles, because it's another
piece to add to the jigsaw of that day, "I recently met someone who remembered
me from 7/7 and I'd no idea who he was.

"He said that I'd given him a chair, and when he'd said he was OK, I'd
apparently said: 'That's your chair, I've put your name on it'.

"That sounds like something that I would say, and it's really nice to hear
stories like this even if I've no recollection of it . "Every time something
like that happens, or new information comes out, it fills in the gaps."

While it is a horrifying reality that many terrorist attacks have taken place in
the interim years, it is the slaughter on the sunbeds in Sousse that has been
described by Foreign minister Tobias Ellwood as the "most significant attack on
British people since 7/7".

Among the victims of the Tunisia atrocity were student Joel Richards, 19, his
grandfather Patrick, 78 - both from Wednesbury - and his 48-year-old uncle
Adrian Evans from Tipton.

Their bodies were flown home, alongside those of former Birmingham City player
Denis Thwaites, 70 and his wife Elaine, 69, on Friday to be met by a Guard of
Honour at RAF Brize Norton.

Tessa Jowell MP, who recently delivered a 10th anniversary 7/7 memorial lecture
beside Tavistock Square, has called on Britain to be as strong over the deaths
in Sousse as the nation was in 7/7. Back in 2005 Jowell was in Singapore, having
just won the 2012 Olympics for London in her role as minister for Olympics, when
she learned of the 7/7 attacks.

Paul was in the audience listening to her speech and echoes her comment that:
"we will never be defeated by murderers who seek to divide us. They succeed only
in bringing us all closer together."

The father-of-two added: "The Prime Minister has revealed four UK terror attacks
have been thwarted so far this year in UK.

"And with the attack in Tunisia, where there were victims from the Midlands, and
the 10th anniversary of 7/7, people's thoughts about terrorism will come back to
the fore.

"But generations before us they were dealing with world wars.

"They were having either to ship their children away so they didn't get bombed
or send them off to war. We are not having to do that.

"This is a totally different war.

This is a random one, one that we can't control, manage, or risk-assess - and
that's the concern. "But people need to remember they've got more chance of
being taken out by another car while driving, or being knocked down crossing the
road than be affected by a terrorist act.

"You have to carry on as much as you can, and just live life, because you don't
know how long you're going to be here for.

"One minute you could be mowing the lawn, the next minute you're dead. That's
shocking, but that's the reality of life.

"On 7/7 I had a choice to help or walk away. I helped.

"While I was helping that photograph was taken, and it has given me the
opportunity to do things that I wouldn't have had the opportunity to do.

"My day now can vary between extremes. One morning, for example, I was on the
sofa with Lorraine just talking and that evening I was giving CPR to someone in
cardiac arrest.

"It's like the Alton Towers incident and people saying 'I'm not going to go on a
ride again'.

"It's extremely unfortunate that these things happen - and unbelievable that
they happen again and that people die in such an horrific way - but you still
have to live your life to the full, and lead as normal a life as possible.

"While I was at Tessa's memorial lecture, I met two people who'd lost daughters
at Edgware Road and as a father myself now, with my own daughter, I can't
comprehend losing her in that way. That heartache continues for them.

"There will be people who think the incidents out in Tunisia and 7/7 in some way
will make them martyrs, or further their aims or beliefs for whatever terrorist
organisation they are involved in.

"But we are so much stronger in the emergency services and a lot more prepared
than we were 10 years ago. So is the Government in providing support and
assistance.

"In reality these acts of terrorism just make us more resilient." Paul, who
revealed that he may pursue some sort of political post in the next five years
but declined to comment further, will be one of four people giving a reading at
the afternoon 7/7 anniversary service in Hyde Park. "We will also probably be
giving a hat tip to the guys in Tunisia," he added.

The community first responder has now put pen to paper about his life, including
pre and post 7/7 - and how just powerful the photo of him with Davinia proved to
be - in a book titled Man In The Mask.

"It's something I have wanted to do for the last nine years and I felt the 10th
anniversary was a poignant time," he said. "It's a story about fate really
because most of my life has been shaped by 7/7."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ The powerful image of ¦Paul Dadge which captured him helping Davinia
Turrell, who was wearing a burns gel pack over her face, was circulated around
the globeJoel Richards, Adrian Evans and Patrick Evans were ¦all killed during
the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  July 5, 2015
                                   Edition 1;

Terror chiefs fear UK attack could come any day;
UK alert status on brink of highest terror danger level

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 637 words


By James Fielding BRITAIN is facing the biggest threat from terrorists for
nearly a decade, according to security sources.

Ministers have met MI5 and counter-terror police chiefs to discuss raising the
threat level to "critical", meaning an attack is imminent.

Threats from the Islamic State to attack the West during Ramadan and to mark its
first year are thought to have prompted the re-think on national security.

It comes a week after 30 British holidaymakers were slaughtered in the Tunisian
resort of Sousse by IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

The last time TURN TO PAGE 7 FROM FRONT PAGE Britain was placed at critical risk
of attack was on June 30, 2007, following the failed bomb attempt at Glasgow
airport.

Currently the threat level facing the country is "severe" which means an attack
is highly likely.

The fresh fears of a terror strike come as the country prepares to mark the 10th
anniversary of the 7/7 attacks in London, in which 52 commuters were killed.

On Thursday, three Islamic State fanatics were arrested in Pakistan over fears
they were planning a terror attack in London on July 7. Maps of the capital and
IS propaganda were found on their computers during a police raid on a shop in
Peshawar.

A well-placed insider revealed that security chiefs were homing in on three
areas of concern; east London, the West Midlands and Greater Manchester.

The source said: "The authorities are monitoring thousands of people who are
deemed a threat.

"They had their work cut out before the rise of the Islamic Sate but the threat
of terrorism now is probably at it's highest for eight years.

"The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre meets regularly and there have been serious
discussions about whether to raise the nation's threat level to critical. To
make that leap is a very big step because what it is basically saying to the
public is that we are about to be attacked.

"For that reason the data has to be watertight to make such a decision and for
the time being there isn't enough credible evidence to do so.

"However the discussions are ongoing and nothing has been discounted.

"We are facing a really serious threat from Islamic State." The source said the
East End is a hotbed of IS supporters and a number of "persons of interest" were
being monitored there.

He said: "There are a number of jihadists in east London, including some we
believe have either come back from Syria or are helping people travel to the
country.

"It is probably the part of Britain under the most focus from the security
services.

"The other hot spots include certain areas of the West Midlands and within
Greater Manchester where jihadists are not only plotting attacks here but also
abroad."

The UK threat levels were first published in 2006 and raised from severe to
critical a week later when police smashed a plot to blow up passenger planes
flying between the UK and the US.

Britain was again placed at critical the following year when Muslim extremists
drove a blazing car laden with propane canisters into Glasgow airport.

That attack came just a day after two unexploded car bombs were discovered in
London's Park Lane and Piccadilly.

The UK terror threat was raised from substantial to severe last August amid
fears that British jihadists could return from fighting with IS.

Haras Rafiq, from counterextremist think tank The Quilliam Foundation, added:
"Raising the threat level is taken extremely seriously, the intelligence has to
be faultless.

"The threat from the Islamic State, who are beginning to mass on the Libyan
coastline so near to Europe, is growing all the time.

"So far the sterling work by the intelligence services and the police has
prevented a serious attack here in the last 10 years but luck has also played a
part."

'The authorities are monitoring thousands of people. The threat of terrorism is
at its highest for eight years'

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                                  July 5, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'You fear for your life. We thought the killer was in the hotel';
Couple escaped ISIS terror attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: Keiran Southern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words


A BLYTH milkman has told of the day he escaped ISIS.

Ian Jennison, 49, was relaxing by the pool while on holiday in Tunisia with
partner Julie when the sound of gunshots rang out.

At first, the granddad to Niamh, aged two, and sixweek-old Erin thought it was
fireworks.

But ISIS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui had opened fire just 40 yards away, beginning
a killing spree that would result in 38 deaths.

Ian said: "When we realised what it was, everyone jumped up, there was mass
panic. I was thinking, 'this cannot be real, it must be a bad dream.' .

"My first thought was to go and get Julie from the bathroom, I wasn't going
anywhere without her. Julie has arthritis so she cannot run, we had to walk back
to the hotel.

"You fear for your life, you don't know where the gunman is. There was an
explosion when we were in the hotel, then you start wondering if the hotel will
blow up."

Staff then directed the terrified couple to their room, but the ordeal was not
over yet.

Ian said: "On the way to our room, there was a glass door that stood open. I
shut it so no one could get in, and it made a horrible screeching sound across
the floor.

"After about 20 minutes of being in the room, we heard the screeching sound
again. There was no shouting, no screaming, just the sound of footsteps coming
up the hall. We thought the killer had come into the hotel, and he was about to
boot the door down and finish the job.

"It was absolutely terrifying, but luckily it was a hotel worker and they walked
past our room."

As the couple waited anxiously in the room, Ian faced the chilling prospect of
texting his three kids, Leanne, 27, Steph, 26 and James, 24.

Not wanting to scare them, but knowing it could be the last time they spoke, he
added 'lots of love' to the message, informing them of the attack. Ian and Julie
spent hours cowering in the room, thinking of their grandkids.

Ian said: "I just wanted to pick them up and give them a cuddle and see them
again. My two grandkids are everything to me."

The grateful couple now want to raise money for the hotel staff who risked their
lives to make sure tourists were safe.

They witnessed incredible acts of heroism on the Tunisian beach, and they want
to say thank you to the people who saved their lives.

Ian said: "Lots of the workers at the hotel went back outside while the shooting
was still happening, because they wanted to make sure people were safe.

"Young men were standing in the way of the killer, like human shields, telling
him 'we are Muslims, you'll have to shoot us if you want to get past',' and the
killer turned back.

"That's true bravery. The £20,000 isn't much, especially when divided up between
all the workers, but it should put food on their table for a week or so.

"It's the least we can do, they're heroes."

To donate money to the hotel workers, visit Ian's fundraising page on
https://crowdfunding. www.justgiving.com/ian-jennison

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Ian Jennison and Julie ¦Duffell of Cramlington, who were in the Belle
View Park Hotel, inset in Tunisia, very close to the terrorist attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 7:44 PM GMT

Egypt journalists face jail for 'reporting false terror attack information';
Egypt may take legal action against journalists who report "false" military
death tolls in jihadist attacks that contradict official statements, if new
anti-terrorism law approved

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck in Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 471 words


Egypt could take legal action against journalists who publish stories
contradicting official statements on terrorist attacks if a new law is approved
this week.

President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has vowed to pass tough new anti-terrorism
legislation following the assassination of his prosecutor general last week,
raising fears that the new measures will be used to target voices critical of
the government.

The law, which focuses broadly on issues of counterterrorism and is expected to
be passed within days, raises the prospect of a minimum two-year sentence for
"reporting false information on terrorist attacks that contradicts official
statements".

Ahmed el-Zend, Egypt's justice minister, told AFP news agency that the law was
prompted in part by coverage of a wave of attacks against the army by Islamic
State in Iraq and the Levant (Isil) loyalists on Wednesday.

Figures provided by security officials had suggested that the death toll could
be as high as 70, making it one of the bloodiest days on record for Egypt's army
in its fight against militants loyal to the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant
(Isil).

Military spokesman Mohamed Samir later put the figure at 21, warning Egyptian
media outlets not to trust reporting in the foreign press.

On Saturday, Egypt's foreign ministry handed reporters a list of suggestions
over how to describe the attackers. In place of Isil, it suggested "slayers".

In Egypt, media freedom has become increasingly limited since the military coup
which overthrew the country's first popularly elected president in 2013.

The draft law has ruffled feathers among an Egyptian press which often now
marches in lockstep with the government, giving favourable coverage to aspects
of a sweeping crackdown that has seen tens of thousands of people - including
journalists - arrested over a two-year period.

The country's Journalists Syndicate on Sunday described the new provision as
"dangerous".

It will also raise concerns for foreign journalists working in Egypt. The
international press has faced harassment and last year three al-Jazeera English
journalists were jailed on terrorism charges for between seven and ten years.

Although Australian correspondent Peter Greste was eventually deported, his two
colleagues await their verdict in a lengthy retrial .

There are currently 15 journalists in Egyptian custody, according to the
Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), the highest number recorded by the
organisation in the country since it began compiling statistics in 1990.

The Egyptian authorities deny that any journalists are being held on the basis
of their work.

Mr Zend insisted on Saturday that the new law should be seen in a different
light. "I hope no one interprets this as a restriction on media freedoms," he
told AFP. "It's just about numbers."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT

David Cameron plans permanent memorial to Tunisia terror victims;
Memorial to the beach attack victims could be located in the North, with a
separate national memorial built to remember all Britons killed by terrorists
overseas

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words


A permanent memorial will be built in the UK dedicated to the 30 British victims
of last week's terrorist attack in Tunisia, David Cameron has announced.

A special service of remembrance will also be held for those caught up in the
atrocity in the autumn, the Prime Minister said.

Plans are also under way to create a separate national memorial for all Britons
killed in terrorist attacks overseas.

The Prime Minister announced the proposals on the eve of the 10th anniversary of
the July 7 London bombings of 2005, which will be marked on Tuesday by a
ceremony and a national service of remembrance.

"Those who lost their lives in Tunisia last week were innocent victims of a
brutal terrorist atrocity," Mr Cameron said.

"It is right that we mark and commemorate them and others murdered by terrorists
overseas appropriately and support the loved ones they have left behind in every
way we can."

The memorials will be funded by banking fines, which are allocated by George
Osborne, the Chancellor, who has decided that penalties imposed on bankers for
their misdemeanours should be used for good causes.

On Tuesday, the country will remember the 52 victims, and hundreds of survivors,
of the 7/7 London bombings, with a wreath-laying ceremony at the 7/7 memorial in
Hyde Park. A national service of remembrance will also be held at St Paul's
Cathedral.

Tobias Ellwood, the Foreign Office minister whose brother Jonathan was killed in
the Bali bombing of 2002, promised to discuss plans for the Tunisia memorial and
remembrance service with families of victims and survivors of the attack.

"This memorial will be for the families, so we want to talk to them about our
plans to determine what they feel is most appropriate," Mr Ellwood said. "It
could well be that it is located in the North, since very sadly most of the
victims were from that part of the country.

"Having been through a similar situation, I know how important it is that these
families, who have been united by a single tragedy, have that marked in one
place. They will end up providing mutual support to each other, and to have this
memorial to their loved ones will be very important. It is also right that the
nation recognises the scale of this appalling event."

Mr Ellwood, who has led a long campaign for a single memorial to all victims of
terrorism overseas, said he was delighted this would also go ahead.

After the 2002 terrorist attack on the Sari Club, which killed 28 Britons, he
flew to Bali and to identify his brother and bring his body back to the UK.

"Sadly, we live in very difficult and dangerous times. We have to recognise that
there are many victims of terrorism who do not have a grave, whose families
don't have a place where they can lay flowers and grieve in the normal way," Mr
Ellwood said.

"It is therefore appropriate that we have a national memorial for those caught
up in terrorism abroad. These people must never be forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 12:15 PM GMT

Memorial planned for victims of Tunisia terror attack, says PM

BYLINE: Tom Ough

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 683 words


A memorial is to be dedicated to victims of last week's terrorist attack in
Tunisia, David Cameron has announced, together with a separate site of
remembrance for all UK nationals killed by terrorists overseas.

A total of 38 tourists, 30 of them British, were murdered by the lone gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui at a beach near the resort town of Sousse.

The attack marked the biggest terror attack on Britons since the July 7 London
bombings in 2005, which took place ten years ago this weekend.

Tunisia last night declared a state of emergency, saying that the country was
unsafe in the wake of the shooting and faces potential collapse from further
attacks.

President Beji Caid Essebsi said that an "exceptional situation required
exceptional measures" as he reintroduced a month of heightened security measures
first brought in after the Arab Spring uprising in 2011. They will give security
forces more powers and limit the right to assembly.

"If attacks like Sousse happen again, the country will collapse," he said in a
national televised address in which he decribed poor security and a lack of
international will to tackle Islamic State as contributing to the shooting.

A holidaymaker recovering after he was shot three times while protecting his
fiancé said last night that the killer showed "no emotion" during his rampage
against western tourists.

Matthew James, 30, threw himself on top his his fiancée, Saera Williams, to
protect her from the bullets moments before he was shot in the shoulder, chest
and hip.

Lying injured on the sand, he saw Rezgui turning over sunbeds to shoot those
hiding undeneath and "making sure they were dead", said Mr James, who is being
treated at Cardiff hospital.

"There was no emotion in his face. He looked like a postman going about his
business but instead of delivering letters he was strolling around shooting
people," he told the Sunday Mirror.

The killer's mother, Radhia Manai, 49, meanwhile told The Sunday Times said that
her son was a "victim" who had not even been able to kill a mouse in their home.

Her first reaction was "it's impossible" when she was told that her son had
carried out the massacre.

"I think someone was pressurising my son to do this. Maybe they said: 'Do this
or we'll kill you'," she said. "They must have given him drugs and brainwashed
him to do this evil thing. I want those people found."

She added: "My son is a victim like all the others. I want to know who is the
head of all this, who did this to him, and I want them to go to prison or be
killed."

Mr Cameron yesterday announced that proceeds from banking fines will used to
fund the new memorial for the victims of the attack, while a special service at
St Paul's will be held in the autumn for those caught up in the atrocity.

The prime minister commented: "It is right that we mark and commemorate them and
others murdered by terrorists overseas, appropriately and support the loved ones
they have left behind in every way we can."

More inquests are expected to be formally opened today into the deaths of the
British tourists.

Some survivors expressed renewed anger at lax security at the resort after
learning that a suicide bomber had struck at the same beach two years before.

No-one but the bomber, Mohamed Khalil Ben Yousseff, 22, was hurt when his bomb
exploded prematurely as he ran towards guests at the resort in 2013.

Survivors said that it should have acted as a warning, leading to more guards on
the beaches.

Rita Williams, 76, from Maesteg, Wales, who narrowly missed being shot, told the
Sunday Telegraph: "We never noticed any police in the two weeks we were out
there."

With British tourism to Tunisia expected to nosedive after the attacks, a
Tunisian communications firm has drawn criticism for launching an advertising
campaign that trades off images of previous terrorist atrocities.

Ramdam Agency posters asked readers whether they would stop visiting London, New
York and Paris, with the question superimposed on to images from the 7/7
attacks, 9/11 and the massacre of the staff of the French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo in January.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        July 5, 2015 Sunday 6:26 PM GMT

World must learn lessons from the Srebenica genocide which took place 20 years
ago this week;
Recent terror attacks and the rise of nationalism makes this a good time to look
at what can happen when division spirals out of control

BYLINE: By Abbie Wightwick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1166 words


Today a group of people will come to Wales to share their stories of the
Srebenica genocide in Bosnia, which happened 20 years ago this week. On July 11
1995 General Ratko Mladic and his Bosnian Serb forces marched into the town of
Srebenica and systematically murdered 8,272 Muslim men and boys. 8,272 Muslim
men and boys murdered

Shockingly, just two years earlier the town had been declared a UN Safe Area,
under the watch of the UN Protection Force.

But in July 1995 Serbian paramilitary units overran and captured the town,
despite its designation as an area "free from any armed attack or any hostile
act"

Related content: The Welsh policeman who tracked down Bosnian war criminals

Dutch UN soldiers in the town, as peace keepers, failed to retaliate in what
became the first genocide on European soil since the Nazi Holocaust of World War
Two. Srebenica, the worst massacre on European soil since World War Two

At the time I was about to get married and had been looking at sunny places to
go on honeymoon. I had never been there but as a teenager I had friends,
including my soon to be husband, who had visited the former Yugoslavia, which
eventually split and fell to nationalist forces with murderous intent against
the Muslim population after the death of President Tito.

In July 1995 and in the months after we watched the horrifying massacre in
Bosnia unfold on our 20th century television screens. There were shocking images
of half starved Muslim men and boys, their bodies like skeletons. It was
unimaginable this was happening and the world was impotent to act.

Related content: Tunisian victims remembered

Given the relative silence at the time those affected are keen to tell the world
about the massacre 20 years on, especially given there are still those in Bosnia
who deny it happened, and given the continuing rise in nationalism, xenophobia,
racism and religious hatred stalking Europe and the rest of the globe.

One of those who will be speaking at tonight's event at the Senedd, organised by
charity Remembering Srebenica and hosted by First Minister Carwyn Jones is
Srebenica genocide survivor, Nedzad Avdic. Teenager hunted down and shot
survived to tell the world

Speaking to the 37-year-old earlier this week, he told me how he was hunted down
and shot as a 17-year-old, but miraculously survived to tell the world his
story. A story he has not recounted until recently, admitting that for years the
after effects left him first "cold" and then despairing that it would make a
difference to bear witness.

Related content: Teachers join students on Ramadan fast

In 1992 Nedzad's family home was destroyed by Serb soldiers. The then
14-year-old, his father, mother and three younger sisters escaped capture and
after months of hiding in woods, sheltered in Srebrenica in March 1993.

It was a period of starvation and he recalls playing football with UN troops
"who we saw as rescuers". in July 1995, when Mladic's offensive started, he says
the Dutch UN soldiers left. 'We waited for help but it didn't come'

"They forgot us, left their check-points and fled. We had no option but to
follow them and wait for help but it came from nowhere."

Nedzad hid in the hills with his uncle and father where they were attacked by
Serb artillery.

"An endless column of men and boys, many were killed and the wounded were crying
out for

help, in vain. In the chaos," he recounts.

"I lost my father and ran through the crowd crying and calling for him. Then, we
could not keep going forward because we were in the back part of the column that
was broken. We were lost in the middle of the forest, we did not know where to
go. Serb soldiers shouted by megaphone: "Go out or you will be killed....You
will have treatment according to the Geneva Convention".

Some 2,000 men and boys were in a group who handed themselves in with Nedzad.
Loaded on lorries they were driven to a field to be shot.

"I, a 17-year-old boy, realised it was the end. I was trying to hide on the
lorry behind the men wishing to live a few more seconds. The others did the
same. Finally, I had to jump out. We were told to find a place and lined up.

"I was thinking that my mum would never know where I finished when they began to
shoot us in our backs. I did not know whether I lost consciousness, but I lay on
my stomach bleeding and trembling." 'I worried my mum wouldn't know where I
died'

Shot in the right arm and stomach the teenager,left for dead, managed to escape
and survived the war, though his father and uncle did not.

Today he wants to raise his three and five-year-old daughters "to hate no one".

"When they are older definitely I will tell them what happened. But how you tell
them without making them hate anyone is hard, but I must do this."

Related content: Cardiff teenagers join IS

He says he is coming to Wales because it is important to tell what happened to
show people how tension in communities can spiral out of control.

"It is very important, especially here in the UK, for people to hear what
happened. We lived in a multi- cultural society but the hatred expanded and took
over."

Related content: Anniversary event at Senedd Parents must raise their children
not to hate

Two mothers, who lost sons and other male relatives in Srebenica, agree. Munira
Subasic, 57,lost husband Hilmo and their younger son Nermin, aged 19 in the
genocide. Now president of the Mothers of Srebrenica, a group set up to support
bereaved mothers and help them find the remains of their dead, told me the world
hasn't learned from Srebenica.

"Our souls are bleeding and will never stop," she said, "I would like to tell
mothers giving birth to raise their children as good, decent people with respect
for others."

Kada Hotic, 60, stresses that the whole world suffers when religious and racial
hatred is allowed to flourish. Referring to recent terrorism events and the
horrors of IS in the Middle East, she said, "No one is left unhurt by these
catastrophes. I want to tell the world to respect everybody's life so that all
lives can be safer and better.

"I want the world to know the truth about what happened in Srebenica, to accept
this truth as a warning for the future so genocide does not happen again. "
Carwyn Jones tells Wales to stand united against hatred

Wise words, from two women, who will be in Srebenica for the anniversary while
Nedzad, who returned to live in Srebenica 12 years after the massacre, will be
at the Senedd joining community leaders from around Wales and First Minister
Carwyn Jones for tonight's anniversary event.

Speaking ahead of the meeting Carwyn Jones said, "We must never forget lessons
that need to be learned from this dark time in our recent history and stand
united against hatred and division in our communities."

Sentiments to remember and take heed of, especially after events in Tunisia last
week, and the on-going terror around the world.

"We need to raise children not to hate," warns Nedzad. Generous words from
someone left for dead by those who hated him purely because of his religion.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday

Permanent memorial to Tunisian terrorist attack victims revealed by Prime
Minister

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


The Prime Minister has announced a permanent memorial for the 30 British victims
of the Tunisia terror attack will be created.

David Cameron has announced plans for a memorial to the victims of the deadliest
terrorist attack on Britons since 7/7 will be developed over the upcoming
months.

Watford couple Chris Dyer, 32, and his wife Gina Van Dort, 30, were on holiday
at the time of the attack on Friday, June 26.

While Gina managed to survive after she was shot in the chin with the bullet
exiting her eye, Chris died on the lawn.

Over the coming months, bereaved relatives of the holidaymakers killed by a lone
gunman in the Tunisian resort of Sousse will be consulted on the memorial's
location and design.

Foreign office minister Tobias Ellwood, whose brother was killed in the 2002
Bali bombing, has been appointed by the Prime Minister to meet with relatives
and discuss suitable locations for the memorial.

A second site of remembrance will be established for all British nationals who
have been killed in atrocities overseas.

Both memorials will be funded through fines levied on banks by the Financial
Conduct Authority.

A remembrance service for the victims will be held in the autumn.

Mr Cameron said: "It is right that we mark and commemorate them and others
murdered by terrorists overseas appropriately, and support the loved ones they
have left behind in every way we can."

The RAF has now completed their operation to repatriate the dead from Tunisia
with the final five bodies returned to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire over the
weekend.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2015 Monday

Kosovo police mobilize to prevent terrorist attack after intercepting phone call

LENGTH: 743 words


Text of report by Kosovo Albanian privately-owned newspaper Koha Ditore on 2
July

[Report by Vehbi Kajtazi: "Phone Call That Alerted Police About Terrorist
Attacks"]

Pristina, 1 July: A phone conversation between a person from Gjilan and an
Albanian from Macedonia who is currently in Syria has mobilized the Kosovo
Police in taking measures to foil "a possible terrorist attack in Kosovo." As
part of the measures, for several days the Kosovo Police officers have been
ordered to wear bulletproof jackets. However, on the record police officials say
that there is no high-level threat from terrorist attacks.

This newspaper learned from its sources within the prosecution bodies that, as
part of the investigations into some suspects, a telephone conversation was also
wiretapped, which was interpreted as the possible plotting of terrorist attacks.

"During a telephone conversation, the young man from Gjilan asked an Albanian
from Macedonia to help him go to Syria and to fight for jihad," the source said.
"The interlocutor from Syria replied that jihad can be also practiced there
where the person is," the source explained. This conversation was interpreted as
a possibility for terrorist attacks in Kosovo, although there is no real threat
that this might happen.

The Kosovo Police officials have continuously said that they have plans and they
are working together with other law enforcement bodies to prevent any criminal
act in Kosovo.

"The Kosovo Police assesses that at this moment there is no high-level threat of
terrorism in the Republic of Kosovo; however, Kosovo cannot be immune to such
attacks, just as many developed countries in Europe and further afield cannot,"
Kosovo Police spokesperson Baki Kelani told this newspaper on 1 July.

A US State Department report on terrorism published recently notes that the
threat from violent Islamic extremism has gradually increased in Kosovo, which
after the 1999 conflict was partially helped by foreign organizations advocating
extremist ideologies. [passage omitted]

The Kosovo Police authorities have said that they have continuously made
assessments of possible security threats to the country and based on the threats
that may come from terrorism, terrorist groups or individuals, proper security
measures were taken and the police presence was increased.

"Based on the legal framework and in line with the national strategy against
terrorism and the action plan stemming from that strategy, the Kosovo Police
monitor activities of people or groups about whom there may be information that
they pose a threat to the constitutional order in the future or may carry out
any criminal activity," spokesperson Kelani said.

Kelani explained that such actions were being taken in order to uncover possible
plotting criminal activity, including terrorist attacks and religious extremism,
and to foil such attacks. He said the Kosovo Police had started investigations
against 130 people in connection with participation in terrorist organizations,
and the organization, recruitment, incitement, and financing of individuals to
join terrorist organizations. The police, he explained, is closely cooperating
with the Special Prosecution of Kosovo on all those cases.

Kelani noted that as part of that operation, over 80 people were arrested and
more than 100 locations of suspected persons were searched. According to
spokesperson Kelani, the Kosovo Police has enough capacities to foil and combat
any form of crime or criminal activity, including security threats along the
border area.

"The Kosovo Police are among many active stakeholders in preventing violent
extremism and terrorism; therefore, the police cooperate with other institutions
of the Republic of Kosovo in taking due measures to prevent such acts," Kelani
said.

Last week, the Kosovo police searched five non-governmental organizations under
the suspicions that they were involved in financing terrorist activities and
money laundering. "Nisa", "Bregu i Diellit", and "IbniSina" organization
operating in Pristina, and "Kurani" and "EhliBejti" operating in Prizren were
the targets of the 24 June police search, carried out on the orders of the
Special Prosecution.

"The operation is one of the activities related to a case that the Special
Prosecution of the Republic of Kosovo is investigating, in order to prevent and
combat terrorism in the Republic of Kosovo," the State Prosecution said.

Source: Koha Ditore, Pristina, in Albanian 2 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 8:26 AM GMT

Pals of Tunisian terror attack family to raise funds for their funerals;
Friends of Joel Richards, his uncle Adrian Evans and grandfather Patrick Evans
want to help his mum Suzanne with funeral costs

BYLINE: By Mary Griffin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


Grieving friends who lost three Black Country pals in the Tunisian terror
attacks are raising money to help the family pay for their funerals.

The devastated friends of Joel Richards, his uncle Adrian Evans and grandfather
Patrick Evans are hoping to collect £15,000 to help pay for their memorial
services.

Joel's mum, Suzanne Richards, faces paying for three simultaneous funerals after
they were shot dead by IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui while on holiday in Sousse
with her youngest son Owen, aged 16.

Football coach Andy Hall, who trains referees to professional national standard,
described 19-year-old Joel, from Wednesbury, as a "phenomenal" talent.

"Joel's the same age as my son and they were best friends," he told the
Birmingham Mail.

"I knew his grandad, too.

"I first met Joel two-and-a-half years ago when he started in my referees'
development group.

"In four or five years' time he would have been an elite official, refereeing at
the highest level possible - the Championship and Premier League.

"He was very talented. For a 19-year-old lad to reach the level he had - just
two steps from the football league - is phenomenal.

"He'll be massively missed."

He added: "The money will go to the family. We want to raise at least £15,000 to
pay for the funerals."

Mr Hall's engineering firm, ADI Facilities, is currently working on the new Nosh
and Quaff restaurant in Colmore Row, and the restaurant owners, the Lasan Group,
have pledged to donate all profits from this weekend's Colmore Food Festival to
the cause.

He said: "The last week has been a difficult one for many people but the way
everybody has come together has been tremendous."

Owen was hailed a hero by Tunisian medics after he struggled to help a woman and
his family members lay dead in front of him during the beach massacre.

A minute's silence will be held for victims of the shooting at midday tomorrow
(Friday, July 3).

· To donate to the fund visit http://www.gofundme.com/Joelrichards

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 10:05 PM GMT

Hate preacher on £50K benefits facing deportation for inspiring Tunisian terror
attack

BYLINE: Jerry Lawton

LENGTH: 403 words


A HATE preacher on £50,000-a-year benefits faces deportation from Britain after
inspiring the Tunisian beach massacre.

Hani al-Sibai was one of the "key influencers" of Islamic fanatics who recruited
and trained gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

The 23-year-old Tunisian killed 38 holidaymakers including 30 Brits in Sousse
last month.

Al-Sibai, 54, who described the 7/7 2005 terror attacks in London as a "great
victory", is living in a £1million house in the capital with his wife and five
children.

The preacher has used human rights laws to thwart attempts to deport him for 15
years.

Sibai was named in a 2013 counter terrorism report as one of Tunisian terror
group Ansar al-Sharia's key influencers.

Security services believe the group recruited and trained gunman Rezgui.

Keith Vaz, Home affairs select committee chairman

It was founded by Saifallah Ben Hassine, 49, who was killed in an air strike
last month.

Hassine is said to have plotted the beach massacre from his base in Libya.

Rezgui went there for training shortly before the atrocity.

Al-Sibai has also been linked to ISIS executioner Jihadi John.

Home affairs select committee chairman Keith Vaz, 58, has written to Home
Secretary Theresa May, 58, demanding to know why al-Sibai is still in the UK.

He said: "It is extraordinary that successive governments have been trying but
failing to remove someone who has these worrying links.

"The way he has foiled attempts to remove him is a cause for enormous concern."

Peter Bone, Tory MP for Wellingborough, said: "I expect the Home Secretary to
deal with this urgently. There is a very strong case for him to be deported."

The rent for al-Sibai's four-bedroom home in Hammersmith, west London, is paid
by taxpayers.

He and his wife are estimated to be on more than £48,000 a year in benefits -
almost double the £26,000 cap.

They claim more because both are entitled to disability living allowance.

Asked how he could claim so much, he said: "Don't ask me, ask David Cameron."

The Department for Work and Pensions said: "People who commit, plan and support
acts of terror will be prosecuted and anyone who has been deported or sent to
prison will lose their benefits."

Related articles ISIS runaway teen sent sick 'LOL' text after Tunisia beach
massacre 7/7 bombings: 10 years on but is Britain safe from terror? Horror of
9/11 and 7/7 terror attacks used in pro-Tunisia tourism adverts

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

7/7 survivor: We must stand together to tackle extremism and Islamophobia;
As the landmark anniversary of the terrorist attack approaches the only Muslim
survivor of the 7/7 bombings speaks out

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 828 words


Britain will this week mark the 10th anniversary of the July 7 terrorist
attacks.

Days after observing a minute's silence for the victims of the Tunisia beach
massacre, the country will fall silent again in memory of the 52 people killed
in the atrocity in London a decade ago - an atrocity carried out by four West
Yorkshire men.

The period of reflection - to take place at 11.30am tomorrow - Tuesday - during
a service at St Paul's Cathedral attended by the Duke of York - will be observed
across the capital's public-transport network.

And as the landmark anniversary of the terrorist attack approaches and the
country remembers the harrowing event, the only Muslim survivor of the 7/7
bombings has urged the country to stand together against the growing threats of
extremism and Islamophobia the way it did against terrorism a decade ago.

Sajda Mughal said she has suffered death threats and online abuse because of her
faith since surviving the UK's first suicide bombings at the age of 22, and says
her experience is increasingly echoed by friends, family and colleagues.

And she said the pain, flashbacks and nightmares she regularly experiences have
intensified.

Mrs Mughal, now a mother-of-two from Wood Green, north London,said: "When we
speak to young Muslims they tell us they are experiencing a rise in Islamophobia
and they are feeling disconnected from society because of that.

"Extremism to some degree is fuelled by Islamophobia, young Muslims are telling
us first hand they have experienced it or their family has and that is making
them feel alienated and that leaves some vulnerable to radicalisation.

"What was poignant for me and what stood out (after 7/7) was how Londoners came
together to help everyone that day, regardless of your background, and that is
what I would like to see happen today to tackle the issues of extremism and
Islamophobia we are facing."

"Quite often Islamophobia is down to ignorance, so it's about education. It's
also about people talking to Muslims and finding out more and having an open
dialogue to overcome those misconceptions.

"As we've moved on over the years, we need to be aware, including young people,
about what happened (on 7/7) and what is happening in society now with some
people going over to Syria to join Isis, as well as the rise in Islamophobia, so
we can educate and allow those mindsets to be changed.

"We need to be raising the issue of Islamophobia and that can happen at a young
age."

The four 7/7 bombers led extraordinary double lives as they finalised their plot
to cause mass carnage on London's transport network.

Mohammad Sidique Khan, who killed six people at Edgware Road on the Circle Line,
was the ringleader, recruiting sergeant and main financier of the 7/7 plot.

He grew up in the Beeston area of Leeds but moved to Thornhill, Dewsbury, and
the 30-year-old appeared to be a pillar of the community, steering local youths
away from crime and drugs by organising outdoor activities and helping to set up
a gym in a mosque basement.

Shehzad Tanweer, who killed seven people at Aldgate on the Circle Line, was
Khan's right-hand man in planning and executing the London bombings. Outwardly
he seemed assimilated into British life, working in his father's fish and chip
shop and regularly playing cricket.

However, he underwent a transformation after the 9/11 attacks on the United
States.

Tanweer, 22, came from a relatively well-off family in Beeston and excelled both
in his school work and on the sports field.

He lived near Khan and became friends with him in 1999 when he was about 17. By
2004 the pair were jointly involved in Islamist extremism.

Jermaine Lindsay, who killed 26 people between King's Cross and Russell Square
on the Piccadilly line, was a boy who grew up in Huddersfield.

Lindsay was a Jamaican-born Muslim convert who never made a secret of his
extremist views. He was brought up by his mother in Bradley Mills, Huddersfield,
and was a popular boy at Rawthorpe Junior and High Schools, where he excelled at
sport.

Lindsay, 19, handed out leaflets in support of al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden and
downloaded inflammatory material about the Taliban and the 9/11 attacks in the
school library.

He told one teacher he wanted to fight in Afghanistan and even boasted of
planning to join the British Army so he could kill his fellow soldiers.

Lindsay met his future wife, Samantha Lewthwaite, in an internet chat room
before they got together face-to-face at a Stop The War march in London.

Lewthwaite is now wanted on terrorist offences across the world and has been
dubbed The White Widow.

Hasib Hussain, who killed 13 people on a number 30 bus in Tavistock Square, was
the youngest member of the terror cell at 18. He was an unexceptional teenager
who had an ordinary upbringing in the Holbeck area of Leeds.

He raised concern among his teachers when shortly after the 9/11 attacks he
passed two fellow pupils a note which said "You're next" in a reference to the
terrorist atrocities in the US.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 8:54 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Is this the SECOND killer in Sousse beach massacre?

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 587 words


A BRITISH tourist who witnessed the horrifying Tunisia beach massacre has
claimed this picture could be a SECOND gunman shooting at holidaymakers.

MB

A drawing of another potential gunman

Jim Stevenson is adamant crazed Seifeddine Rezgui did not act alone in the
deadly terror attack, which left 38 tourists - including 30 Britons - dead.

Mr Stevenson, from Glasgow, has described the moment he saw a
Kalashnikov-wielding terrorist, wearing a light-grey T-shirt and camouflage
shorts, shoot dead a woman as she walked down the stairs at the holiday resort
in Sousse.

UK-based anti-terror police are now working on a description given to them by
him, according to Scotland's Sunday Mail.

His claims support the theory being probed by police that there were three
gunmen invoked in the deadly massacre on June 26.

Mr Stevenson said the gunman "turned and shot an older lady who was coming down
the stairs and she fell down dead".

He added: "There was a guy we saw who had dark, possibly ­camouflage-style
shorts who was shooting around the pool area.

"I also spoke to people who saw a man throw a ­grenade and they spoke of someone
wearing red shorts. From this, it appears there were three involved in the
attack."

Related articles  Britain faces BIGGEST threat from terrorism in a decade, warns
MI5  British group welcomes hate cleric Abu Qatada just hours after...

Mr Stevenson was interviewed by police at Manchester Airport when he arrived
back from Tunisia, where he had been holidaying with his wife Karen, 90,
16-year-old son Mitchell, and mother Nessie, 85.

He said: "I'm as sure as I can be that there were two, and possibly three,
involved.

"My son and I saw the one who had on grey shorts and a grey T-shirt. He was
carrying a Kalashnikov.

"We saw the photographs of Rezgui afterwards - and he definitely wasn't the
person we saw.

"Rezgui had on black clothing - the man we saw did not."

The Islamic State terror group has claimed responsibility for the attack in
which three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one
Russian were also murdered.

And several British witnesses have also prevoiusly claimed Rezgui, 23, did not
act alone.

The crazed gunman was killed after he massacred innocent holidaymakers as they
sunbathed on the beach, while dressed in black shorts and a T-shirt.

MB

At least one other gunman is thought to have taken part in the brutal attack

Two ex-police officers have told how they saw a third gunman.

Steve Johnson, 65 and Michael Perry, 66, spotted a gunman who they insist wasn't
Rezgui.

Survivor Kirsty Murray, 35, of Braintree in Essex said she was blasted in the
leg by a man with a pistol and not the Kalashnikov carried by Rezgui.

Twelve suspects have been arrested in connection with the horrifying terror
attack.

Tunisian authorities are still hunting two more men suspected of training in a
Libyan terror camp with crazed Rezgui, who was believed to be high on cocaine at
the time of the bloody massacre.

Photos of Mohamed bin Abdallah, 24, and 28-year-old Rafikhe Tayari were posted
on the internet in a bid to trace them.

Met Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for
counter terrorism, asked anyone who witnessed the attack in Tunisia to get in
touch.

He added: "I would like to appeal to anyone who was in Sousse and witnessed the
attack to contact us on 0800 789 321 to help with the investigation, if they
haven't done so already.

"We have also set up a dedicated email addresses for people to send any images
and information that may assist."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 4:39 PM GMT

7/7 bombings anniversary: Ten years after the terror attacks, is Britain an
altered state?;
The bombings killed 52 people and injured more than 700

BYLINE: Paul Gallagher

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 2731 words


When British youths detonated four bombs in London during the rush hour on
Thursday 7 July 2005, they killed 52 and injured more than 700. They also
exposed tensions in communities, and shortcomings in communications and
security.

Here, five key figures of power or influence explain the consequences of the
attack:

Mike Brown

MD, London Underground & Rail

<em class="bold" />Mike Brown was Chief Operating Officer and in charge of
day-to-day running of the underground network on 7/7. He quickly left a meeting
at Canary Wharf and, after getting in stuck in traffic at Wapping, bumped into a
police officer he knew who commandeered a police boat and got him up the river
to Westminster, back to his control room.

The entire network was evacuated in less than two hours, yet early on the day
itself Mr Brown made a decision that he would have to attempt to run the network
the next morning.

"Obviously not the parts where the track had been severed," he said. "But as far
as possible, around 85 per cent of the network, I wanted to get running again.
Not many people did travel [on 8 July] but it was really important to me, and
important both for our staff and for London, that our response was getting
things back operational as quickly as possible."

Certain radio communication "black spots" existed at the time,  but that has
changed. "We were already in the process of introducing a new digital airway
system, Connect, across our entire network. It's totally different in its
reliability, coverage and effectiveness, just much better. We also worked with
the Home Office and the emergency services to ensure that their radios, by
deploying something called Airwave, work on our estate. So there is no issue now
with emergency services talking to each other in what can be quite challenging
circumstances."

Connect was in full use by 2008. The two systems give every Tube staff member a
personal radio and the ability to contact any other. They also allow the
broadcast of centralised messages from control rooms to any number of staff
across the network. Today there are no gaps in coverage above or below ground.

The upgraded systems work using "cells" that provide the coverage below ground.
There is enough overlap between cells that Brown is confident that the system
would work following another 7/7-style attack, because even if one cell was
destroyed, the others either side of it would provide enough coverage to fill
the gap. Staff training has also evolved significantly.

"Actually, the response of our staff was pretty incredible on the day. We have
people still working for us who literally had people dying in their arms. But we
have evolved. Station supervisors receive basic first aid training and we also
have many staff around the network who do a wider first aid course as well, in
their own time, and we support and encourage that."

Mr Brown says that there is more staff on platforms now than ever before, partly
due to running a more frequent train service. A lot of time and effort has also
been spent working with British Transport Police in getting a joint control
facility and new control room at Southwark. Another hub takes all the CCTV
images from underground stations and allows staff to control which images they
can look at. "That's a huge difference from where we were 10 years ago, because
then there were only a very few stations that you could access from the control
room. Now that's much more widespread."

David Videcette

Then anti-terror detective

<em class="bold" />David Videcette had been with the Met's Anti-Terrorist branch
for just six months prior to 7/7. Most of his team were either on holiday or
working at the G8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, looking after Tony Blair and
other foreign dignitaries.

"Although I've seen plenty of bodies in my 20 years as a police officer, I
wasn't used to bombings that aimed for mass casualties," he says. "The idea that
it was British-born people killing other people on home soil - that they wanted
to target fellow countrymen - was incredibly distressing. Before 7/7 it hadn't
really been considered an offence to go abroad and train in a training camp or
fight against Allied forces. There was a policy shift during the investigation
as we realised what [7/7 bomber] Mohammed Sidique Khan had done, and all the
things he and his friends had been involved with [attending terrorist training
camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan] in the lead up to the bombings. There really
was a big problem which had to be sorted out."

Following the new anti-terrorism legislation, the UK started to look at the
radicalisation process and to stop fundamentalists preaching openly in the
street and advocating things like murder. "There was a big shift to shut these
views down. The idea was to make the UK less of an attractive place as a base to
preach your radical views from."

Mr Videcette, now Head of Security for an international businessman, witnessed
the quick increase in manpower within his counter-terrorism team, going up from
a team of 60 in July 2005 to 120 within a year. Today there are around 3,000
staff in Counter Terrorism Command. In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7
London bombings

"The creation of regional counter-terrorism hubs has been an enormous success,"
he says. "The relationship between MI5 and the police is also much better now -
you have an embedded police person in the security service and vice versa. It
was quite fragmented before, but now the regional counter terrorism hubs give
you a greater capacity for investigation across the country. The flow of
information between the organisations is much better."

The 7/7 investigation also had a great personal impact. Mr Videcette's youngest
daughter was born the previous month yet the investigation took over his life,
as a lot of his time was spent in the bombers' home towns of West Yorkshire and
investigating the bomb factory sites where the explosives were made.

"Over the next five years I lost contact with a lot of family and friends. I
lived the case 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It was my life.  I felt an
incredible drive to help find out what had happened for the sake of the 52
families who had lost loved ones. They became more important than my own."

After 7/7, focus turned on similar attacks, but one thing changed all that.
"Then the Mumbai attack happened [in 2008] and a lot of the terrorism since then
has followed that pattern: terrorists shooting people in public places. These
attacks are much less sophisticated, but they still have the same level of
gravity."

Shami Chakrabarti

Director, Liberty

<em class="bold" />With emotions running high just a few hours after the
bombings, one Labour MP said that Ms Chakrabarti's stated opposition to ID cards
and detention without trial had "come home to roost".

"However, I had much more positive experiences the next day," she recalls.
"Charles Clarke went on Today and gave a very calm, statesmanlike interview
where he was asked if identity cards would have prevented the bombings. He said,
'No, they wouldn't'. It was a very apolitical, stoic performance which I think
was very positive. In the month after the bombings I remember stoicism, I
remember unity. Then it all got busted up by Tony Blair."

On 5 August, Blair laid out the government's 12-point plan to tackle terrorism,
and among his proposals were: amending the Human Rights Act to allow, if
necessary, the deportation of Muslim clerics; banning  some Islamic groups such
as Hizb ut-Tahrir; and extending control orders to British nationals advocating
terrorism. It signalled a turning point in British post-war liberalism.

Read more: Peace Journey to retrace 7/7 bombers' routeFour emergency workers who
saved lives recall 7/7Only Muslim survivor of 7/7 warns against Islamophobia

Says Ms Chakrabarti : "It was not inevitable that a politician should respond in
this way. He waits a month then gives a press conference? Not even a speech to
parliament. Contrast that to Norway's response to its attack in 2011 [when
Anders Breivik killed 77 people] from its Prime Minister and you see this type
of reaction to an atrocity does not have to be inevitable.

"Blair was making political capital out of an atrocity. Then we had [the
then-Met Commissioner] Ian Blair saying that he was 'very pleased' with the
proposals and the two Blairs began arguing for 90-day detention without charge,
so the police got politicised."

In the end, several of Tony Blair's proposals were quietly shelved, while the
90-day plan was defeated when 49 Labour MPs rebelled against the government. The
most controversial aspect of the Terrorism Act of 2006, though - a direct
consequence of 7/7 - was the increase in the number of days terrorism suspects
could be held without charge: from 14 to 28.

Ms Chakrabarti says that she never had a problem with some of the new
legislation, such as making it an offence to travel abroad with the intention of
attending a terrorism training camp. "But there was a lot of other stuff which
was just pure politics. What Blair did was to divide people, to scare moderate
Muslims into feeling that they were going to be treated as the enemy within. Now
10 years later there will be some kids who have remembered how their parents and
families felt in the days after Tony Blair's speech."

In her opinion,  the country is "undoubtedly" still living with the ripple
effects. "Today we hear about proposals to get university lecturers and teachers
to spy on their pupils." But while "we still live in a relatively safe society",
she says, "it's my job to be critical of showboating, grandstanding and
dog-whistle politics, which probably make us less safe because of the divisions
they create."

Gavin Shuker

Labour MP for Luton South

<em class="bold" />The four bombers, Hasib Hussain, Germaine Lindsay, Mohammad
Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer, were captured on CCTV at Luton station at
7.21am on 7 July 2005. Images of the quartet with their large rucksacks of
explosives went around the world the following day. Having been born and lived
there all his life, Gavin Shuker, MP for Luton South since 2010, feared for his
hometown.

"At that point [when I saw the images] my heart sank because Luton has often
been linked to extremism, justifiably and sometimes unjustifiably. I was really
concerned about how the vast majority of residents in the town would feel to be
associated [with the bombers] and the last 10 years has really borne out what I
suspected at the time - which is that we would end up with a community that was
more fearful on both sides, along a Muslim and non-Muslim divide.

"The link to 7/7 was at best tangential in that [the bombers] had to choose a
train station that came through Luton. There was a real effect early on in that
the Muslim community in particular felt caught between a defensive posture and
also, particularly among younger people, a sense in which people's identity
became more important to them. 7/7 switched a lot of people onto foreign policy
and the frustration that normal avenues of politics wouldn't convey their views
properly within it."

Almost one in four people in Luton is Muslim, according to the 2011 census which
stated that Luton had become one of three towns outside of London where white
Britons were now a minority: 45 per cent of the population.

In March 2009 about a dozen anti-war protesters dressed in Islamic clothing
railed against the homecoming parade for 200 Royal Anglian Regiment soldiers in
Luton. They held placards calling the soldiers "cowards, killers, extremists". A
group of residents responded to the ugly incident and others like it by forming
the United Peoples of Luton, which soon became the English Defence League.

"7/7 was a very overt expression of Islamic radicalisation and the EDL is a very
radical expression of far-right tendencies," says Shuker, "but both of them have
been around in our DNA for some time. When the EDL was born, if you listen to
those that created it - allegedly because people were protesting against
soldiers that served in Iraq - you can't divorce our foreign policy from
domestic action. The stated reasons of the 7/7 bombers was Britain's role in
Iraq - that is completely unjustifiable but we do have to listen to why people
are saying it. All these issues are linked."

Even since he became MP for Luton South, Shuker has had to deal with the far
right coming to Luton protesting or, as he puts it, "stirring up religious
hatred at a cost of tens of millions of pounds, based on the premise that Luton
is a 'hotbed' of radicalisation".

Says Shuker: "Actually, our experience is very different from that. I spend most
of my time talking to parents who are terrified their kids are going to get
radicalised. 7/7 really ushered in that period where both communities felt very
much under siege."

Dr Shuja Shafi

Secretary-general, Muslim Council of GB

<em class="bold" />"People were affected by the bombings irrespective of
nationality, religion, class, creed or colour," says Mr Shafi. "That something
like that happened in a country like ours was a really shocking experience.
After the initial horror, what is then apparent is that Muslims did it - but it
affected the lives of all Londoners in one way or another. Muslims were no
exception."

The youngest victim was 20-year-old Shahara Islam, a bank cashier of Bangladeshi
origin who was described as a typical Londoner as well as a devout Muslim.
Another victim was Atique Sharifi, 24, who had fled Afghanistan to escape
Taliban violence three years earlier, having lost both his parents in the civil
war.

"What it brought home was the horrific nature of a thing like that which does
not discriminate, a completely un-humanitarian, cruel and calculated act. The
aftermath, where some people have associated the bombings with Islam, has
certainly had an impact [on community relations], you can't really deny that."

A report by the EU's monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, published in
November 2005, confirmed that in the immediate period after the attacks there
was "a temporary and disturbing increase in faith-related hate crimes across the
UK".  By 22 July the MCB received 1,000 hate messages. Minority groups,
particularly British Muslims, felt vulnerable and feared for their safety.
However, the report said that the longer term perspective was more hopeful,
citing "the strong stand taken by political and community leaders both in
condemning the attacks and defending the legitimate rights of Muslims", which
saw a swift reduction in such incidents.

Mr Shafi continues: "One good thing that has come out is how much people have
come to know that Muslims are part of society and how much they want to be part
of society. Even now, the vast majority of the British community, and different
groups, have an excellent relationship. What we are talking about is the
exception, so we have to put those things into context."

One criticism over the years has been that Muslim communities and their imams
should have done more to root out extremism or potential extremists in their
midst, a view Mr Shafi does not accept as fair.

"What we have found is people are actually not getting radicalised through imams
or mosques. There is obviously always room for improvement, but what happened
was a completely new field. [Radicalisation of the 7/7/ bombers] took place on
the fringes and we have to learn how to tackle that. It's a challenge for
everyone. Imams have to be aware of this but what they can do is to keep an open
mind and they are doing as much as possible. We need to see where this
radicalisation is coming from. We have a combined responsibility, with the
police and other services, to exchange information so no one community is
demonised.

"What is very important is preventing youngsters and guarding against
radicalisation - but the measures have to be fair and not seen as spying on a
particular community, for example."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 4:38 PM GMT

7/7 bombings timeline: How the day unfolded;
There were 52 victims in the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 632 words


This is how events unfolded on Thursday July 7 2005, the day four suicide
bombers brought terror to London.

3.58am: A light blue Nissan Micra hired by Shehzad Tanweer, 22, and thought to
have had Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, and Hasib Hussain, 18, as passengers is
caught on CCTV in Hyde Park Road, Leeds, before joining the M1.

5.07am: Jermaine Lindsay, 19, arrives at Luton station car park in a red Fiat
Brava.

6.49am: The Micra arrives at Luton and parks next to the Brava. All four men get
out and appear to move items between the two boots before putting on rucksacks.

7.15am: The men enter Luton station and go through the ticket barriers heading
to the platform for the Thameslink train to London King's Cross.

7.40am: The train sets off.

8.23am: The train arrives at King's Cross, slightly late after a delay further
up the line. The four head in the direction of the London Underground system.

8.30am: Four men fitting their descriptions are seen hugging before splitting
up. Khan boards a west-bound Circle Line train, Tanweer an east-bound Circle
Line train, and Lindsay a south-bound Piccadilly Line train. Hussain also
appears to walk towards the Piccadilly Line entrance.

8.50am: Three bombs explode within a minute on London Underground trains.

Liverpool Street: Seconds after leaving the platform the eastbound Circle Line
train is blown up by Shehzad Tanweer - almost certainly in the second carriage
from the front. Eight people die including Tanweer, with 171 injured.

Edgware Road: The westbound Circle Line train is blown up by Mohammad Sidique
Khan. who is also in the second carriage from the front. Seven people including
Khan are killed, and 163 injured.

Between King's Cross and Russell Square: Jermaine Lindsay blows himself up in
the packed front carriage, killing 27 people including himself and injuring more
than 340. In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

8.55am: Hussain walks out of King's Cross Underground station and tries
unsuccessfully to contact the other three.

9.19am: A man thought to be Hussain is seen on a bus to Euston, from where he is
believed to have boarded the Number 30 bus.

9.30am: Cobra, the Government's national crisis management facility, is
activated in response to the explosions.

9.47am: Hussain detonates his bomb on the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square,
killing 14 people including himself, and injuring more than 110.

10.21am: Scotland Yard confirms there have been "multiple explosions" in London.

Noon: Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking at the G8 summit in Gleneagles, says:
"It is reasonably clear there have been a series of terrorist attacks in
London."

Afternoon: There are subsequent statements from Home Secretary Charles Clarke in
the House of Commons, and London Mayor Ken Livingstone in Singapore with the
2012 Olympic bid team. Mr Blair returns to London during the afternoon.

5.50pm: United Nations Security Council unanimously condemns the attacks.

10.19pm: Hussain's family report him missing.

11.40pm: Among several items reportedly found by a police exhibits officer are
cards and personal items in the name of "Sidique Khan" and "Mr S Tanweer" at
Aldgate.

Read more: Peace Journey to retrace 7/7 bombers' routeFour emergency workers who
saved lives recall 7/7Only Muslim survivor of 7/7 warns against Islamophobia

Press Association

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 6, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Ten years after the terror attacks, is Britain an altered state?;
SPECIAL REPORT 7/7: THE AFTERMATH OF A TRAGEDY When British youths detonated
four bombs in London during the rush hour, they killed 52 and injured more than
700. They also exposed tensions in communities, and shortcomings in
communications and security. PAUL GALLAGHER talks to five key figures of power
or influence about the consequences

BYLINE: PAUL GALLAGHER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2626 words


THE TRANSPORT CHIEF

MIKE BROWN

MD, LONDON UNDERGROUND & RAIL

There is no issue now with emergency services talking to each other

Mike Brown was Chief Operating Officer and in charge of day-to-day running of
the underground network on 7/7. He quickly left a meeting at Canary Wharf and,
after getting in stuck in traffic at Wapping, bumped into a police officer he
knew who commandeered a police boat and got him up the river to Westminster,
back to his control room.

The entire network was evacuated in less than two hours, yet early on the day
itself Mr Brown made a decision that he would have to attempt to run the network
the next morning.

"Obviously not the parts where the track had been severed," he said. "But as far
as possible, around 85 per cent of the network, I wanted to get running again.
Not many people did travel [on 8 July] but it was really important to me, and
important both for our staff and for London, that our response was getting
things back operational as quickly as possible."

Certain radio communication "black spots" existed at the time, but that has
changed. "We were already in the process of introducing a new digital airway
system, Connect, across our entire network. It's totally different in its
reliability, coverage and effectiveness, just much better. We also worked with
the Home Office and the emergency services to ensure that their radios, by
deploying something called Airwave, work on our estate. So there is no issue now
with emergency services talking to each other in what can be quite challenging
circumstances."

Connect was in full use by 2008. The two systems give every Tube staff member a
personal radio and the ability to contact any other. They also allow the
broadcast of centralised messages from control rooms to any number of staff
across the network. Today there are no gaps in coverage above or below ground.

The upgraded systems work using "cells" that provide the coverage below ground.
There is enough overlap between cells that Brown is confident that the system
would work following another 7/7-style attack, because even if one cell was
destroyed, the others either side of it would provide enough coverage to fill
the gap. Staff training has also evolved significantly.

"Actually, the response of our staff was pretty incredible on the day. We have
people still working for us who literally had people dying in their arms. But we
have evolved. Station supervisors receive basic first aid training and we also
have many staff around the network who do a wider first aid course as well, in
their own time, and we support and encourage that."

Mr Brown says that there is more staff on platforms now than ever before, partly
due to running a more frequent train service. A lot of time and effort has also
been spent working with British Transport Police in getting a joint control
facility and new control room at Southwark. Another hub takes all the CCTV
images from underground stations and allows staff to control which images they
can look at. "That's a huge difference from where we were 10 years ago, because
then there were only a very few stations that you could access from the control
room. Now that's much more widespread."

THE SECURITY EXPERT

DAVID VIDECETTE

THEN-ANTI-TERROR DETECTIVE

After 7/7, we became focused on similar attacks, but then Mumbai happened...

David Videcette had been with the Met's Anti-Terrorist branch for just six
months prior to 7/7. Most of his team were either on holiday or working at the
G8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, looking after Tony Blair and other foreign
dignitaries.

"Although I've seen plenty of bodies in my 20 years as a police officer, I
wasn't used to bombings that aimed for mass casualties," he says. "The idea that
it was British-born people killing other people on home soil - that they wanted
to target fellow countrymen - was incredibly distressing. Before 7/7 it hadn't
really been considered an offence to go abroad and train in a training camp or
fight against Allied forces. There was a policy shift during the investigation
as we realised what [7/7 bomber] Mohammed Sidique Khan had done, and all the
things he and his friends had been involved with [attending terrorist training
camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan] in the lead up to the bombings. There really
was a big problem which had to be sorted out."

Following the new anti-terrorism legislation, the UK started to look at the
radicalisation process and to stop fundamentalists preaching openly in the
street and advocating things like murder. "There was a big shift to shut these
views down. The idea was to make the UK less of an attractive place as a base to
preach your radical views from."

Mr Videcette, now Head of Security for an international businessman, witnessed
the quick increase in manpower within his counter-terrorism team, going up from
a team of 60 in July 2005 to 120 within a year. Today there are around 3,000
staff in Counter Terrorism Command.

"The creation of regional counter-terrorism hubs has been an enormous success,"
he says. "The relationship between MI5 and the police is also much better now -
you have an embedded police person in the security service and vice versa. It
was quite fragmented before, but now the regional counter terrorism hubs give
you a greater capacity for investigation across the country. The flow of
information between the organisations is much better."

The 7/7 investigation also had a great personal impact. Mr Videcette's youngest
daughter was born the previous month yet the investigation took over his life,
as a lot of his time was spent in the bombers' home towns of West Yorkshire and
investigating the bomb factory sites where the explosives were made.

"Over the next five years I lost contact with a lot of family and friends. I
lived the case 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It was my life. I felt an
incredible drive to help find out what had happened for the sake of the 52
families who had lost loved ones. They became more important than my own."

After 7/7, focus turned on similar attacks, but one thing changed all that.
"Then the Mumbai attack happened [in 2008] and a lot of the terrorism since then
has followed that pattern: terrorists shooting people in public places. These
attacks are much less sophisticated, but they still have the same level of
gravity."

THE CAMPAIGNER

SHAMI CHAKRABARTI

DiRECTOR, LIBERTY

Ten years on, there will be Muslim kids who remember how their parents felt
after Blair's reaction

With emotions running high just a few hours after the bombings, one Labour MP
said that Ms Chakrabarti's stated opposition to ID cards and detention without
trial had "come home to roost".

"However, I had much more positive experiences the next day," she recalls.
"Charles Clarke went on Today and gave a very calm, statesmanlike interview
where he was asked if identity cards would have prevented the bombings. He said,
'No, they wouldn't'. It was a very apolitical, stoic performance which I think
was very positive. In the month after the bombings I remember stoicism, I
remember unity. Then it all got busted up by Tony Blair."

On 5 August, Blair laid out the government's 12-point plan to tackle terrorism,
and among his proposals were: amending the Human Rights Act to allow, if
necessary, the deportation of Muslim clerics; banning some Islamic groups such
as Hizb ut-Tahrir; and extending control orders to British nationals advocating
terrorism. It signalled a turning point in British post-war liberalism.

Says Ms Chakrabarti : "It was not inevitable that a politician should respond in
this way. He waits a month then gives a press conference? Not even a speech to
parliament. Contrast that to Norway's response to its attack in 2011 [when
Anders Breivik killed 77 people] from its Prime Minister and you see this type
of reaction to an atrocity does not have to be inevitable.

"Blair was making political capital out of an atrocity. Then we had [the
then-Met Commissioner] Ian Blair saying that he was 'very pleased' with the
proposals and the two Blairs began arguing for 90-day detention without charge,
so the police got politicised."

In the end, several of Tony Blair's proposals were quietly shelved, while the
90-day plan was defeated when 49 Labour MPs rebelled against the government. The
most controversial aspect of the Terrorism Act of 2006, though - a direct
consequence of 7/7 - was the increase in the number of days terrorism suspects
could be held without charge: from 14 to 28.

Ms Chakrabarti says that she never had a problem with some of the new
legislation, such as making it an offence to travel abroad with the intention of
attending a terrorism training camp. "But there was a lot of other stuff which
was just pure politics. What Blair did was to divide people, to scare moderate
Muslims into feeling that they were going to be treated as the enemy within. Now
10 years later there will be some kids who have remembered how their parents and
families felt in the days after Tony Blair's speech."

In her opinion, the country is "undoubtedly" still living with the ripple
effects. "Today we hear about proposals to get university lecturers and teachers
to spy on their pupils." But while "we still live in a relatively safe society",
she says, "it's my job to be critical of showboating, grandstanding and
dog-whistle politics, which probably make us less safe because of the divisions
they create."

THE MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT

GAVIN SHUKER

LABOUR MP FOR LUTON SOUTH

I talk to parents who are terrified that their children are going to get
radicalised

The four bombers, Hasib Hussain, Germaine Lindsay, Mohammad Sidique Khan and
Shehzad Tanweer, were captured on CCTV at Luton station at 7.21am on 7 July
2005. Images of the quartet with their large rucksacks of explosives went around
the world the following day. Having been born and lived there all his life,
Gavin Shuker, MP for Luton South since 2010, feared for his hometown.

"At that point [when I saw the images] my heart sank because Luton has often
been linked to extremism, justifiably and sometimes unjustifiably. I was really
concerned about how the vast majority of residents in the town would feel to be
associated [with the bombers] and the last 10 years has really borne out what I
suspected at the time - which is that we would end up with a community that was
more fearful on both sides, along a Muslim and non-Muslim divide.

"The link to 7/7 was at best tangential in that [the bombers] had to choose a
train station that came through Luton. There was a real effect early on in that
the Muslim community in particular felt caught between a defensive posture and
also, particularly among younger people, a sense in which people's identity
became more important to them. 7/7 switched a lot of people onto foreign policy
and the frustration that normal avenues of politics wouldn't convey their views
properly within it."

Almost one in four people in Luton is Muslim, according to the 2011 census which
stated that Luton had become one of three towns outside of London where white
Britons were now a minority: 45 per cent of the population.

In March 2009 about a dozen anti-war protesters dressed in Islamic clothing
railed against the homecoming parade for 200 Royal Anglian Regiment soldiers in
Luton. They held placards calling the soldiers "cowards, killers, extremists". A
group of residents responded to the ugly incident and others like it by forming
the United Peoples of Luton, which soon became the English Defence League.

"7/7 was a very overt expression of Islamic radicalisation and the EDL is a very
radical expression of far-right tendencies," says Shuker, "but both of them have
been around in our DNA for some time. When the EDL was born, if you listen to
those that created it - allegedly because people were protesting against
soldiers that served in Iraq - you can't divorce our foreign policy from
domestic action. The stated reasons of the 7/7 bombers was Britain's role in
Iraq - that is completely unjustifiable but we do have to listen to why people
are saying it. All these issues are linked."

Even since he became MP for Luton South, Shuker has had to deal with the far
right coming to Luton protesting or, as he puts it, "stirring up religious
hatred at a cost of tens of millions of pounds, based on the premise that Luton
is a 'hotbed' of radicalisation".

Says Shuker: "Actually, our experience is very different from that. I spend most
of my time talking to parents who are terrified their kids are going to get
radicalised. 7/7 really ushered in that period where both communities felt very
much under siege."

THE COMMUNITY LEADER

DR SHUJA SHAFI

SECRETARY-GENERAL, MUSLIM COUNCIL OF GB

People are not being radicalised through imams or mosques. It is happening on
the fringes

"People were affected by the bombings irrespective of nationality, religion,
class, creed or colour," says Mr Shafi. "That something like that happened in a
country like ours was a really shocking experience. After the initial horror,
what is then apparent is that Muslims did it - but it affected the lives of all
Londoners in one way or another. Muslims were no exception."

The youngest victim was 20-year-old Shahara Islam, a bank cashier of Bangladeshi
origin who was described as a typical Londoner as well as a devout Muslim.
Another victim was Atique Sharifi, 24, who had fled Afghanistan to escape
Taliban violence three years earlier, having lost both his parents in the civil
war.

"What it brought home was the horrific nature of a thing like that which does
not discriminate, a completely un-humanitarian, cruel and calculated act. The
aftermath, where some people have associated the bombings with Islam, has
certainly had an impact [on community relations], you can't really deny that."

A report by the EU's monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, published in
November 2005, confirmed that in the immediate period after the attacks there
was "a temporary and disturbing increase in faith-related hate crimes across the
UK". By 22 July the MCB received 1,000 hate messages. Minority groups,
particularly British Muslims, felt vulnerable and feared for their safety.
However, the report said that the longer term perspective was more hopeful,
citing "the strong stand taken by political and community leaders both in
condemning the attacks and defending the legitimate rights of Muslims", which
saw a swift reduction in such incidents.

Mr Shafi continues: "One good thing that has come out is how much people have
come to know that Muslims are part of society and how much they want to be part
of society. Even now, the vast majority of the British community, and different
groups, have an excellent relationship. What we are talking about is the
exception, so we have to put those things into context."

One criticism over the years has been that Muslim communities and their imams
should have done more to root out extremism or potential extremists in their
midst, a view Mr Shafi does not accept as fair.

"What we have found is people are actually not getting radicalised through imams
or mosques. There is obviously always room for improvement, but what happened
was a completely new field. [Radicalisation of the 7/7/ bombers] took place on
the fringes and we have to learn how to tackle that. It's a challenge for
everyone. Imams have to be aware of this but what they can do is to keep an open
mind and they are doing as much as possible. We need to see where this
radicalisation is coming from. We have a combined responsibility, with the
police and other services, to exchange information so no one community is
demonised.

"What is very important is preventing youngsters and guarding against
radicalisation - but the measures have to be fair and not seen as spying on a
particular community, for example."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 4:35 PM GMT

The provocative images of 7/7 bombings and 9/11 it's hoped will prevent a
Tunisia tourism boycott in wake of terror attack

BYLINE: BECKY PEMBERTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words



     ·    A 'would you stop visiting' campaign was launched by a firm in Tunisia
     ·    It showed images of terror attacks in Western capitals such as 9/11
     ·    It is urging tourists to not give up on Tunisia following the massacre
     ·    36 people were murdered in Sousse last month, including 30 Britons


These are the vivid images one Tunisian marketing expert hopes will persuade
tourists to carry on visiting his country.

The 'would you stop visiting' advertising project includes graphic images of New
York's 9/11 attack, the 7/7 London bombings and a 'Je suis Charlie' poster
designed after the massacre at Charlie Hebdo's office in Paris, along with the
caption 'Support Tunisia - Land of Peace.'

The campaign, sparked from the attack in Sousse over a week ago which saw an
Islamist gunman kill 39 people, has received both praise and criticism.

Scroll down for video

The creator of the campaign, Selim Ben Hadj Yahia, who works for PR firm
Ramdam.in, reportedly said he posted the images on Facebook in the hope they
spoke to 'Tunisia's friends around the world' in 'the shock and sadness' of the
Sousse attack.

Many of the comments on the post were in support of Yahia's idea, but others say
say it is unfair to group the attacks together and they are not comparable as
the Tunisian shootings were aimed at tourists.

Facebook user Amin Khechine said: 'This is a beautiful idea of communication it
is partly a good intention.

'But when we have tourists who are specially targeted and a police who clearly
is not yet in ability to defend them properly in the light of all their
shortcomings, such a campaign encouraging tourists to continue to come, seems to
me still premature.'

Lilia Achouri agreed commenting on the post: 'The problem is that tourists are
covered in Tunisia which is not the case elsewhere.'

However Emira Ammar said on the Facebook post: 'I agree with the concept which I
hope internet users will react in a positive way and it will create a good
buzz.'

Med Amine Torkhani also supported Yahia's concept saying: 'Very good
initiative.'

The tourism industry had been recovering after the Arab Spring unrest, and
Tunisia had become a popular lower-cost beach holiday spot for Europeans.

Last year, 2.8 million travelled there, edging closer towards the 3.8 million
level seen in 2010 before the uprising, according to statistics.

Even though no official UK travel warning for the resorts has been issued,
travel companies including Thomson and First Choice have flown back almost 6,000
tourists from Tunisia on 40 flights over last week.

They have cancelled all holidays to Tunisia until July 9 and are offering the
opportunity to change holidays free of charge or full refunds for those wishing
to cancel.

For those who have holidays booked to Tunisia later this summer, the companies
have waived fees to change, and are offering discounts on an extra 15 flights
until the end of October to destinations in Spain, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Greece.

Industry experts have said Westerners staying away from Tunisia for security
reasons may be unwilling to switch to countries such as Turkey, which borders
war-torn Syria, and Egypt, where there has been social and political unrest in
recent years.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 10:54 PM GMT

Victim of 7/7 bombing buried close to Tunisia hotel attack after terrorism
haunts his family;
Ihab Slimane was murdered in the King's Cross blast and is buried just half an
hour from the Tunisian beach where 30 Britons were killed last month

BYLINE: By Tom Parry

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 557 words


The evil terrorism that killed student Ihab Slimane on 7/7 has come back to
haunt his grieving dad Mohamed.

For Ihab, 24, murdered in the King's Cross blast, is buried just half an hour
from the Tunisian beach where 30 Britons were killed last month.

It is in this tranquil, white-walled cemetery overlooking the Mediterranean that
his devout Muslim parents - Tunisian exiles who settled in the French city of
Lyon - wanted their son to be buried after he was taken from them in 2005.

But the recent atrocity in Sousse has brought sad memories back to the surface
for Ihab's dad Mohamed.

And in another tragic twist, Tunisian Mohamed, 64, runs a driving school in
Lyon, France, close to where an Islamic State-inspired beheading happened on the
same day.

He is preparing for an unhappy pilgrimage to London to mark the 10th anniversary
of the atrocity.

Speaking for the first time since the 2005 atrocity in London, Mohamed described
the perpetrators of all three attacks as "barbaric savages".

"What has happened to British people in my own country Tunisia has really
shocked me," he said. "Tunisia is a peaceful country, a beautiful place to be.

"Just like my son, the British victims on the beach were completely innocent;
they were easy targets who just wanted to spend some quality time in a wonderful
country.

"The perpetrators should not be allowed to exist, in Tunisia or in Britain.

"I last went to see Ihab's grave two months ago. As ever, it was horrible. I was
very emotional. I talk to him when I am there."

Student Ihab was in London for the summer to perfect his English, "the language
of Shakespeare" as his father says.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

He was working at a French restaurant in the West End when he died.

After graduating in Grenoble, he planned to return to his studies and his
girlfriend at the end of August.

At mum Amna's request, he is in his parents' hometown of Lamta, just three miles
from the popular tourist resort of Monastir.

Surrounded by palm trees and Juniper bushes, the date of his death is the only
clue that he was a victim of 7/7, beneath his name and date of birth.

There is a tribute in Arabic on the white marble plinth which is situated right
next to its perimeter wall.

Ihab's gravestone is in the last line of hundreds in the picturesque town across
the bay from Monastir.

"It still causes me a lot of pain and sadness," Mr Slimane added.

"The thought of my son comes back to me all the time, every day, every moment of
the day. I do not believe it will ever stop.

"On the day of the attacks, I kept calling Ihab on his mobile. As soon as I
realised he wasn't replying, I was immediately scared that he might be among the
victims.

"It was unlike him not to respond. I got a ticket for a flight to London for
some information.

"I will never forget those days. The sadness I felt was so intense."

"I don't blame the young men who did this," he continued.

"I think they were brainwashed. I blame the people who planted those ideas in
their minds. I am a Muslim and what they are doing has nothing to do with
Islamic beliefs.

"They have no idea how to love others; I feel sorry for them. They have no
desire to live.

"They want to take us back to the Stone Age. They are barbaric savages. I cannot
believe a human being would want to do that."

President Hollande speaks after the horrific Grenoble beheading

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 5:28 PM GMT

A Song For Jenny: Twitter praises Emily Watson's incredibly emotional
performance in 7/7 bombings BBC drama;
The 48-year-old actress portrayed Julie Nicholson, the mother of 24-year-old
Jenny who died in the London terrorist attack

BYLINE: By James Leyfield

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


Emily Watson has been heavily praised for her emotional portrayal in last
night's A Song For Jenny.

The BBC One drama, a 10th anniversary tribute to the victims of the 52 victims
of the London bombings, saw the actress portray Julie Nicholson, the mother of
24-year-old Jenny who died in the terrorist attack.

The programme is based on Julie's memoir of the same name and tells the story of
Jenny's final morning and the week after the awful atrocity.

One Twitter user wrote: "Utterly broken watching Emily Watson in A Song for
Jenny. My heart & thoughts are with those mourning the 10th anniversary of 7/7
this week."

Another posted: "Incredibly moving. Emily Watson amazing as ever"

One tweeted: "The BBC drama A Song for Jenny, starring Emily Watson was a
difficult watch but an extraordinary portrayal of the effect of the 7/7
bombings"

Another wrote: "Congratulations to all involved in A Song for Jenny. So strange
seeing someone I know brilliantly portrayed by Emily Watson"

One tweeted: "Emily Watson was brilliant in 'A song for Jenny' - an emotional
powerful drama."

Watch the trailer for 'A Song For Jenny'

Jenny was tragically killed at Edgware Road tube station by Mohammed Sidique
Khan, leader of the 7/7 suicide bombings.

The drama was directed by Frank McGuiness and stars Nicola Wren as Jenny.

storify

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 10:59 AM GMT

7/7 hero on terror attacks: 'You have to carry on and live life as much as you
can';
It was the 7/7 image which showed such humanity among tragedy - and now Paul
Dadge has spoken ten years after the terrorist attack in London

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1108 words


A decade ago, former firefighter Paul Dadge was 28-years-old and a fortnight
into a new job as an IT consultant in London, still getting to grips with the
tube network.

So when an announcement warned there had been a power surge at Edgware Road and
City Line commuters were to alight at the next stop he thought nothing of it.

Paul, 38, began the rest of the journey to his Hammersmith work on foot. Within
minutes he'd reached Edgware Road, where he was met with unimaginable scenes.

That morning's rush hour had taken a devastating, tragic and shocking turn .

Three bombers had detonated explosives on the London Underground in the
first-ever suicide attack on British soil.

In total four bombs went off - the fourth on a double-decker bus in Tavistock
Square - claiming the lives of 52 innocent men and women, and injuring more than
700 commuters.

In Edgware Road, where six people died, Paul met people emerging with "black
sooted faces, soot around their noses and covered in dust from the tunnel
walls".

Faced with such carnage, and unaware that a bomb had gone off, Paul chose to
stay and help.

It was a decision that would thrust him into the global media spotlight.

A split-second photograph which captured him helping then 29-year-old Davinia
Turrell, who was wearing a burns gel pack over her face, proved such a powerful
image it was circulated around the globe.

It came to epitomise the strength and kindness of the human spirit, as well as
the life-changing horror those who had survived would face.

Ten years on, a lot has happened for Paul.

He has got married, moved house and had two wonderful children, Beatrice, aged
four, and Thomas, who is two.

He is chairman of Burntwood Community First Responders team, a role in which he
has met Hollywood A-lister Hugh Grant.

And he remains a first responder himself, as well as running an IT company.

With so much happening, and such a busy life, you might expect the memories of
that fateful day ten years ago to have faded.

Not a bit. Paul's memories of July 7, 2005, are just as vivid as ever - in fact,
he says, they are even more so.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Mercury, Paul, of Stafford, revealed:
"It might as well be the first year anniversary, rather than the 10th, because
that's just how very, very, vivid those memories of that day are still in my
mind today.

"They have been added to as the years have gone by the people I have met.

"Because the thing about anyone involved in 7/7 , is that they crave information
about exactly what happened, from as many different angles, because it's another
piece to add to the jigsaw of that day.

"I recently met someone who remembered me from 7/7 and I'd no idea who he was.

"He said that I'd given him a chair, and when he'd said he was OK, I'd
apparently said: 'That's your chair, I've put your name on it'.

"That sounds like something that I would say, and it's really nice to hear
stories like this even if I've no recollecton of it.

"Every time something like that happens, or new information comes out, it fills
in the gaps."

While it is a horrifying reality that many terrorist attacks have taken place in
the interim years, it is the slaughter on the sunbeds in Sousse that has been
described by Foreign minister Tobias Ellwood as the "most significant attack on
British people since 7/7".

Tessa Jowell MP, who recently delivered a 10th anniversary 7/7 memorial lecture
beside Tavistock Square, has called on Britain to be as strong over the deaths
in Sousse as the nation was in 7/7.

Back in 2005 Jowell was in Singapore, having just won the 2012 Olympics for
London in her role as minister for Olympics, when she learned of the 7/7
attacks.

Paul was in the audience listening to her speech and echoes her comment that:
"we will never be defeated by murderers who seek to divide us. They succeed only
in bringing us all closer together."

The father-of-two added: "The Prime Minister has revealed four UK terror attacks
have been thwarted so far this year in UK.

"But generations before us they were dealing with world wars.

"They were having either to ship their children away so they didn't get bombed
or send them off to war. We are not having to do that.

"This is a totally different war. This is a random one, one that we can't
control, manage, or risk-assess - and that's the concern.

"But people need to remember they've got more chance of being taken out by
another car while driving, or being knocked down crossing the road than be
affected by a terrorist act.

You have to carry on as much as you can, and just live life, because you don't
know how long you're going to be here for.

"One minute you could be mowing the lawn, the next minute you're dead. That's
shocking, but that's the reality of life.

"On 7/7 I had a choice to help or walk away. I helped.

"While I was helping that photograph was taken, and it has given me the
opportunity to do things that I wouldn't have had the opportunity to do.

"My day now can vary between extremes. One morning, for example, I was on the
sofa with Lorraine just talking and that evening I was giving CPR to someone in
cardiac arrest.

"It's extremely unfortunate that these things happen - and unbelievable that
they happen again and that people die in such an horrific way - but you still
have to live your life to the full, and lead as normal a life as possible.

"While I was at Tessa's memorial lecture, I met two people who'd lost daughters
at Edgware Road and as a father myself now, with my own daughter, I can't
comprehend losing her in that way. That heartache continues for them.

"There will be people who tink the incidents out in Tunisia and 7/7 will make
them martyrs, or further their aims or beliefs for whatever terrorist
organisation they are involved in.

"But we are so much stronger in the emergency services and a lot more prepared
than we were 10 years ago. So is the Government in providing support and
assistance.

"In reality these acts of terrorism just make us more resilient."

Paul, who revealed that he may pursue some sort of political post in the next
five years but declined to comment further, will be one of four people giving a
reading at the afternoon 7/7 anniversary service in Hyde Park.

"We will also probably be giving a hat tip to the guys in Tunisia," he added.

The community first responder has now put pen to paper about his life, including
pre and post 7/7 - and how just powerful the photo of him with Davinia proved to
be - in a book titled The Man and The Mask.

"It's something I have wanted to do for the last nine years and I felt the 10th
anniversary was a poignant time," he said. "It's a story about fate really
because most of my life has been shaped by 7/7."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 1:01 PM BST

TIMELINE: 7/7 LONDON TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Press Association Reporter

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


This is how events unfolded on Thursday July 7 2005, the day four suicide
bombers brought terror to London.

3.58am: A light blue Nissan Micra hired by Shehzad Tanweer, 22, and thought to
have had Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, and Hasib Hussain, 18, as passengers is
caught on CCTV in Hyde Park Road, Leeds, before joining the M1.

5.07am: Jermaine Lindsay, 19, arrives at Luton station car park in a red Fiat
Brava.

6.49am: The Micra arrives at Luton and parks next to the Brava. All four men get
out and appear to move items between the two boots before putting on rucksacks.

7.15am: The men enter Luton station and go through the ticket barriers heading
to the platform for the Thameslink train to London King's Cross.

7.40am: The train sets off.

8.23am: The train arrives at King's Cross, slightly late after a delay further
up the line. The four head in the direction of the London Underground system.

8.30am: Four men fitting their descriptions are seen hugging before splitting
up. Khan boards a west-bound Circle Line train, Tanweer an east-bound Circle
Line train, and Lindsay a south-bound Piccadilly Line train. Hussain also
appears to walk towards the Piccadilly Line entrance.

8.50am: Three bombs explode within a minute on London Underground trains.

Liverpool Street: Seconds after leaving the platform the eastbound Circle Line
train is blown up by Shehzad Tanweer - almost certainly in the second carriage
from the front. Eight people die including Tanweer, with 171 injured.

Edgware Road: The westbound Circle Line train is blown up by Mohammad Sidique
Khan. who is also in the second carriage from the front. Seven people including
Khan are killed, and 163 injured.

Between King's Cross and Russell Square: Jermaine Lindsay blows himself up in
the packed front carriage, killing 27 people including himself and injuring more
than 340.

8.55am: Hussain walks out of King's Cross Underground station and tries
unsuccessfully to contact the other three.

9.19am: A man thought to be Hussain is seen on a bus to Euston, from where he is
believed to have boarded the Number 30 bus.

9.30am: Cobra, the Government's national crisis management facility, is
activated in response to the explosions.

9.47am: Hussain detonates his bomb on the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square,
killing 14 people including himself, and injuring more than 110.

10.21am: Scotland Yard confirms there have been ''multiple explosions'' in
London.

Noon: Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking at the G8 summit in Gleneagles, says:
''It is reasonably clear there have been a series of terrorist attacks in
London.''

Afternoon: There are subsequent statements from Home Secretary Charles Clarke in
the House of Commons, and London Mayor Ken Livingstone in Singapore with the
2012 Olympic bid team. Mr Blair returns to London during the afternoon.

5.50pm: United Nations Security Council unanimously condemns the attacks.

10.19pm: Hussain's family report him missing.

11.40pm: Among several items reportedly found by a police exhibits officer are
cards and personal items in the name of ''Sidique Khan'' and ''Mr S Tanweer'' at
Aldgate.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                              July 6, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Media reports of terrorist attacks must be cut down;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 114 words


THE West has a problem because suicide bombers are always unknown. They only do
it once.

Maggie Thatcher had a good idea when she cut off media coverage of the IRA, but
Western leaders are now playing into the hands of the terrorists by sending
Government ministers to each atrocity and parading it on television.

This simply inflates the egos of the thugs, who know they are causing mayhem
while they rob countries of their national assets, and blight young girls with
rape and torture. These are not religious fanatics; they are thieves who steal
money and abuse young women, and they should not be honoured with any epithet
that refers to a religion or its beliefs.

Vincent Saunders, Troon

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 01:34 PM GMT

21/7: The Story Of The Bungled UK Terror Attack

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 650 words



HIGHLIGHT: A smell of burning rubber. Three rucksacks full of explosives ditched
at Tube stations. An hour later, the same on an east London bus.


  Four young men on the run, unleashing the biggest police manhunt in British
history.

It was 21 July, 2005. Britain was still reeling from an al Qaeda suicide bomb
attack that killed 52 people in the worst terrorist atrocity the country has
ever seen.

Exactly two weeks on, an identical attack had been launched on identical
targets: three Tube trains and a London bus.

Unlike 7/7, however, when the terrorists tried to set them off, the detonators
ignited but the explosives did not.

At that point, passengers on those trains and the bus had no way of knowing that
they owed their lives to a breakdown in communication between the terror gang
and their master.

Ringleader Muktar Said Ibrahim and his three accomplices had prepared the
explosives along the same lines as Mohammed Sidique Khan and his fellow 7/7
bombers.

The crucial difference between the two was a lack of technical support.

When Khan and his gang ran into problems preparing their weapons of mass murder,
they received a helping hand from Rashied Raouf, al Qaeda's key operational
co-ordinator for both plots.

Raouf remained in close contact with the four-man 7/7 cell in the UK throughout
the process of making the bombs, and continued to encourage them until the
moment they launched their attacks.

But when Ibrahim, his other protégé, returned to the UK he stopped
communicating, an after-action report compiled by Raouf later revealed.

As he had been taught, Ibrahim assembled his four-man kill team and built the
bombs.

All he lacked was the guidance to get them to work properly.

It was later said in court that had they gone off, dozens of people would have
died.

Raouf was the link man in Pakistan between British volunteers and al Qaeda and
was a key player in several plots against his home country.

The son of a baker, he fled the UK following the murder of his uncle.

He then married the sister-in-law of Maulana Masood Azhar, the head and founder
of Jaish Mohammed, a Pakistani jihadi group, and quickly rose through al Qaeda's
ranks.

He is "credited" with discovering Khan and fellow 7/7 bomber Shehzad Tanweer in
Pakistan, who at the time were intent on martyring themselves over the border in
Afghanistan.

Instead, he helped turn them back on Britain, with devastating consequences.

"We know from documents that have emerged from al Qaeda itself that the sort of
handler of the two [Raouf] when they were travelling around Afghanistan/Pakistan
these two individuals had been identified to him by other people ... to look out
for," said Raffaelo Pantucci, director of international security studies at the
Royal United Services Institute (RUSI).

"When he initially approached them they expressed a desire to launch, to fight
and die in Afghanistan. This was sort of their goal.

"He then introduced them to another leader of al Qaeda who instead seemed to
have persuaded them that actually their duty was going to be more use was to
return back to the United Kingdom and launch an attack and then we start in
motion the process of the 7/7 attack."

Raouf was later implicated in the plot to blow up airliners using liquid
explosives targeting 1,500 passengers by a cell of followers from High Wycombe
and London.

He was held in jail in Pakistan but mysteriously escaped without effort.

Ibrahim, Yassin Omar, Ramzi Mohammed, and Hussain Osman were caught, tried and
jailed for life with a minimum term of 40 years for the failed 21/7 plot in
2007.

Raouf was reported by his family to have been killed in a drone strike the
following year.

However, his after-action report could, perhaps, now explain the lower-tech
approaches to terror followed in the Mumbai massacres and lately with the brutal
murders of 38 tourists in Tunisia.

Bombs are complicated. Guns are not. With enough ammunition, one man can attract
the attention of the world, and possibly cripple an economy.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 6:45 PM GMT

7/7 reunion: bomb victim Gill Hicks meets the policeman who saved her life;
Gill Hicks, who lost both legs in the July 7 terror attacks, is reunited with
her rescuer 10 years after the dreadful events which claimed 52 lives

BYLINE: By Vin Shahrestani video source ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 137 words


Gill Hicks, a 7/7 survivor was today reunited, in an emotional scene, with the
officer who saved her during the terrorist attack in London .

Ms Hicks was standing on a busy Piccadilly line train in the morning rush hour
10 years ago, when Jermaine Lindsay detonated a bomb between King's Cross and
Russle Square.

26 people died in that one attack and Ms Hicks would have been one, were it not
for Pc Maxwell pulling from the wreckage.

Losing 75 per cent of her blood and both her legs, Ms Hicks was the last person
to be rescued from the day's attack. Her doctors did not expect her to live.

Yet Ms Hicks pulled through and 10 years after that fateful day, she exchanged
hugs with her rescuer.

Watch the video above for to see the tender moment                     they were
reunited.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 3:39 PM GMT

7/7 London terrorist bombings: The attacks that killed 52 people, in pictures;
Britain will fall silent on the 10th anniversary of the July 7 terrorist attacks
in memory of the 52 people killed in London.

LENGTH: 20 words


Britain will fall silent on the 10th anniversary of the July 7 terrorist attacks
in memory of the 52 people killed in London.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 6, 2015 Monday 10:15 AM GMT

7/7 policewoman Elizabeth Kenworthy: 'I'm no hero';
Pc Elizabeth Kenworth, an off-duty policewoman, saved the lives of two fellow
Tube passengers after the July 7 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Ju Zhang

LENGTH: 66 words


The married mother of two had been on her way to a meeting in Westminster when
Shehzad Tanweer detonated the bomb that killed seven people.

She made her way through several carriages to the scene of the explosion and
used her corduroy jacket and a belt to staunch the flow of blood from the
severed legs of Martine Wright and Andrew Brown, an act of bravery for which she
was later awarded the MBE.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Basingstoke Gazette

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Inquest opened for Tunisia terror attack victim David Thompson

BYLINE: Jessica Bave

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 156 words


AN inquest has been opened into the death of a Tadley pensioner killed in the
Tunisia terrorist attack.

As previously reported by The Gazette, Tadley resident David Thompson was one of
the 30 British victims of the terrorist attack which took place on a beach, near
Sousse on June 26.

The 80-year-old was on holiday with his partner Anne in Tunisia at the time of
the attack.

In total, 38 people lost their lives in the attack, carried out by Seifeddine
Rezgui, and 30 of those victims have now been confirmed as British.

An inquest, which was opened by senior West London coroner, Chinyere Inyama
yesterday, found that Mr Thompson died from a gunshot wound to the chest.

The inquest was adjourned pending the completion of investigations by both
Tunisian and UK agencies.

Mr Thompson, who was 80 and lived in The Green, Tadley, is said to be a former
Atomic Weapons Establishment scientist and neighbours described him as a "very
active person".

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Algerian security reportedly seal entrances to Bouira after "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 106 words


Algerian security forces have sealed all entrances to the northern city of
Bouira and dispatched 1,100 personnel to surround the university complex
following a drive-by "terrorist" attack which injured two policemen,
privately-owned French-language Algerian daily El Watan's website reported on 7
July.

Sources told El Watan that "terrorists" targeted a police patrol outside the
OPOW Rabat Bitat sports complex in the city centre late on the evening of 6
July.

The report said that the policemen were transferred to the Mohamed Boudiaf
Hospital in Bouira and were in a stable condition.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 7 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:30 AM GMT

Britain remembers victims of 7/7 London terror attacks ten years on;
52 people were killed by four home-grown terrorists in July 7, 2005

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words


Britain will pause for a minute's silence at 1130 today to remember the July 7
attacks amid warnings about the enduring threat from terrorism a decade on.

David Cameron has said the Tunisian beach massacre showed the danger remains but
vowed the nation would not be cowed by extremists.

e

Tony Blair, the prime minister when 52 people were killed by four home-grown
terrorists in July 7, 2005, says the battle against Islamist extremism must be
fought on the ground.

Mayor of London Boris Johnson says the 7/7 killers "failed in their aim".

Speaking to reporters in Hyde Park, he said the terrorists "didn't in any way
change the fundamentals of London and what makes this city great", adding:
"Indeed, it's gone from strength to strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

But Mr Johnson said today people have to remember that "the problem has not gone
away", adding: "We're as ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine
there are preparations going on all the time in the event of all kinds of
attacks.

On Thursday July 7 2005, the four suicide bombers Shehzad Tanweer, 22 Mohammed
Sidique Khan, 30, Hasib Hussain, 18 and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, arrived at King's
Cross at around 8.23am.

At 8.30am four men fitting their descriptions are seen hugging before splitting
up. Khan boarded a west-bound Circle Line train, Tanweer an east-bound Circle
Line train, and Lindsay a south-bound Piccadilly Line train. Hussain also
appears to walk towards the Piccadilly Line entrance.

At 8.50am three bombs exploded within a minute on London Underground trains and
today at 8.50 silences were held to pay tribute to those who died.

At Edgeware Road people, who were visibly moved, brought flowers to the station:

a

a

Flowers have also been laid at Aldgate.

d

Earlier David Cameron tweeted: At 11.30am today, the country comes together to
remember the victims of one of the deadliest terrorist atrocities on mainland
Britain. Ten years on from the 7/7 London attacks, the threat continues to be as
real as it is deadly - but we will never be cowed by terrorism.

s

sa

A tweet from St Paul's Cathedral said: "This great, diverse, ingenious, tolerant
and respectful city. This London"

s

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe also laid a wreath
during the short, sombre ceremony in Hyde Park.

Speaking earlier, Mayor of London Boris Johnson said the four suicide bombers
had "failed in their aim".

He said the terrorists "didn't in any way change the fundamentals of London and
what makes this city great", adding: "Indeed, it's gone from strength to
strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

But Mr Johnson said today people have to remember that "the problem has not gone
away", adding: "We're as ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine
there are preparations going on all the time in the event of all kinds of
attacks."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Man Arrested On Charges Of Plotting Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 56  words



HIGHLIGHT: Jordanian security forces have arrested a member of the
Iranian-backed Bayt al-Maqdis group over charges of plotting a large-scale
terrorist attack in the country, as reported by Al-Rai on July 6.


News: Jordanian security forces have arrested a member of the Iranian-backed
Bayt al-Maqdis group over charges of plotting a large-scale terrorist attack in
the country, as reported by Al-Rai on July 6. The suspect, who holds citizenship
in Iraq and Norway, was caught with 100 pounds of explosives that he had
smuggled into northern Jordan.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 8:07 AM GMT

7/7 bombings: A history of terrorist attacks in the UK since the London
bombings;
From the brutal murder of Lee Rigby to the Glasgow Airport attack, terrorism in
the UK since 7/7 bombings 10 years ago

BYLINE: By Mike Kelly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 8 words


Terrorist incidents in the UK since July 7, 2005

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 6:43 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: Recap of updates as the UK marks the 10th anniversary of attacks
in London;
The worst ever terror attack on British soil killed 52 innocent people and left
more than 700 commuters injured

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 2 words


7/7 anniversary

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:57 AM GMT

Terror as woman is attacked in her bed by robber who punched her twice before
stealing laptop and phone;
FIONA Lamont  was disturbed by the crook at 4am as he tried to unplug her
expensive mobile phone from its charger

BYLINE: By Gavin McInally

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 363 words


POLICE were yesterday hunting a cowardly thief who sneaked into a young woman's
home in the middle of the night and attacked her as she lay in bed.

Fiona Lamont, 22, was disturbed by the crook at 4am as he tried to unplug her
expensive mobile phone from its charger.

As the terrified nursery worker tried to get out of bed, the thief punched her
twice in the face and then fled with the phone.

Recalling her ordeal yesterday, Fiona told the Paisley Daily Express: "I was
alone at home at the time and, because I'm a light-sleeper, I woke up when I
heard someone in my room.

"I just started screaming but, before I had the chance to get out of my bed, he
punched me twice in the face, really hard, and then took my phone.

"I ran downstairs after him and noticed that my laptop had been stolen too.

"It wasn't until afterwards that it all sunk in and I realised what had
happened.

"I was absolutely terrified. I called the police and stayed on the phone until
they arrived at the house."

The thief struck in Russell Place, Linwood, where Fiona lives with her parents,
in the early hours of Sunday morning.

"It's so scary to think about what happened," said Fiona. "I don't want to be
left alone in the house again.

"The next time my mum and dad are going to be away, I'll either ask someone to
come over to stay or I'll go elsewhere."

More news from Paisley and Renfrewshire

Police say the crook is thought to be in his late 20s, around 5ft 11ins tall,
heavily built and has short hair.

He was unshaven at the time and was wearing dark clothes.

Inspector Cassie Glass, who is based at Johnstone Police Office, has appealed
for information which might help her officers snare the violent thief.

She said: "This was a very frightening incident for the young woman involved and
we are very keen to track down the person responsible.

"I would ask anyone with any information about this incident to contact us
immediately.

"I would also like to remind residents of the importance of making sure all
doors are locked overnight, to prevent incidents like this from happening."

If you have information about the incident, call the police on 101 or ring
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Quick Quiz: News 6/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 7:30 AM GMT

Horror of 9/11 and 7/7 terror attacks used in pro-Tunisia tourism adverts

BYLINE: Ian Proctor

LENGTH: 470 words


UNBELIEVABLE tourism ads use the 7/7 London bombings and 9/11 US attacks to try
to entice visitors back to the North African country.

The nation is still reeling from last week's killing of 38 guests at a beach
resort in Sousse by up to three Islamic State gunmen.

Thirty Brits were among those shot in cold blood by Tunisian
student-turned-radical Seffedine Rezgul as he stalked the sands and the poolside
for around an hour before being shot dead by a hero policeman.

The country, which hugs the Med, is reliant on tourism but jihadists have vowed
to strike the sun-kissed land again.

Now one Tunisian man is using the memory of 9/11 and the 7/7 terror attacks in
New York and London to urge people not to boycott his homeland.

Digital designer and start-up businessman Selim Ben Hadj Yahia created a series
of four unofficial advertising posters, the other two images referring to the
Charlie Hebdo killings in Paris and the bin lorry tragedy in Glasgow.

It uses provocative imagery and asks "Would you stop visiting New York?" and
"Would you stop visiting London?" and so on.

All four posters carry the tagline "Support Tunisia, land of peace" although it
is by no means an official slogan of the country's tourism campaign.

** CLICK HERE TO TAKE OUR POLL ON WHETHER THE ADVERTS HAVE GONE TOO FAR **

Poster creator Selim Ben Hadj Yahia

Selim, who live in the capital Tunis, said on Facebook: "After the sadness and
shock, the time has come for reflection and questions.

"And the interrogation that came to me is the following: How can I help my
beautiful country that is dying?"

"I immediately thought 'crisis communication' and so I tried to put in image
what I imagine as message likely to speak to our friends in the world.

"The issue came simply 'Have you ceased to visit Paris, New York or London after
the attacks they have suffered?'

"This message is a call to support to Tunisia, which I hope will be shared to
the maximum so that it can reach a maximum of people because we need more than
ever.

"Thank you, and vive la Tunisia, land of peace."

Responding to criticism on Facebook, Selim said: "Do not forget that tourism,
it's just 7% of [Tunisia] GDP and that we cannot afford to abandon it, at least
in the short term.

"The action must be multi-levelled and even if we want to switch to other
sectors, this must be done over 10 to 15 years.

"In the end, it is a small symbolic gesture, the real thing that we must have
this is a real political will at the elected level ;)."

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Did THREE gunmen open fire on sunbathing
Brits? Tunisia terror: Jihadists vow to massacre tourists AGAIN in horror
holiday hit list Tunisia in state of emergency after deadly beach terror
massacre  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

He was our third musketeer, say family of terrorist attack victim

BYLINE: PR Page Manager 13

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 217 words


The "close-knit" family of a man from Lowestoft who died in the Tunisian
massacre have paid tribute to their "third musketeer".



Stuart Cullen, 52, was with his wife when he fell victim to the terrorist attack
on June 26.

His wife, Christine, and daughter Emma-Jayne, said in a statement: "We were the
Three Musketeers. A close-knit family.

"He was dad, husband, best friend and soulmate.

"He lived for his girls and juggled life at home being medically retired from
the prison service. He was an ardent Chelsea supporter who loved life.

"He had a wicked sense of humour and only ever wanted to put a smile on people's
faces.

"He was devoted to his mum, plus an honourable and loyal friend, always giving
help and support where he could.

"The legacy he leaves is his strength.

"The strength to move forward whatever that may look like - not to mourn but to
celebrate his life and what he had accomplished.

"Gone but never forgotten.

"We would like to thank everyone for all their ongoing help and support at this
difficult time."

The attack at the Tunisian resort of Sousse claimed the lives of 30 British
holidaymakers, including Philip Heathcote from Felixstowe, and injured dozens
more.

Would you like to pay tribute to Stuart Cullen? Email, giving your full contact
details, to andrew.papworth@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:09 AM GMT

7/7 anniversary: Every day we are working to prevent another terror attack, says
spy boss

BYLINE: John Ingham

LENGTH: 765 words


THE head of MI5 today said the 7/7 attacks were a reminder of what the security
services are trying to prevent every single day.

GETTY·PA

MI5 boss Andrew Parker warns of future terror attacks

In a rare public statement MI5 director general Andrew Parker warned that they
cannot stop every plot.

He also slammed the "twisted" thinking of terrorists born in Britain who declare
war on their own country.

On the eve of the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 attacks Mr Parker highlighted the
continuing threat from terrorists including the recent massacre of British
tourists in Tunisia.

He said: "The shocking and brutal murder of so many innocent holiday-makers in
Sousse has yet again brought the reality of terrorism to the fore. Today we
remember the victims of another dreadful day."

PA

Wounded woman leaving Edgware Road tube station

Express

A map of the attacks that took place on July 7, 2005

He said he well remembered the "ominous news reports" 10 years ago of disruption
on the Tube and how the truth about "those disgusting murders" quickly emerged.

He said: "I had taken over as MI5's Counter Terrorism director a few months
earlier.

"We had always known - and said publicly - we simply can't find and stop every
terrorist plot. We could not have prevented 7/7.

Related articles  Ten years later we are still losing the war on extremism
says...  7/7 anniversary: Remembering that dark day terrorists murdered 52...

"While it remains true that we thwart most attempts, the rare occasions when
terror attacks occur stand as stark moments in contemporary history."

Michael Clarke, of the Royal United Services Institute - an independent think
tank specialising in defence and security, this morning also reiterated the
concerns over the terror threat facing Britain.

He said: "We live in a critical terrorist enovironment, but we should carry on
with our lives as normal."

In January Mr Parker warned that Britain faces a growing terrorist threat,
particularly from British jihadis who have gone to fight in Syria and Iraq.

More than 700 are known to have flocked to the ranks of murderous outfits such
as Islamic State.

Express

Timeline of the horror attacks

PA

Damage to London Underground train at Aldgate tube station

About half of them are thought to have come home amid fears that many could
carry out terror attacks.

One of the biggest problems is that British jihadis still in the Middle East
could orchestrate attacks here.

Mr Parker said that 7/7 had led to a step-change in the nation's counter
terrorism defences and the foiling of Al Qaeda's most ambitious plot - trying to
bring down several airliners on US cities using liquid bombs on flights from
London.

He said: "Thousands would have died. I'm not sure we would have detected it
without the uplift that followed 7/7.

"These and other appalling acts are attempted by individuals who have grown up
here but decided for whatever twisted reasons to identify their own country as
the enemy.

"They are a tiny fraction of the population. But the continuing fact that some
people, born in the UK, with all the opportunities and freedoms that modern
Britain offers, can nonetheless make those sorts of warped choices presents a
serious societal and security challenge.

"The terrible events in London on 7 July 2005 are enduring reminders of the
reality of what MI5 is striving every day to prevent."

Mr Parker spoke of the security services' constant battle to thwart terrorists,
from organised well-funded gangs to lone wolves.

He said: "We cannot be complacent. Although we and our partners try our utmost
we know that we cannot hope to stop everything."

The news comes as the Government met with MI5 and counter terror police chiefs
to discuss the possibility of raising the UK's terror threat level to
'Critical', meaning an attack is imminent.

Threats from the Islamic State to attack the West during the holy month of
Ramadan and to mark the first year of the Caliphate are thought to have prompted
the re-think on national security.

It comes a week after 30 British holidaymakers were slaughtered in the Tunisian
resort of Sousse by IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

The last time Britain was placed at 'Critical' was on June 30 2007 following the
failed attempt to bomb Glasgow Airport.

Currently the threat level facing the country is 'Severe' which means an attack
is "highly likely".

Related articles London schoolgirls who fled to join Islamic State 'being
trained for European attacks' 'More extremists want to attack Britain now than
at any time since 7/7 bombings' Three Islamists with maps and ISIS propaganda
arrested over 7/7 anniversary terror plot

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Plans for a permanent memorial to Carly Lovett and the other Tunisia terror
attack victims

LENGTH: 93  words


A permanent memorial to Carly Lovett and the other 29 British victims of the
Tunisia terror attack is to be created.

Carly, 24, from Gainsborough was one of the 38 people killed in Tunisia while on
holiday in Sousse with her fiance, Liam Moore.

Her family, as well as those of the 29 other victims, are to be consulted on the
location for the memorial.

Carly was among the first of the British tourists to arrive back in the UK.

Eight coffins were flown by an RAF C17 from Tunis to RAF Brize Norton, in
Oxfordshire, where they were then taken to a chapel of rest.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Gazette

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Terror as bedroom intruder attacks Linwood girl

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 191 words


Fiona Lamont, 22, was fast asleep at her house in Russell Place, Linwood when
she was confronted by a towering figure standing over her.

Police said the brave young woman attempted to defend herself as he grabbed her
mobile phone - but was punched twice in the face as a result.

The brute managed to escape with her Samsung Galaxy mobile and a laptop, worth
hundreds of pounds, just shortly after 4.10am on Sunday morning.

Bizarrely, it was later discovered the thief had also raided her fridge for food
before carrying out the theft.

Fiona, who has been left badly shaken by the ordeal, told The Gazette: "It was
pretty scary as I was in the house myself at the time.

"I was just in my bed sleeping and I woke up and turned round and saw a guy
standing over me taking my phone.

"Because I started then panicking and screaming, the guy started hitting me in
the face and shoved me back down to the bed.

"I was in total shock, my reaction was just to get up and try and get the phone
but he punched me and then ran off.

"The police came out straight away after it, it's made me very wary but
hopefully I'll get over the shock soon." More in tomorrow's Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 3:42 PM GMT

7/7 bombings anniversary: #WalkTogether trends on Twitter in London as thousands
remember 52 victims of terror attacks;
Memorials held across the capital to remember those killed on 7th July

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 555 words


Thousands have taken to Twitter as the hashtag #WalkTogether trended across
London on the 10th anniversary of the London 7/7 bombings in which 52 people
were killed.

The single worst terrorist atrocity on British home soil claimed the lives of 52
people and injured 700 more on 7 July 2005.

Today, commemorative services are taking place across the capital as well as the
'walk together' initiative started by thinktank British Future.

It urges commuters to leave their Tubes a stop early and walk, remembering the
afternoon of the attack when thousands took to London's streets as public
transport network shut.

Will be disembarking at Russell Square to walk to Holborn this morning.
Travelling the Piccadilly line exactly 10 years later. #walktogether- ~
(@YouMustBeAnna) July 7, 2015Leaving the house a bit earlier today so I can walk
part of the way to work to remember those who died on 7/7 #walktogether- Nihal
Arthanayake (@TherealNihal) July 7, 2015Still have the shoes I was wearing to
walk 5 miles on 7/7. The blisters have gone, not the memories.
#walktogetherpic.twitter.com/Qg70sZuwte- Andrew Dysch (@fing1992) July 7,
2015Ten years ago, 52 people lost their lives in London. Don't walk alone
#walktogether on 7/7 to remember them! pic.twitter.com/vJru2d6NOI- Richard Gough
(@shotbyrichie) July 7, 2015The awful realisation of what 7/7 really was & the
relief hearing from my bro 2 say he was ok - he'd left KX 1 train before.
#WalkTogether- [#xad0] Sharmila [#xad0] (@sharmilapurryag) July 7, 2015We're not
divided, we're not afraid, we'll stand together and #walktogether. We remember
those who were killed, injured&scarred #sevenseven- Anna (@Anna_Seligman) July
7, 2015#walktogetherpic.twitter.com/B9o6uLJu6d- Tude (@tudely) July 7, 2015Ten
years ago @clarewubbleyoo & I were on a tube when it stopped suddenly at Earls
Court. Thinking of those affected. #unity#walktogether- Gem (@gemma_elmore) July
7, 201510 years ago in hub office round corner from Aldgate tube we sat together
too shocked to go home & be alone. Londoners #walktogether today.- Julia Payne
(@juliaatthehub) July 7, 2015#walktogether will be walking between kings cross
and Russell square. No one should leave for work and not come home. RIP.- Emma
Peskett (@biscuitafc) July 7, 2015

Feeling emotional seeing the #walktogether photos remembering my very long walk
that day through the carnage of London #sevenseven- Claire Kearney
(@ClaireRKearney) July 7, 2015

#walktogether#10yearson#7thjuly2005pic.twitter.com/aJsup4bZZY- landslidegirl
(@landslidegirl) July 7, 2015

Prominent political figures have also started tweeting about the event.

#WalkTogether In their memory, for this fantastic city & its wonderful people,
which I am proud to call my temporary home- Matthew Barzun (@MatthewBarzun) July
7, 2015#walktogether today to remember the 52 who died, the bravery of the
emergency services, & London at its dignified, unified best.- Zac Goldsmith
(@ZacGoldsmith) July 7, 2015

Meanwhile, prominent public figures will gather in St Paul's Cathedral,
Tavistock Square and at the Hyde Park memorial to the victims to pay tribute to
the lives lost when four suicide bombers detonated their devices on three Tube
stations and one double-decker London bus.

READ MORE: 7/7 bombings timeline: How the day unfoldedPolice officer recalls the
horrific scene at Edgware Road

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 3:26 PM GMT

After the London bombings on 7 July I became a 'British Muslim' - suddenly my
religious identity took centre stage;
Now every time I hear of another terrorist attack, I pray it wasn't orchestrated
by a Muslim

BYLINE: Sabbiyah Pervez

SECTION: VOICES

LENGTH: 936 words


A decade has passed since four men travelled to London and blew themselves up
killing 52 people. I was 16, and I remember it well, I remember the confusion,
the anger and the shock.

Since then terror has raged across our world, from al-Qaeda to the Taliban, from
Boko Haram to Isis - all in a sick battle  to outdo each other in massacre and
bloodshed, and all, reportedly, in the name of Islam.

In the past 10 years the language used to define terrorists has changed. They
have gone from being called "homegrown terror cells" to Islamists, radicals,
jihadi fighters, jihadi brides and so on.

Muslims have come out time and again to denounce their actions. Hashtags such as
#NotInMyName have dominated social media. I have lost count of the number of
times I have had to say: "These terrorists do not represent Islam, these are not
the actions of Muslims." And I have lost count of the number of times I have
despaired upon hearing news of another terror attack, praying it was not
orchestrated by another Muslim.

When the attacks occurred in 2005, I was already conscious of my Pakistani
heritage. I was attending a private school where the student population was
predominately white.

At that time I was leading a double life, like many in my generation. At home we
conformed to the social and cultural norms that were expected of us, yet with my
friends I was free to be the individual I wanted. Before 7/7 my identity was
British Asian, a term which sounds outdated now.

Read more: Peace Journey to retrace 7/7 bombers' routeFour emergency workers who
saved lives recall 7/7Only Muslim survivor of 7/7 warns against Islamophobia

Following the attacks, my religious identity took centre stage. The term
"British Muslim" was coined, which posed an identity crisis. Could I be British
and Muslim? These questions encouraged me to look at Islam in depth. I hadn't
done before, but I hadn't needed to. Nobody had asked me about my headscarf, or
asked questions like "why does Allah tell you lot to go around killing us?" I
found I was comfortable with my identity and I knew that terror had no place in
Islam, a religion of mercy, compassion and peace. But in some ways I was also
young and naive; I did not expect that the generation below me could be groomed
to join a movement such as Isis.

A friend recently told me he was sick of being viewed with suspicion; he was
tired of having people ask him his views on Isis. He told me "I hate Isis more
than they do for hijacking our religion and affecting my life and
relationships."

Is it plausible to suggest that if your identity is constantly under scrutiny,
it makes it easy for you to become a victim to those who seek to prey on you for
their own evil ends? Is it worth asking whether if you are unemployed, living in
a deprived area with little aspirations, constantly under attack for who you are
with no one to guide you, that you could fall victim to the Isis machine? It is
worth asking what we should do when some parents do not speak English as a first
language thus fail to even communicate with their children let alone detect
signs of radicalisation?

Over the past month I have spent a lot of time in Dewsbury and Bradford,
speaking to people who know those who have left for Syria. A significant push
factor is identity; you see many of my generation recognise that their heritage
is Pakistani, Somali, Arab or Bangladeshi.

Many of us are second or third-generation children of immigrants with strong
ties to our parents' birth countries. When we visit the "motherland" we do not
belong because we speak the language differently or we look and act in
unfamiliar ways. Yet in the country we are born and raised we are sometimes seen
as a threat.

Community workers up and down the country are doing brilliant work mentoring
young people and trying to prevent radicalisation, and we have to acknowledge
and appreciate their work. A lot of the time that work goes by unnoticed. But
there is so much more to be done by all of us.

Two days ago, a relative came to my house to break his fast with me and my
husband. He is a very good friend of a family member of one of the victims who
died in the Tunisia attack, and mentioned casually in conversation that at first
he was worried to go over to the house and offer his condolences. He asked us if
it was too soon. "I worry if they will now see me as a Muslim," he said.

In that bleak moment it felt like the world had come round in a circle. I
remembered the stories my parents used to tell me of enduring racism on the
streets of Bradford when they first arrived in the UK. I worry about what the
future holds for my children, and their own identities.

I used to think my generation would never have those problems, but over the past
couple of weeks I have heard of the backlash Muslims, and those that look  like
Muslims, have faced. It appears the focus on racial prejudice has shifted to
religious prejudice.

Yet a couple of days ago, I travelled with a group of young people from
different faiths on a peace journey to London from Leeds. They took the same
journey the bombers from Leeds had 10 years ago but they were replacing it with
peace.

It was a mixed group of different races and faiths and we travelled together.
They paid respects at the 7/7 memorial and they heard from survivors of the
attack. Before I left for my journey home after what was an emotionally and
physically exhausting day, one young person turned to me and said: "It's all
about unity. If we stand together as humans, we can defeat terror." I walked
away feeling hopeful and inspired.

In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 3:23 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: From Tony Blair to Prince William, what key figures said about the
attacks at the time;
It is the 10th anniversary of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London

BYLINE: Hayden Smith

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 449 words


Here are some of the reactions to the July 7 bombings from politicians, members
of the Royal Family and other leading figures on the day of the attacks.

Tony Blair, then prime minister: "When they try to intimidate us, we will not be
intimidated. When they seek to change our country or our way of life by these
methods, we will not be changed. The purpose of terrorism is just that. It is to
terrorise people and we will not be terrorised. This is a very sad day for the
British people but we will hold true to the British way of life."

The Queen: "The dreadful events in London this morning have deeply shocked us
all. I know I speak for the whole nation in expressing my sympathy to all those
affected and the relatives of the killed and injured."

Ken Livingstone, then mayor of London: "London has been the target of a cowardly
terrorist attack. Londoners have responded calmly and courageously. On behalf of
all Londoners, I want to express my deepest sympathies to the families and
friends of those who have been killed and to all of those who have been
injured."

Michael Howard, then Tory leader: "I entirely support what the Prime Minister
has said about our determination to protect and defend our way of life. It is
important that everyone should know that this country is completely united in
our determination to defeat terrorism and to deal with those who are responsible
for the appalling acts which we have seen today."

Charles Kennedy, then leader of the Liberal Democrats: "The people who
perpetrated these monstrous attacks have no interest whatsoever in the liberty
and dignity of individuals. They deserve and receive national and international
contempt."

The Rt Rev Richard Chartres, Bishop of London: "This is a grave day for London.
Our thoughts and prayers are with the injured and bereaved and also with the
emergency services who have responded so rapidly."

Prince William: "I was shocked and very saddened to learn of the terrible events
that had occurred in London."

Jack McConnell, then Scotland first minister: "I had planned today to have a
conversation with Ken Livingstone to congratulate him on the success of London
yesterday in winning the Olympic Games for 2012. Instead I have sent a message
of condolence."

Read more: 7/7 bombings timeline: How the day unfoldedPolice officer recalls the
horrific scene at Edgware RoadTube driver recalls the moment a bomb exploded
yards by his train

In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

Press Association

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 3:21 PM GMT

7/7 bombing anniversary: 10 years on, is Britain now at greater threat of a
terror attack?;
Experts say the threat to Britain has 'diversified' and become 'more intense' -
but that the UK security services have adapted their responses as a result

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 918 words


Britain is at a greater threat from terror attack now than it was at the time of
the 7/7 bombings a decade ago, according to an expert from a leading UK security
think-tank.

The national terror threat level was not public knowledge at the time of the
attacks, when British youths killed 52 and injured more than 700 by detonating
four bombs across London's transport network.

With the level now standing at "severe", meaning an attack is "highly likely",
experts at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) said the threat had only
grown in the past decade.

In pictures: Mock terror attack in London

Margaret Gilmore, a senior associate fellow specialising in national security at
RUSI and a former BBC home affairs correspondent at the time of the attack, said
that the rise of Isis and the ongoing threat of al-Qaeda made the dangers of a
terror attack on home soil "more intense".

A 'more diverse' threat

"The threat is greater than 10 years ago because it is more diverse," she told
The Independent. "Solitary Islamic extremists, urged on through the rhetoric of
terrorist groups abroad and published on the internet, have become increasingly
confident in carrying out acts of violence in their home countries with very
little support or financial back-up."

Ms Gilmore said: "Isis has emerged as an organised, powerful and barbaric group
which has developed the ability to lure support among extremists from across the
globe.

"But other groups including al-Qaeda still harbour the will to carry out large
scale bomb attacks in countries like the UK and US, organised by their
leadership. And a host of other terrorist groups with similar ideologies have
taken a grip where there are failing states or areas of lawlessness like Somalia
and parts of Nigeria."

How has UK reacted?

Dr Afzal Ashraf, a consultant fellow at the RUSI, said the way the UK terror
threat has changed made it "very difficult to compare" to a decade ago.

The 7/7 bombings were the first and only time the whole of the London
Underground was shut down for 24 hours or more. From communications systems not
working below the surface, to basic issues processing mobile phone footage and
input from the public, the unprecedented incident threw up a range of modern
problems for the police.

Last week, British security forces responded to the Tunisia hotel attack by
holding two days of large-scale training exercises in London, focussing on what
might happen if a lone gunman or bomber targeted the UK.

And for Dr Ashraf, the changes since 7/7 mean "there's no doubt that our
security services and our police are very much better prepared than they were 10
years ago".

"Lone actor attacks are certainly the most likely threat that we face because
the larger the group, the easier it is to detect," he said.

"But the security services also understand this threat a great deal more than
they did in the past. They have better early-warning mechanisms and much more
sound responses, and there has been a deliberate attempt to understand, evaluate
and prepare for [potential attacks] through training."

What happens if there is an attack?

Part of the purpose of last week's drills, Dr Ashraf said, was to learn how
Britain's plans for dealing with a terror incident are applied.

"In terms of the parts we were able to see, it was very well stage-managed - and
obviously that was just a small aspect of it since you don't want to give the
terrorists an idea of how we may respond to an attack," he said.

The former senior RAF officer said the security services would have practised in
the event of a range of different types of attack, including bombings like 7/7
and "marauding" assailants like in Tunisia.

"The measures are definitely in place, and I'm pretty confident that it is
something that people are prepared for and will react very swiftly should
anything happen," Dr Ashraf said.

In the event of an attack, key terror targets in London like Downing Street, the
Palace of Westminster, Buckingham Palace or Canary Wharf were all prepared for
what to do, the experts said.

"There are very well-rehearsed evacuation plans," according to Ms Gilmore. "Even
two weeks after 7/7 I was with the BBC covering copycat attacks in Shepherds
Bush, and evacuation happened so fast. We were pushed right back, and within
half an hour it was a very extensive area cleared."

Individual buildings and businesses have their own emergency contingencies, she
said, while there are allocated safe places to put groups like Cobra and other
government ministers.

"We don't know exactly, but there are underground safe places [in the City] and
plans to move outside the capital if need be," she said. "In the highly unlikely
case of a really big attack, all plans are different but MI5, for example, has a
very highly-fortified headquarters in Northern Ireland that they could decamp to
if necessary."

Ms Gilmore said that while memorial services to mark the anniversary of 7/7
itself would be a high-profile target for groups like Isis, a major attack
seemed unlikely.

"I think there will be more security in London than on a normal day, and the
listening agencies with be working with a greater intensity," she said. "But
while they took place some six years later, the inquests into the 52 people
murdered 10 years ago exposed some of the failings of the emergency response.
The UK's ability to respond to terrorist attacks has improved significantly
since 7/7."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 3:17 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: British Muslims use 'breaking the fast' at Ramadan to remember
victims;
Mosques in London, Birmingham and Nottingham will dedicate their 'Iftar' meal at
sundown to the victims and survivors of the 2005 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Alice Harrold

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 458 words


Mosques all over the UK will open their doors to people of all faiths and none
tonight during the "Iftar" meal at sunset on the 10th anniversary of the London
7/7 bombings.

The "Peace Iftars", which have already begun taking place, are a chance to
"remember and pray for all victims of terrorism and stand in solidarity in
peace".

Today's events are set to take place around the country with mosques inviting
their local communities to join in commemoration and to "break bread with
Muslims as they break their fast in this holy month of Ramadan". A national
"Iftar" has been organised at the Islamic Cultural Centre in London.

The Islamic Cultural Centre said: "Our thoughts, our prayers and condolences go
out to all the victims of these terrible terrorist attacks."

"As citizens and co-workers of this great city, we share the concerns and fears
of fellow Londoners. We use the same transport and live and work in the same
buildings and any attack is an attack on us all."

The @MuslimCouncil#PeaceIftar is underway on the tenth anniversary of the
#LondonBombingspic.twitter.com/1YjS8uGByM - MCB (@MuslimCouncil) July 6, 2015

At Friday prayers this week, the Muslim Council urged imams to discuss the 7/7
anniversary and more recent terror attacks including in Tunisia. The religious
leaders were encouraged to remind people "that these killers do not respect the
sanctity of life as laid down in Islam".

Dr Shuja Shafi, Secretary General of the Muslim Council of Britain said:
"Despite the evil that was visited upon us on 7/7, we come here hoping for peace
and praying for a world free from violence."

When the bombings took place, he said, "many in our city pulled together, united
in their condemnation of terrorism, and in their determination to help the
victims."

"The best way to defy the terrorist is to increase our bonds of unity, not to
single out any one group of people for blame".

"Our community", he said, "has struggled to find a coherent and compelling voice
to counter the narrative that terrorists thrive on...precisely because the
terrorists recruit outside of mosques and from the fringes of the internet."

Dr Shafi called for the British Muslim community to redouble its efforts to
"provide a stronger voice and platform for young people, one where they can
express their anxieties and engage confidently without being labelled as
extremist."

Britain should "claim back the spirit of the 7/7 fight back, where we as
communities stood together", he said. "We start by remembering and praying for
the victims, and praying for peace."

Read more:Only Muslim survivor of 7/7 says Britain must combat IslamophobiaPeace
Journey: young people retrace 200-mile route taken by bombers7/7 bombings: Who
were the 52 victims of the London terror attacks?

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 2:03 PM GMT

London 7/7 bombings anniversary: Commuters 'walk together' in memory of 52
people killed in terror attack a decade ago;
Services scheduled across London a decade after attacks that injured hundreds

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 578 words


People have taken to the capital's streets to 'walk together' on the tenth
anniversary of the London 7/7 bombings in which 52 people were killed in four
terror attacks.

The London Tubes came to a halt at 11.30am to allow passengers a minute of
silence, as commuters were encouraged to 'walk together' by getting off their
Tube a stop early and walking to their destination, in an act of remembrance for
victims.

St Paul's Cathedral also held a service at 11am, attended by the families of
those who died and some of those injured when three Tubes and a bus were bombed
on 7th July 2005. Among the speakers was a young Londoner and the Bishop of
London, who spoke of the great diversity of the victims and of London itself -
and how instead of anger there was a huge outpouring of solidarity following the
atrocity.

READ MORE: 7/7 bombings timeline: How the day unfoldedPolice officer recalls the
horrific scene at Edgware RoadVictims of attacks to be remembered in London on
10th anniversary

The attack, the worst single terrorist atrocity on British soil, saw three
suicide bombers detonate devices just after 8.50am in three Tube stops. 26
people died after a bomb exploded at Russell Square, Piccadilly, six were killed
at Edgware Road on the Circle line and seven at Aldgate station.

An hour after the first three explosions, a fourth terrorist detonated his
device on a packed double-decker London bus in Tavistock Square, killing 13
people.

More than 700 people were injured in the attacks.

In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

The names of the murdered 52 were read in St Paul's as part of the national
service of commemoration. The service marked the minute's silence with a cascade
of petals released from the Dome of the church and four candles, lit earlier
today at each site of attack, were carried into the building.

The minute silence was observed at Wimbledon, where play started at the later
time of 11.45am, images on social media showed the crowds and staff standing in
silence. Elsewhere in London, in Tavistock Square a short memorial was held to
remember. 110 people were injured in the square.

Read more: How Britain has changed since the 7/7 bombingsOnly Muslim survivor of
7/7 bombings warns against Islamophobia

The 'Walk together' initiative, started by thinktank British Future, is thought
to recall the hours following the devastating attacks when thousands walked
through London's streets after public transport networks shut down. The hashtag
#WalkTogether trended on Twitter in London for much of the morning as thousands
photographed themselves taking part and shared their memories of the day a
decade ago.

Early this morning at 8.50am - the time the first explosive was detonated -
representatives from the police, ambulance and fire crews laid wreaths at the
Hyde Park memorial. The Duke of Cambridge is expected to join victims' families
and emergency staff at the memorial this afternoon for a more informal memorial
service including songs, recitals and a reading.

The bombings were carried out by four British men, Mohammad Siqique Khan, 30,
Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Germaine Lindsay, 19, who had links
to Al-Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The anniversary comes as a British think-tank warms the UK is more under threat
now than it was when the 7/7 bombings occurred.

Experts at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) claim the threat level is
at "severe," meaning an attack is "highly likely".

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:51 PM GMT

7/7 anniversary one-minute silence: Capital's public transport comes to a
standstill as Londoners remember terror attack;
Video: Tube stations across the capital paid their respect to the

BYLINE: Kiran Moodley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 148 words


London's 150-year-old tube network that carries over a billion passengers every
year came to a halt to mark the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 terror attacks.

On July 7 2005, four British men, inspired by al Qaeda and angered by the Iraq
War, blew themselves up on three London Underground trains and one bus, claiming
the lives of 52 people and injuring over 700.

At 8:50am, the moment when the first bomb detonated, one-minute silence was held
at the memorial to the victims at London's Hyde Park, with Prime Minister David
Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson laying wreaths. Across London, survivors
and transport staff laid flowers at the sites of the four bombings. Many
Londoners even walked part of their commute to honour the victims.

At 11:30am, a minute's silence was held across the capital.

You can watch the various ceremonies that took place across the capital in the
video above.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:48 PM GMT

7/7 bombings anniversary: The Independent's coverage of the London bombings the
day after the terror attack;
52 people died and 700 were injured in the attacks which was the single worst
terror atrocity on British soil

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2892 words


On the day following the 7/7 London bombings, this is what The Independent
published.

"Like millions of other Londoners, Michael Henning began his daily Tube journey
to work yesterday with the confetti from the joyous Olympic celebrations of the
day before still strewn about the streets of the capital.

Heading from Kensington to his offices in east London, Mr Henning watched as
fellow passengers on the packed Circle line train scanned newspapers full of
good news for once, p r o-claiming victory in the battle for the 2012 Games.

"London's Triumph," proclaimed one headline. "Gold Rush", said another. There
was a light drizzle as people made their usual trek into work, but it didn't
seem to matter; London was on a roll, and it felt good.

Then, it began. Tube trains ground to a halt all over London. Drivers announced
over the on-board public address systems that a "power surge" on the track had
closed down the network.

Mobile phones started buzzing with startling rumours: that there were explosions
across the city. Aldgate, King's Cross, Edgware Road, all were said to have been
at the centre of "incidents". Then word swept the city by phone and e-mail that
a bus had exploded in central London.

Before the rush hour was over, dreams of Olympic glory had been forgotten.
Terrorists had struck in three co-ordinated bomb attacks which hit London's
claustrophobic peak-hour Tube trains, two of which were in tunnels, causing
dozens of deaths and hundreds of injuries. A fourth bomb - possibly the work of
a suicide bomber - exploded on a crowded bus, killing at least two more people.
Last night 37 people were confirmed dead. More than 700 were injured, some
critically. It was the bloodiest attack on Britain since the Second World War.
Fate saved Mr Henning, 39, a Lloyds banker, who missed his usual train. He tried
to get on to another but was forced out by the sheer weight of numbers,and moved
down the platform to another carriage. At 8.51am, the carriage he had tried to
enter exploded. "There was a flash of light and everything went black," Mr
Henning said. "You couldn't see; you could just hear shouting and screaming. We
managed to find a way out. What we left behind was absolute carnage."

That bomb and the two that followed within 26 minutes were the first successful
bomb attack on the London Underground in its142-year history. Then, as commuters
reeling from one of the explosions looked for other transport, the packed bus
exploded. There had been no intelligence indicating an attack was imminent. Nor
was there a warning. Police were investigating whether it was the first time a
suicide bomber had operated on British soil, and there were warnings that the
crisis may not yet be over.

The entire Tube system, the world's largest, remained closed last night, as
rescue workers continued to toil in the carriages mangled by the explosions,
attempting to retrieve the remaining bodies.

It quickly became apparent that al-Qa'ida - or those acting in its name- had
finally decided, as many had predicted it would, to attack London at its most
vulnerable point. A claim of responsibility was made on the Al-Qal'ah- The
Fortress - internet site, by a previously unheard-of group calling itself the
Secret Organisation Group of al-Qa'ida of Jihad Organisation in Europe. Although
police and e m e r-gency services responded quickly with a carefully prepared
major incident plan, the attacks came only a few weeks after the security level
in the capital had been downgraded to one of the lowest levels since the 2001
attacks in the US.

Questions were being asked about how such an attack could have happened during
the G8 Summit when security services might have been expected to be on maximum
alert. Last night, a number of Metropolitan Police officers deployed in Scotland
were returning to the capital.

The London attacks are likely to lead to demands for tougher anti-terrorism
laws, particularly the introduction of identity cards. They left Muslim leaders,
who condemned the bombings, deeply anxious about the effect on their
communities' relations with the rest of Britain.

At Gleneagles, a distraught-looking Tony Blair insisted the G8 meeting would
continue: "It is important ... that those e n-gaged in terrorism realise that
our determination to defend our values and our way of life is greater than their
determination to cause death and d e-struction to innocent people in a desire to
impose extremism on the world. Whatever they do, it is our determination that
they will never succeed in destroying what we hold dear in this country and in
other civilised nations throughout the world.'' His words were echoed short-l y
afterwards by President George Bush: "It's a war on terror for us all.'' He
added: "We will not yield to these people;we will not yield to the terrorists."

The attacks were also condemned by other world leaders, including the Pope,
while the Queen sent a message of sympathy to the victims and ordered the flag
on Buckingham Palace to be flown at half mast.

The attack on London began, as did those on New Yo rk in September 2001 and in
Madrid in March 2004, just before 9am. At 8.51, a Circle line train heading into
Liverpool Street station. The huge complex, the confluence of several
underground as well as overground lines from north and east London, carrying
commuters in and out of the City, was rocked by a huge explosion. Terry O'Shea,
42, a construction worker from Worcester, said: "I was in the carriage behind
where the explosion was. There was a loud bang and we felt the train shudder.
Then smoke started coming into the compartment. It was terrible. People were
panicking, but they calmed down after one or two minutes.As they led us down the
track past the carriage where the explosion was, we could see the roof was torn
off it, and there were bodies on the track."

Jack Linton, 14, from Hawk-swell, Essex, who suffered cuts on his face, said:
"There was a massive explosion, smoke and flames. My carriage must have been two
away from where it was. Everybody got on the floor. Then eventually the smoke
cleared and we managed to open the central doors down the train to go to the
back of it before they walked us along the track past the train to the station.
The middle of the train was blown out and there were people on the track. I've
got glass in my hair and my pockets and my ear hurts."

Many people were trapped for up to 40 minutes. Sarah Reid, 23, a student doing
work experience, was in the carriage next door to the one struck by the
explosion. "There was a fire outside the carriage window and then there was a
sudden jolt which shook us forward. The explosion was behind me. Some people
took charge. We went out of the back of the carriage. "A carriage was split in
two, all jagged, and without a roof. I saw bodies, I think," she added. Seven
people are believed to have died on that train.

Within a few minutes, at 8.56, the Underground was rocked by a second blast, a
few miles to the north-west, where the southbound Piccadilly line sweeps in from
north London.

In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

Underneath the elegant streets of Bloomsbury, between King's Cross and Russell
Square stations, another bomb exploded; it is believed that at least 21 people
died. Reaching this deep-lying Tube line became a much more difficult task for
the rescue workers than at Liverpool Street, where the older Circle and
Metropolitan lines were built much closer to the surface. Passengers were
trapped for more than two hours.

While the emergency services were rushing to both scenes, there was a third
explosion, at 9.17am, several miles to the west, at Edgware Road station, this
time on another Circle line train heading west. The explosion ripped through a
wall in the tunnel and blew a hole in a train trave l l i n g east on another
track. Seven people died.

Simon Corvett, 26, from Oxford, was on the eastbound train. He said: "All of
sudden there was this massive huge bang. It was absolutely deafening and all the
windows shattered. The glass did not actually fall out of the windows, it just
cracked. The train came to a grinding halt, everyone fell off their seats.

"There were just loads of people screaming and the carriages filled with smoke,
Yo u couldn't really breathe and you couldn't see what was happening. The driver
came on the Tannoy and said,'We have got a problem, don't panic'."

Mr Corvett joined other passengers to force open the train doors with a fire
extinguisher. Dozens of them escaped down the tunnel. Recalling his ordeal. his
face covered in soot, he said the carriage on the other track was destroyed.
"You could see the carriage opposite was completely gutted. There were some
people in real trouble."

By now, the Underground network was rapidly grinding to a halt as trains were
stopped and backed up in stations. Fear, panic and confusion began to spread
through the system as survivors staggered out of stations to be met by scores of
ambulance crews and firefighters.

Just after 9.30am, Transport for London took the decision to close the system,
evacuating scores of stations. Still not sure of what had happened, senior
Scotland Yard officers were still working on the assumption that some kind of
catastrophic power surge was to blame.

But that assumption soon began to look questionable. At 9.47am, in Tavistock
Square, just south of Euston Road, a number 30 bus travelling from Hackney to
Marble Arch, which had been boarded by several people who had been evacuated
from the Underground, was ripped apart by a huge explosion.

It remained unclear last night how many people had died, but the number is
believed to be in double figures. Witnesses spoke of seeing bodies flung out of
the upper deck.

Ayobami Bello, 46, a security guard at the nearby London School of Tropical
Hygiene and Medicine, said the blast completely blew the bus apart.

"It was terrible: the bus went to pieces," Mr Bello said. "There were so many
bodies on the floor. The back was completely gone. It was blown off completely
and a dead body was hanging out and there were dead bodies on the road. It was a
horrible thing."

He said other bodies sat slumped in their bus seats, some with arms and legs
missing: "I can't believe it. I can't even believe I survived it. There was
panic and everyone was running for their lives. I saw a lady coming towards me
soaked inblood. Everyone was in confusion."

Andrew Childes, 36, a cycle courier, was on his way to the British Medical
Association's headquarters in Tavistock Place. He said: "I heard a bang, a
thudding, deep sound. There was a big cloud of grey smoke. I was about 250
metres away at the time and I stopped in my tracks and didn't go any further. I
waited for a bit and then went to see what had happened. The bus was just
splintered metal, and it was all bent over. The top part of the bus was
completely exposed, as if the roof had been ripped off it.

"There was a bit of panic going on, a few screams and shouts, but there wasn't
massive panic. The police were already there because of what was happening on
the Tube and quickly got things under control.

"I didn't see if anyone was on the bus or if anybody was hurt. Somebody told me
they saw the driver running away from the bus but I don't know if that's true.''
BMA staff came out to treat the injured, and their building was turned into an
impromptu casualty station. Police were still trying to establish last night
whether a suicide bomber had been on board, and if so, whether the bomb was
being taken to another Tube station and was detonated earlier, either
accidentally or deliberately. The bus had been diverted from its normal route
which may have caused the bomber to panic.

As news of the explosions spread, there was panic, transport chaos and confusion
across central London and parts of the City. Evacuees from the Underground
system attempted to board buses only to find them stuck in traffic and,
eventually, they were ordered to stay where they were. Mainline trains into
London were halted and mobile phone networks collapsed under the pressure of
thousands of calls.

Emergency services implemented the major incident plan, putting hospitals
throughout the capital on alert and summoning help from adjacent authorities. At
the London Hospital on Mile End Road, a short distance from Aldgate, more than
100 people were treated and air ambulances lined up to land on its helipad.
Fleets of commandeered buses took dozens of slightly injured people to hospital.

The bombs were condemned by the nation's religious leaders, and many clergy
turned out to help with rescue operations. Steve Nichols, London Underground
chaplain, was counselling the emergency services in St Botolph's Church near
Aldgate station. He said: "There was one poor lady who had been impaled by one
of the poles in the train and she was still alive. The people have been picking
up various body parts. It is obviously very grim and there aren't really words
to describe it. I guess you could say I've been caring for the carers."

At Gleneagles, Tony Blair and the other world leaders were informed by their
aides. After his first of three statements of the day, an anguished looking Mr
Blair flew by helicopter back to London.

In a televised statement from Downing Street last night he promised intense
police and security service action to bring the bombers to justice and he
repeated his "profound condolences" to the families of the victims. Mr Blair
said: "It is through terrorism that the people that have committed these
terrible acts express their values and it is right at this moment that we
demonstrate ours.

"I think we all know what they are trying to do. They are trying to use the
slaughter of innocent people to cow us, to frighten us out of doing the things
that we want to do, trying to stop us from going about our business as normal,
as we are entitled to do, and they should not, and they must not succeed. When
they try to intimidate us, we will not be intimidated. When they seek to change
our country or our way of life by these methods, we will not be changed.''

Mr Blair later visited Scotland Yard's control room. He returned to the G8
Summit at Gleneagles last night which had been chaired by Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw in his absence. While in London, Mr Blair also chaired a meeting of the
Cobra Committee, the Cabinet Office body which oversees such crises; the
committee was convened hours earlier, chaired by Charles Clarke, the Home
Secretary. Initially, Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner
announced there had been six explosions, but it is believed this was because of
the confusion from the bombs being in the tunnels between Russell Square and
King's Cross and between Liverpool Street and Aldgate. Sir Ian warned the public
to "stay where they were''. Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London, still in
Singapore where he had spent the previous night celebrating the success of the
London bid, issued a strong con-demnation of the attacks: "I want to say one
thing: This was not a terrorist attack against the mighty or the powerful, it is
not aimed at presidents or prime ministers, it was aimed at ordinary
working-class Londoners. That isn't an ideology, it isn't even a perverted faith
- it's mass murder. We know what the objective is. They seek to divide London."
The London Olympic bid committee was adamant that the Games would not be
affected but said that they were "devastated". Keith Mills, chief executive of
London's bid team, said: "I'm totally distraught. I think it goes to demonstrate
that no city in the world can escape terrorism these days. Even London, which
has probably the best and most sophisticated security services in the world,
finds it difficult to dealwith these sorts of attacks." Mr Mills said the London
contingent was "completely and utterly devastated ... This is our town, our
city, our home. We're praying for the people who have been affected."

The attacks also had their effect on the City, where the FTSE 100 Index plunged
more than 200 points in the immediate aftermath of the explosions; it recovered
some of its poise during the afternoon, to limit the losses to less than 100
points. Shares in hotel operations, airlines and luxury goods were worst
affect-e d. Many banks and trading houses were eitherevacuated or found staff
unable to reach their desks. The London Stock Exchange remained open but took
action, such as asking traders to switch off certain electronic trading systems
to prevent a more volatile response.

Last night, as scores of people were still being treated in hospitals, scores of
shows and events across London were cancelled after police asked people not to
travel into the West End.

Amid chaos on the jammed roads, with buses operating a limited service and Tube
lines closed, police and security officials warned that they could not be sure
the attacks were finished. Andy Trotter, the deputy chief constable of British
Transport Police, said: "This is an extremely challenging time for London and we
do not know whether it's over yet."

Michael Henning was one of the lucky ones. After treatment for head and eye
injuries at the Royal London Hospital, he left for home, still in shock that he
had survived. "It was unbelievable," he said. "I could have been killed I just
can't believe what I've gone though today. I'm just so very, very lucky."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 12:41 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: Who were the 52 victims of the London terror attacks?;
Half died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 3520 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade, from Romford, in
Essex.

Mr Baisden had to grow up quickly. He became the man of the house after his
father Patrick died in 1992 and spent much of his time caring for his mother,
who has multiple sclerosis.

He had hoped to marry his partner Paul Groman before he was killed.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an IT business analyst from Norwich who worked for a
publishing company.

Born in Rome, she was brought up in Italy but a passion for languages and travel
led her to move to England at the age of 19.

She was two months away from marrying her fiance Fiaz Bhatti when she died.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker for photographic chain Jessops from Ipswich,
Suffolk.

The eldest of three children, Mr Ellery was born and raised in Southampton, left
school at 18 and moved in with friends in Ipswich shortly before he died.

Jessops closed all its 280 stores to mark a national two-minute silence a week
after the bombings.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich, Suffolk.

Mr Gray was born in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, and met his wife Louise in 1987
when she started a part-time job at the Ipswich hotel owned by his parents. They
went on to have two children, Adam and Ruby.

He qualified as a chartered accountant specialising in tax and commuted every
day from Ipswich to his job with FW Smith Riches and Company in Pall Mall,
central London.

In pictures: The 10th anniversary of the 7/7 London bombings

Anne Moffat, 48, head of marketing and communications for Girlguiding UK, from
Old Harlow, Essex.

Miss Moffat studied art in Hull before moving to London but she returned to the
family home in Old Harlow to look after her ailing mother, who died in 2002.

She was committed to helping others, and a "Make Poverty History" booklet was
found in her handbag when her body was recovered.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London, originally from
Little Baddow, Essex.

Miss Stevenson had dreamed of becoming a lawyer as a teenager when at school in
Chelmsford and went on to Sussex University before fulfilling her ambition.

She joined specialist criminal law firm Reynolds Dawson but died just two weeks
after buying a new flat in central London.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts, from
Billericay, Essex.

Miss Taylor, who was born in Sidcup, Kent, and grew up in Billericay, discovered
a passion for drama at a young age and went on to study it at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

Her ambition was to work behind the scenes in the arts and she was given a
permanent job at the Royal Society of Arts three days before her death.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Swanwick,
Derbyshire.

Mr Brewster, who was known as Stan, was a senior project manager for Derbyshire
County Council, where his main interests were the design and structure of
bridges.

A keen cyclist who rode 12 miles to work every day, he also played football and
golf and took part in triathlons to raise money for a local hospital.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

The Liverpool FC fan, who was brought up in Corby, Northamptonshire, was
planning to move to Ireland with his wife Veronica.

Kensington and Chelsea Council, where he worked, placed a bench outside the town
hall in his memory.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Mr Foulkes was educated at Hulme Grammar School, where he became a member of the
team that won the Greater Manchester under-16 squash championship.

He had just begun a new job with The Guardian newspaper and travelled to London
on July 7 for a work meeting.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Born in Bristol, she underwent major surgery to correct a curvature of the spine
while at school before studying music and English at Reading University.

The opera fan planned to do a PhD, marry her soulmate James White and had spoken
of her hopes of becoming a mother.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

The father-of-three grew up in Coulsdon in Surrey, Leeds and Liverpool before
going to university in London, where he met his wife Ros.

He was responsible for the popular mobile phone campaign: "Who would you like to
have a one to one with?"

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked as a personal assistant
for an advertising firm in Paddington.

Miss Webb, who was brought up in Kingston Vale, Surrey, was a passionate
globetrotter who spent nearly a year travelling through Thailand, Australia and
South America with her boyfriend, Chris Driver, before they cut their trip short
after the 9/11 attacks.

She and Mr Driver planned to spend the rest of their lives together and were
intending to buy a home, marry and have a family.

Twenty-six died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Mr Adams was born in Chester and educated at the King's School in Peterborough,
where he shared bunk beds with Labour MP David Lammy.

He was a committed Christian who served as a deacon at his church for three
years. An orphanage he supported in southern India erected a building in his
memory.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Mr Harris, who grew up in Hereford, worked for architecture firm 3DReid on
projects including Heathrow Airport's central bus station and the Terminal 1
international departures lounge.

He died alongside his partner Miss Badham, whom he met at Hereford Lads Club
some 14 years before the attacks.

Samantha Badham, 35, an internet designer who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Hereford-born Miss Badham was head girl at the John Masefield High School in
Ledbury, Herefordshire, before studying history at Birmingham University.

She and her long-term partner Lee Harris were killed together after they changed
their normal routine and took the Tube because they were planning to meet
friends after work.

Philip Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Mr Beer started work at a salon after leaving school at 16 and dreamed of
travelling the world as a well-known hairdresser.

His friend and colleague Patrick Barnes, who was travelling with him on the
train targeted by suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, said Mr Beer's last words to
him after the attack were: "Everything's going to be fine."

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

The mother-of-two ran her own restaurant in Poland before coming to the UK in
2002.

On the day she was killed, her daughter Natalie had arrived to visit her in
London but they missed each other before the tragedy.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

The passionate Arsenal fan came from a large Irish family and worked for a legal
and stationery firm in Chancery Lane.

At the time of his death he had been saving up to go to Australia, and his
family had expected him to move there permanently because the lifestyle would
have suited his laid-back personality.

Rachelle Chung For Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

The devout Roman Catholic grew up on Mauritius, the eldest of three sisters, and
worked to pay her own way through her accountancy studies.

She came to Britain in 2000 to complete her training and married her husband
Billy in London in May 2004.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Leicester-born Miss Daplyn was a talented artist and musician who graduated from
Oxford University in 2001 with a degree in fine art.

She lived in a variety of places, including Pakistan and Nigeria, before moving
into a flat with her boyfriend, Rob Brennan, several months before her death.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from the Caribbean.

Born in Grenada, Mr Frederick moved to Montserrat as a young man and worked
there as a policeman for nearly 32 years as well as recording a calypso song
called Signs of Christmas that is still popular on the island.

He moved to London after becoming worried about the eruption of Montserrat's
Soufriere Hills volcano in the late 1990s.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Miss Gluck was born in the town of Chorzow in Poland and followed her twin
sister Magda to London in 2002.

At the time of her death she and her sister were planning to return to Poland
the next month to introduce their boyfriends to their family.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Istanbul-born Miss Gunoral, an only child who was brought up by her mother after
her parents divorced when she was five, excelled at school and graduated from
university as an actuary in 2003.

The ambitious businesswoman came to Britain after deciding to take a year's
break from her job with Turkey's largest export company to improve her English.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker from Luton.

Mrs Ikeagwu was born in Nigeria and came to Britain in 1976 with her husband and
their three young children.

She was devoted to her family and a generous supporter of children in her home
village in Nigeria, which following her death made her a chief and named its
primary school after her.

Emily Jenkins, 24, a PA for a project management company, who lived in Peckham,
south-east London.

Miss Jenkins, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, travelled widely. She lived
in South America, Spain and Australia before returning to Britain and setting
her heart on becoming a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager from
Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

His work for luxury fashion house Burberry took him all over Europe, including a
lot of time in Italy and the company's base in Haymarket in London.

Mr Johnson met his future wife Catherine at school when they were 15, and his
ambition was to see his family comfortable and his children grow up.

Helen Jones, 28, an accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Miss Jones was born in Edinburgh but grew up in Templand near Lockerbie. She
moved to London in November 2001 and worked for Phoenix Equity Partners.

Accountant colleagues called her "Sherlock Jones" because she was so good at
sniffing out mistakes.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two from the village of Newgate Street, near
Cuffley, Hertfordshire, who worked as a legal secretary.

She married husband Harry in 1976 and they set up home in Ilford where they
lived for 24 years before moving to Hertfordshire.

Her eldest son, Daniel, lived in Australia but said the important part of his
day was switching on his computer in the morning to find a message from his
mother waiting for him.

Shelley Mather, 26, a tour guide from New Zealand who had been living in London
for three years.

Miss Mather, the only New Zealander to die in the bombings, left her country in
2002 for a tour of Europe and enjoyed the lifestyle so much she qualified as a
travel guide.

Such was her love of travel that her ambition was to "circumnavigate the
universe".

Mike Minh Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

He was born in My Tho, south Vietnam, five months before his father was shot
dead by a drunken soldier.

Mr Matsushita later moved to New York with his mother and grew up in the Bronx
but had only been in London a month after moving to be with his girlfriend Rosie
Cowan.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

With a keen intellect and love of debate, he attended City of London School then
studied politics at the University of Warwick.

He normally would not have been on the Piccadilly line train but was going to a
seminar in Holborn in central London on July 7.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mrs Mozakka was born in Shiraz, Iran, before moving to the capital Tehran, where
she met her husband Naber, with whom she had a son, Saeed, and daughter, Saba.

Her family were at one point wrongly told she had survived the blast for up to
45 minutes, but in fact she died instantly.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Miss Otto was brought up in Romania and moved to London in 1984, following in
the footsteps of her sister Dania.

Arriving in England she worked in a series of jobs, including as a Burberry
sales assistant and in publishing, before qualifying in dentistry.

Atique Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

He arrived in England in 2002 fearing for his life and having fled extremists in
his homeland after both his parents were killed in the Kabul war.

Mr Sharifi dreamed of becoming a doctor, but in his spare time he worked in a
pizza take-away so he could send money back to his sister in Afghanistan.

Ihab Slimane, 24, a waiter who lived in Finsbury Park, north London.

Mr Slimane was born in Lyon, France, but was of Tunisian descent.

The IT engineering graduate had been living in the capital for just three weeks
when he was killed, but had already made new friends and impressed work
colleagues.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

The keen sportsman and Luton Town FC fan was drawn to West Africa, particularly
Ghana and Senegal, because the region was his ancestral home.

To reflect his West African roots he changed his name by deed poll shortly
before he died to Christian Njoya Diawara, meaning a man of determination and
strong spirit.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Ms Suchocka's ambition to work as a translator took her to Italy, France, United
States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany.

She only moved to London three months before the attacks and was considering
whether to move back to Poland after her job finished in October 2005.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

She was born in Nairobi, Kenya, and moved to London to study at Lambeth
Hospital. She married her husband Ashock in 1975 and had one son, Kunaal.

Her colleagues said she had the potential to attain a senior role at Great
Ormond Street.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Mr Fatayi-Williams was educated in Nigeria, France and the UK before joining
multinational engineering firm Amec.

On the morning of July 7 2005, he set off as usual for his office in Old Street,
central London, but his journey was disrupted by the chaos caused by the earlier
bombings on three Tube trains and he helped point other commuters in the right
direction before getting on the number 30 bus.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Born in south London, he moved to Zimbabwe with his family as a small child
before later returning to the UK where he achieved well at school and then in
his career.

We was killed on July 7 after taking a different route to the office from usual
after spending the night with a friend from work.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer from Hornchurch, Essex.

Born in Sudan to English parents, Mr Hart moved to the UK at the age of five. He
was passionate about literature and cinema history, and devoted much time to
campaigning for justice and liberty.

He was heavily involved in the Polish solidarity movement, through which he met
his wife Danuta, with whom he had two children. After his death he was awarded
one of Poland's most prestigious honours for his services to democracy.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, worked for a greetings card
firm.

She and her husband David were described as "soul mates" who lived "totally" for
their sons Liam and Aiden.

A talented artist, Mrs Hartley was in London on the morning of 7/7 to attend an
exhibition in Islington, north London, with a colleague.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

She was born at London's University College Hospital, graduated from University
College London and lost her life in Tavistock Square - all within about one
square mile.

Before her death, she was planning to set up her own greeting card company
called Mimento, a play on her nickname "Mim".

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

The East Ender was a Londoner and British but "above all a true Muslim and proud
to be so", her relatives said.

Following travel disruption on the morning of July 7, she boarded the number 30
bus with a colleague, Emma Plunkett, who survived the blast.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Born in New Delhi in India, she moved to the UK with her family in 1968.

At the time of her death she had recently started a new job with an IT firm
called TXT4 based in Hoxton Square, east London, and was about to marry her
partner.

Sam Ly, 28, a computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Born in Vietnam, My Ly moved with his family to Melbourne, Australia, as a
refugee when he was a toddler.

He proposed to his girlfriend, Mandy Ha, at the age of five when they were at
primary school together, and they went on to become a couple at university
before moving to London in 2003.

Shyanuja Niroshini Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise,
north London.

Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka, she came to London with her family aged just 19
months and went on to graduate from London's South Bank University with a degree
in business studies and administration.

Ms Parathasangary was especially close to her sister, and the two women were
refurbishing a house with a view to moving in together at the time of her death.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Born in Israel, she moved to London where she enjoyed going out almost every
night to ballet, contemporary dance, theatre, opera and concerts.

She was also an obsessive buyer of shoes, costume jewellery and quirky handbags.
After her death, the sale of her "vast" collection raised a huge amount of money
for Wizo, the international Jewish women's organisation.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

Mr Russell grew up in Kent and graduated from Kingston University with a degree
in business studies.

He then followed his passion for travelling with a solo trip to South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand before finding work in the City of London. After
joining JP Morgan Asset Management, he was promoted twice in the 20 months
before his death.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

The son of a GP, Mr Wise grew up in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, and went on to
marry his wife Christine in 1976.

Although the pair separated in 1997, they got back together two years before he
was killed in the Tavistock Square bombing.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Born in Ghana to a poor cocoa farming family, she moved to London in 1983 as the
maid of a Lebanese family. She met her husband, Emmanuel, in 1986 and they had a
son and a daughter.

She was planning to return to her homeland with her husband when she was
murdered.

Read more: 7/7 bombings timeline: How the day unfoldedFour emergency workers who
saved lives recall 7/7Only Muslim survivor of 7/7 warns against Islamophobia

Press Association

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 12:41 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: How the papers covered the news following the attack that killed
52;
52 people died in the worst single terror attack on Britsh soil

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 255 words


The London 7/7 bombings ten years ago today were the single largest terror
atrocity committed on British soil.

On 8th July, when many details surrounding events were only just emerging, this
is how the major British nationals covered the story.

London's Evening Standard, which appears most days at around 3pm, was the first
paper to publish a story on the atrocity, with many details still unsure and
London's transport network still locked down.

The following morning every newspaper's front page - and inside papers - was
dominated by the attacks with TheDaily Telegraph and The Times both using the
photograph of a young man helping a woman with a medical face-mask covering her
face.

(The Standard also used the same the image but the previous day.)

The Mirror said that London was 'Bloodied by unbowed', while the Daily Star and
Express were more confrontational in their approach.

The Sun's original story claimed that 53 people had died, but this was later
revised down to the 52 people who lost their lives.

The Daily Mail, The Sun and the Guardian all elected to use the image of the
destroyed No.30 on their front. It would become one of the most iconic images of
the event.

Metro included in its frontpage coverage a message to all the commuters, "Our
readers", traveling that day: "Our thoughts are with you all, especially those
who lost loved ones, or who were injured in the attacks".

Finally, this is how The Independent covered the news.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 11:54 AM GMT

7/7 bombings anniversary live: Minute's silence observed on London Underground
and in commemorative services across capital;
52 people died and 700 were injured in terror attacks ten years ago

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 229 words


Here are the latest updates:

● Commuters urged to 'walk together' in memory of victims

● 7/7 bombings timeline:  How the day unfolded

● Police officer recalls the horrific scene at Edgware Road

● Who were the 52 victims of the London terror attacks?

● Profiles of the four bombers

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load

Commemorative services are being held in across London today in memory of the 52
people who were killed in the 7 July terror attacks ten years ago.

A service at St Paul's Cathedral started at 11am, with survivors and families'
of the victims in attendance. Later in the day a more informal service will be
held at the Hyde Park memorial for families.

This morning, Prime Minister David Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson have
both laid wreaths alongside fire and police officials at the dedicated memorial.

Mohammad Siqique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Germaine
Lindsay, 19, who had links to Al-Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan, detonated
explosive devices on busy commuter trains.

READ MORE: #WalkTogether trends on Twitter in London7/7 bombings timeline: How
the day unfolded

Three devices went off underground at 8.50am, with a third exploding on a
double-decker London bus an hour after the first three. More than 700 people
were injured in the single worst terror attack on British soil.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 2:52 PM GMT

#walktogether: Thousands of defiant London commuters get off the Tube early and
walk their final stop in memory of the 52 people who died in 7/7 terror attacks
10 years ago today

BYLINE: JENNIFER SMITH FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 749 words



     ·    Commuters shared their poignant tributes to the victims of the 7/7
          bombings online as they walked to work today
     ·    Scores held up signs with the words #walktogether while others held
          hands and posted photographs of their feet
     ·    David Cameron and Boris Johnson were joined by politicians at a Hyde
          Park Memorial wreath-laying ceremony
     ·    It is ten years to the day that 52 people were killed and 700 injured
          in a series of blasts detonated across London


It is ten years to the day that the country suffered one of its most abhorrent
attacks on freedom.

And as Britain remembers the events of 7/7/2005, thousands have put on a defiant
display in the face of the ever-encroaching threat of terror.

In memory of those killed in the bombings a decade ago, commuters across London
and the rest of the UK today stepped off the train, Tube and bus one stop early
to walk the remainder of their journey.

Scroll down for video

Uniting in their tributes to the dead, they shared photographs of the poignant
gesture on Twitter accompanied with the words #walktogether.

Some held signs bearing the phrase while others photographed their feet and held
hands, posting their photographs on social media. Others accompanied their posts
with the hashtags #sevenseven to commemorate the date.

Most of the posts were left by Londoners, some of whom had been living in the
capital ten years ago when the atrocities were carried out.

One such Londoner,  Andrew Dysch, shared a photograph of the very shoes he was
wearing on July 7 in 2005 in memory of those who did not survive.

Their posts were left in tribute to those slaughtered ten years ago today when a
group of four suicide bombers with links to al Qaeda detonated a collection of
explosives across London's transport network.

Three were left on the Tube - at Aldgate, Edgeware Road, Kings Cross stations -
while one was detonated on the top deck of a bus at Taverstock Square.

Bouquets of flowers were left at each site today with passers-by stopping to
observe them in quiet reflection throughout the morning. Among the visitors were
members of their families and other Londoners who were caught up in the day's
horror.

Bus driver George Psaradakis, who was driving the number 30 bus when Hasib
Hussain detonated a bomb, was one of them.

The Greek-national wept as he clutched a bunch of flowers in Tavistock Square,
the scene where 13 people, including the 18-year-old terrorist, were killed on
the top floor of his bus.

A one minute silence was observed across the capital at 11.30am as a memorial
service at St Pauls concluded. The Prime Minister, Boris Johnson and Prince
Andrew were among those in attendance at the emotionally-charged service.

Former Prime Minister Tony Blair and his wife Cherie were also at the ceremony.
Following the minute's silence, flower petals fell from the cathedral's dome and
four candles were lit for each of the blast sites.

Giving an address at the service, the Bishop of London Richard Chartres said:
'Soon after 7/7 the families and friends of the victims compiled a book of
tributes.

'It is a taste of the ocean of pain surrounding the loss of each one of the
victims.The tribute book is also very revealing about the character of the
London which the bombers attacked.

'The majority of the victims were young. They came from all over the UK and all
over the world.'

Dr David Ison, dean of St Paul's Cathedral, began the service by telling the
congregation: 'We come together to share our grief and to comfort one another;
to find strength and to foster resilience; and to affirm that even in our
darkest hour the light of faith and the flame of hope burn strong.'

London Mayor, Boris Johnson then gave a reading from the New Testament, which
said: 'Do not worry about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication
with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.

'And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts
and your minds in Jesus Christ.'

Survivors, relatives of the dead and members of the emergency services were all
invited to the poignant event, in which prayers were led by priests who helped
minister people in the hours and days after the blasts.

The atrocities were the worst attack on British soil with 52 killed and around
700 left with injuries. The anniversary today comes amid a number of warnings
about the enduring and changing threat from terrorism worldwide, and just a
fortnight after the Tunisian beach massacre in which 30 British holidaymakers
were shot dead.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:32 PM GMT

Britain remembers victims of 7/7 bombings: 10 years on, Cameron and Johnson join
relatives at Hyde Park memorial to the 52 people who died in London terror
attacks

BYLINE: LUCY CROSSLEY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3554 words



     ·    Prime Minister and Mayor laid floral wreaths at 8.50am, which was
          timed to coincide with the first of the four suicide blasts in 2005
     ·    52 people died and hundreds were injured in the four explosions on
          London's transport network
     ·    Victims remembered with service at St Paul's Cathedral and a minute's
          silence this morning, while a second service will take place at Hyde
          Park later today
     ·    Poignant anniversary comes amid warnings about threat of terrorism
          worldwide and a fortnight after Tunisia attack


Britain fell silent today as the victims of the July 7 attacks were remembered,
a decade after 52 people were murdered and hundreds more injured in four suicide
bomb explosions on the London transport network.

Families of the victims joined survivors of the horrific attack, members of the
emergency services and politicians at two special services to commemorate the
tenth anniversary of the atrocities in 2005, while a national minute's silence
was observed at 11.30am.

And across London, commuters and grieving families left poignant floral tributes
close to where each of the four bombs exploded, at Aldgate, Edgware Road and
Kings Cross stations, and at Tavistock Square, where the fourth bomb was
detonated on board a bus.

Scroll down for videos

The anniversary comes amid a number of warnings about the enduring and changing
threat from terrorism worldwide, and just a fortnight after the Tunisian beach
massacre in which 30 British holidaymakers were shot dead.

The 2005 attack was the worst terrorist atrocity on British soil, and today the
names of each of the 52 victims were read out at a poignant service at St Paul's
Cathedrals, attended by many relatives of those killed in the blasts, and those
who desperately tried to help them.

After the silence, petals fell from the dome and four candles were lit - one for
each of the four blast sites.

Tube trains and buses stopped as the silence was observed, while tennis was
delayed at Wimbledon.

Giving an address at the service - attended by dignitaries including David
Cameron, Tony Blair and the Duke of York - the Bishop of London Richard Chartres
said: 'Soon after 7/7 the families and friends of the victims compiled a book of
tributes.

'It is a taste of the ocean of pain surrounding the loss of each one of the
victims.The tribute book is also very revealing about the character of the
London which the bombers attacked.

'The majority of the victims were young. They came from all over the UK and all
over the world.'

Survivors, relatives of the dead and members of the emergency services were all
invited to the poignant event, in which prayers were led by priests who helped
minister people in the hours and days after the blasts.

Candles representing the site of each incident were carried by people who helped
deal with the immediate aftermath, including George Psaradakis, who was driving
the number 30 bus when the fourth bomb was detonated on board at Tavistock
Square, and Dr Peter Holden, who provided urgent treatment at the scene.

Dr David Ison, dean of St Paul's Cathedral, began the service by telling the
congregation: 'We come together to share our grief and to comfort one another;
to find strength and to foster resilience; and to affirm that even in our
darkest hour the light of faith and the flame of hope burn strong.'

London Mayor, Boris Johnson then gave a reading from the New Testament, which
said: 'Do not worry about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication
with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.

'And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts
and your minds in Jesus Christ.'

The St Paul's service also heard four reflections of the blast sites.

David Boyce, who was one of the first London Underground staff to realise a bomb
had exploded near Russell Square, described how the area is home to the British
Museum, the University of London, and is also a place where T S Eliot worked.

He said: 'Here, men and women seek understanding and their search for truth
challenges the ignorance which casts so much darkness over our world.'

London Fire Brigade commissioner Ron Dobson described the service as 'wonderful'
and 'a really fitting tribute'.

He said: 'It's entirely appropriate that London takes a moment of reflection to
think about those that were injured and killed on that terrible day, because
London has moved on.

'London is an incredibly vibrant and resilient city. London carries on with its
business as it always should. But it is appropriate to have a moment of
reflection.'

British Transport Police Chief Constable Paul Crowther, who was in charge of
London Underground policing on July 7, said: 'The service was incredibly moving
and an absolutely fitting tribute to the victims of the attack, also the
survivors and the very many people who responded to help those in need.'

He added: 'We should never forget 52 people perished in this terrible attack.'

Earlier, services were held across London at the exact time when the city came
under attack ten years ago.

Mr Cameron and Mr Johnson led the commemorations this morning when they laid
wreaths at the permanent memorial to the victims at Hyde Park at an event timed
to coincide with the first blasts at 8.50am.

Both men stood, silently, as they carefully placed the flowers at the site, Mr
Johnson carrying a yellow and white version, while Mr Cameron's was pink.

Speaking at the memorial this morning, Mr Cameron said: 'Ten years on, this is
one of those days where everyone remembers exactly where they were when they
heard the news.

'It's a day when we recall the incredible resolve and resolution of Londoners
and the United Kingdom, a day when we remember the threat we still face but
above all it's a day when we think of the grace and the dignity of the victims'
families for all they have been through and we honour the memory of those
victims and all those that were lost 10 years ago today.'

In a note attached to his wreath, Mr Cameron wrote: 'To the victims of terrorism
in London ten years ago today. We grieve your loss and will honour your memory
for ever.'

Speaking before the service, Mr Johnson said the four suicide bombers had
'failed in their aim'.

He said the terrorists 'didn't in any way change the fundamentals of London and
what makes this city great', adding: 'Indeed, it's gone from strength to
strength in the 10 years since.

'I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming.'

In a note on his wreath the Mayor of London wrote: 'Ten years may have passed,
but London's memory is undimmed. We honour again today the victims of 7/7. You
will live forever in the hearts of the people of this city.'

Mr Cameron and Mr Johnson were joined by Commons speaker, John Bercow, and
acting Labour leader Harriet Harman, who also placed floral tributes at the
memorial this morning, as well as representatives from the emergency services.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe also laid a wreath
during the short, sombre ceremony in Hyde Park, as did Transport Commissioner
Sir Peter Hendy, Fire Commissioner Ron Dobson, and chief executive of London
Ambulance Dr Fiona Moore.

Survivors and relatives of victims were also attending other services at
stations in the capital this morning, with many commuters bringing flowers to
leave at Edgware Road, Aldgate and King's Cross where ticket halls fell quiet at
8.50am for a minute's silence.

At Edgware Road, wreaths and bouquets were laid in front of a plaque which
commemorates the attack.

The station was calm, as commuters and passers by came to a halt by the ticket
barriers for a moment of reflection.

After, some of those gathered chatted, whilst others observed the vast display
of flowers.

A man stood, with his head in his hands, silently crying, as he remembered the
victims. A woman walked from the crowd wiping away tears, before families of the
victims departed in coaches to attend the memorial at St Paul's Cathedral.

And at Tavistock Square, where the fourth bomb was detonated, bus driver Mr
Psaradakis joined mourners, bringing a bunch flowers to leave at the site,
wiping away a tear as he made the emotional visit, joined by fellow survivors
and those who helped the injured at the scene.

It was at 9.47am that morning that 18-year-old Hasib Hussain, the youngest of
the four bombers, detonated a bomb on the top deck of the number 30 bus, killing
13 people and injuring more than 110. By chance, the explosion occurred just a
stone's throw from the headquarters of the British Medical Association (BMA),
where a conference was being held, and scores of doctors and staff ran to help.

As people paused by the bouquets, off to one side a man sat cross-legged on the
ground, eyes shut tight and hands pressed together as he prayed quietly by a
small bunch of flowers tied to the railings.

Across the road more survivors and family members gathered for a memorial
service. Rabbi Shlomo Levin from South Hampstead synagogue gave a prayer of
remembrance and Dr Paul Holden, who commanded the casualty clearing site at the
scene, lit a candle.

Then, at 9.47am exactly, the crowd fell silent, a minute of quiet contemplation
rooted in memory, regret, anger, sadness and love.

At King's Cross station, London Underground managing director Mike Brown said of
the attacks: 'No one should underestimate the impact of something as horrendous
as this.'

And across London, commuters were being encouraged to leave trains during their
trips to work a stop early, and walking the rest of the way - taking pictures of
their journeys and posting them on social media, using the hashtag
#walktogether.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: 'Today is an important moment for us
all to remember the appalling attacks on London ten years ago. It is a day for
us to remember those who lost their lives, those who were injured in the
bombings and those who felt scared in the city they live in.

'But it is also a time to recognise the strength, solidarity and resilience of
London and the people who live here - including those working for the emergency
services who were at the scene. On the day of the attacks, we saw acts of
immense bravery, with people risking their own lives to save others. And as
commuters made their way home without public transport, they shared food, water
and helped each other along the way.

'And today Londoners will once again show their solidarity and remember those
who died in these attacks as they #WalkTogether to work. We face new and
changing threats, but London will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder against
terrorists who seek to divide us with extremism and violence.'

The silence was also observed across the capital's public transport network.

Announcements were halted and bus drivers asked to bring vehicles to a stop if
they can do so safely.

Tube services ran as normal but passengers were asked to observe the silence and
announcements will be halted for the duration, Transport for London said.

King's Cross underground station, usually a bustling commuter-filled hub, came
to a standstill as the public fell silent at 11.30am, next to a memorial plaque
honouring the 26 people killed in the blast between the station and Russell
Square.

Among the floral tributes were photographs of victims James Adams, 30, from
Peterborough, and Philip Beer, 22, a hairdresser from Borehamwood.

Andrew McConnell, who laid a large bouquet of flowers on behalf of WAGN (West
Anglia Great Northern) railway workers, recalls people who 'were just in deep
shock' as they came out of the underground following the blasts.

Mr McConnell, who was working as a station manager with WAGN that day, said:
'They were lost, in deep shock and the mobile phones were not working. We just
tried to reassure them that we wanted to help. It is a day that I and colleagues
who worked at the station will never ever forget.

'We pause today to remember the people who this has all impacted. It is
important.'

London Underground managing director Mike Brown said: 'It was horrendous. In the
days and weeks afterwards when I talked to my staff, people who had been
involved, people who had carried victims out of the wreckage of the trains.

'I talked to people who had victims die in their arms. These are young station
staff.'

He said the emotional impact for bereaved relatives, families, friends, the
seriously injured and staff should not be underestimated. Everyone who has have
been affected by the blasts has had to 'live through this, day and night, since
that day - and probably will for the rest of their lives,' he said.

'Nobody should underestimate the impact of something that is as horrendous as
this.'

A whistle marked the beginning of the minute's silence in Hyde Park, where at
least 20 people stood beside the memorial - many bowing their heads, while more
members of the public stood further back behind barriers.

A group of about 25 American students, who are in London studying national
security as part of their political science course at Indiana University, were
among the members of the public who visited the Hyde Park memorial today.

Zach Post said it is 'devastating' to think of what happened this day ten years
ago, and described it as 'unfathomable'.

Sebastian Cacho said he found seeing the memorial and wreaths to be 'emotional
for sure', while Jack Buskirk said he was 'glad' to see London honouring the
tenth anniversary.

Jake Carroll said: 'It's nice to see everyone supporting it.'

And at Wimbledon, play was delayed so that players, fans and officials could
observe the tenth anniversary commemoration at 11.30am.

Spectators on Murray Mound bowed their heads, with even those waiting in the
queue to get into the grounds taking part.

Schoolboy James Lloyd, 13, from Stafford, was at SW19 with his aunt Susan
Leicester, 56, to watch the action on Centre Court.

He said: 'It was poignant, showing respect to those that died and were injured.

'To think that people have died - you think how lucky you are to be alive now.

'I also thought of the stupid people who decided to do that, it's just wrong and
shouldn't happen.'

Lesley Saunders, 72, from Guernsey, was on Murray Mound for the commemoration.

She said: 'It was amazing, everybody observed it except for the cameras
clicking.

'It brought back visions of that day, I was thinking of the poor people who were
left behind.

'I think it's very important that we should remember it because it affected to
many people, emotionally as well as through injury and death.'

A second service, to be attended by the Duke of Cambridge, will take place at
Hyde Park later, featuring music, a series of readings and the laying of
flowers.

Jacqui Putnam, who survived the Edgware Road explosion, said: 'It doesn't seem
like ten years ago. There is only one group of people who I want to be with and
that is my survivor family.'

Ms Putnam, from Cambridgeshire, said her overriding feeling will be sadness as
she remembers the 52 people who were killed.

'I think of them as my silent friends,' she said. 'Those 52 people are with me
every day because I could so easily have been with them. The fact that I'm not
is random luck.'

July 7 2005 had dawned with London still elated from learning the previous day
that it had won the 2012 Olympics, but within hours, the country was consumed by
horror and grief.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning, taking a train
to King's Cross in London, where they hugged and separated to carry out their
deadly missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Aldgate, Khan set
his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between King's Cross
and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device on a number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at 9.47am.

Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line, six in
the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle line, seven in the bombing at Aldgate
on the Circle line, and 13 in the bombing on the bus at Tavistock Square.

A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen killing innocent Brazilian
Jean Charles de Menezes.

'Our priority today is to allow the families and friends of the 52 innocent
victims of 7/7 to pay tribute to the memory of their loved ones,' he said. 'And
for the survivors and the many hundreds of members of our emergency services who
were affected by these atrocities to know that they have the support of every
Londoner.

'THEY DON'T REPRESENT OUR CITY': ATTACKS REMEMBERED IN LEEDS

The Lord Mayor of Leeds has led the silent tribute in the city where three of
four London bombers lived and made their deadly devices, saying: 'They did not
represent this city ten years ago and they do not represent it now.'

Judith Chapman was joined by a range of civic leaders for an official ceremony
to mark the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 attacks.

Ms Chapman told the gathering in the city centre: 'We stand in solidarity with
the city of London in commemorating these tragic events.

'Three of the perpetrators came from Leeds yet they knew nothing of the values
of this city or of tolerance, respect and democracy.'

The Lord Mayor said: 'We know we stand side-by-side with the people of Leeds in
opposition to terrorism and we stand side-by-side in having tolerance and
respect for each other.'

'On the tenth anniversary of the attacks we honour the victims, we remember the
sufferings of their families and we pay tribute to the actions of our emergency
services on that appalling day.'

Mr Cameron said the events in Tunisia showed the danger remains ten years on
from 7/7, but vowed the nation would not be cowed by violent extremists.

'Today the country comes together to remember the victims of one of the
deadliest terrorist atrocities on mainland Britain,' he said.

'Ten years on from the 7/7 London attacks, the threat from terrorism continues
to be as real as it is deadly - the murder of 30 innocent Britons whilst
holidaying in Tunisia is a brutal reminder of that fact. But we will never be
cowed by terrorism.

'We will keep on doing all that we can to keep the British public safe,
protecting vulnerable young minds from others' extremist beliefs and promoting
the shared values of tolerance, love and respect that make Britain so great.'

The anniversary falls at a time of heightened alert after the rise of Isis, and
Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the country's most
senior counter-terrorism officer, said security services are tackling a 'very
different' threat ten years on from 7/7.

He called on communities to 'step forward' in the fight against radicalisation,
saying their help is more crucial than ever to security services' efforts to
prevent fresh attacks.

Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, said the 'continuing fact' that some British
citizens are prepared to target their own country presents a 'serious societal
and security challenge'.

He described the 'disgusting' murders ten years ago as an 'enduring reminder' of
what his organisation 'is striving every day to prevent'.

Tony Blair, who was prime minister at the time of the attacks, said his first
response was to try to 'bring people together' and deal with the 'huge trauma'
suffered by the capital.

Mr Blair denied that the terrorist attacks could be portrayed as a response to
his foreign policy, telling LBC: 'This is a global problem... and the only way
of dealing with it ultimately is for people to come together whatever their
faith background and say we are united against this terrorism, and to say we are
not going to allow anyone to excuse themselves by saying the slaughter of
totally innocent people is somehow a response to any decision by any
government.'

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said it is a 'day to
remember and reflect'.

He added: 'We will never, ever be complacent. Whilst I hope that we will never
need to deliver such a response again, if we do we will be ready.

'My thoughts today are with those taken from us, those who were affected, remain
affected and with my own men and women who, day-in day-out are here for London.'



                     #walktogether: Thousands of defiant London commuters get
off the Tube early and walk their final stop in memory of the 52 people who died
in 7/7 terror attacks 10 years ago today

It is ten years to the day that the country suffered one of its most abhorrent
attacks on freedom.

And as Britain remembers the events of 7/7/2005, thousands have put on a defiant
display in the face of the ever-encroaching threat of terror.

In memory of those killed in the bombings a decade ago, commuters across London
and the rest of the UK today stepped off the train, Tube and bus one stop early
to walk the remainder of their journey.

Uniting in their tributes to the dead, they shared photographs of the poignant
gesture on Twitter accompanied with the words #walktogether.

Some held signs bearing the phrase while others photographed their feet and held
hands, posting their photographs on social media.

Below is a collection of some of the thousands of tributes paid today to the
victims of the attacks by their fellow Londoners and countrymen.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:32 PM GMT

#walktogether: Thousands of defiant London commuters get off the Tube early and
walk their final stop in memory of the 52 people who died in 7/7 terror attacks
10 years ago today

BYLINE: JENNIFER SMITH FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 816 words



     ·    Commuters shared their poignant tributes to the victims of the 7/7
          bombings online as they walked to work today
     ·    Scores held up signs with the words #walktogether while others held
          hands and posted photographs of their feet
     ·    David Cameron and Boris Johnson were joined by politicians at a Hyde
          Park Memorial wreath-laying ceremony
     ·    It is ten years to the day that 52 people were killed and 700 injured
          in a series of blasts detonated across London


It is ten years to the day that the country suffered one of its most abhorrent
attacks on freedom.

And as Britain remembers the events of 7/7/2005, thousands have put on a defiant
display in the face of the ever-encroaching threat of terror.

In memory of those killed in the bombings a decade ago, commuters across London
and the rest of the UK today stepped off the train, Tube and bus one stop early
to walk the remainder of their journey.

Uniting in their tributes to the dead, they shared photographs of the poignant
gesture on Twitter accompanied with the words #walktogether.

Some held signs bearing the phrase while others photographed their feet and held
hands, posting their photographs on social media.

It came as David Cameron, Boris Johnson and other leading parliamentary figures
laid wreaths at a memorial in Hyde Park in memory of the 52 people who were
killed in the attacks.

Families of those who died when suicide bombers detonated a series of blasts
across London were also at Kings Cross to meet commuters today.

Below is a collection of some of the thousands of tributes paid today to the
victims of the attacks by their fellow Londoners and countrymen.

Scroll down for video

BRITAIN REMEMBERS THE VICTIMS OF THE 7/7 BOMBINGS ON TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF LONDON
TERROR ATTACKS

Britain fell silent today as the victims of the July 7 attacks were remembered,
a decade after 52 people were murdered and hundreds more injured in four suicide
bomb explosions on the London transport network.

Families of the victims joined survivors of the horrific attack, members of the
emergency services and politicians at two special services to commemorate the
tenth anniversary of the atrocities in 2005, while a national minute's silence
was observed at 11.30am.

And across London, commuters and grieving families left poignant floral tributes
close to where each of the four bombs exploded, at Aldgate, Edgware Road and
Kings Cross stations, and at Tavistock Square, where the fourth bomb was
detonated on board a bus.

The anniversary comes amid a number of warnings about the enduring and changing
threat from terrorism worldwide, and just a fortnight after the Tunisian beach
massacre in which 30 British holidaymakers were shot dead.

The 2005 attack was the worst terrorist atrocity on British soil, and today the
names of each of the 52 victims were read out at a poignant service at St Paul's
Cathedrals, attended by many relatives of those killed in the blasts, and those
who desperately tried to help them.

After the silence, petals fell from the dome and four candles were lit - one for
each of the four blast sites.

Tube trains and buses stopped as the silence was observed, while tennis was
delayed at Wimbledon.

Giving an address at the service - attended by dignitaries including David
Cameron, Tony Blair and the Duke of York - the Bishop of London Richard Chartres
said: 'Soon after 7/7 the families and friends of the victims compiled a book of
tributes.

'It is a taste of the ocean of pain surrounding the loss of each one of the
victims.The tribute book is also very revealing about the character of the
London which the bombers attacked.

'The majority of the victims were young. They came from all over the UK and all
over the world.'

Survivors, relatives of the dead and members of the emergency services were all
invited to the poignant event, in which prayers were led by priests who helped
minister people in the hours and days after the blasts.

Candles representing the site of each incident were carried by people who helped
deal with the immediate aftermath, including George Psaradakis, who was driving
the number 30 bus when the fourth bomb was detonated on board at Tavistock
Square, and Dr Peter Holden, who provided urgent treatment at the scene.

Dr David Ison, dean of St Paul's Cathedral, began the service by telling the
congregation: 'We come together to share our grief and to comfort one another;
to find strength and to foster resilience; and to affirm that even in our
darkest hour the light of faith and the flame of hope burn strong.'

London Mayor, Boris Johnson then gave a reading from the New Testament, which
said: 'Do not worry about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication
with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.

'And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts
and your minds in Jesus Christ.'

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:53 AM GMT

Britain remembers victims of 7/7 bombings: 10 years on, Cameron and Johnson join
relatives at Hyde Park memorial to the 52 people who died in London terror
attacks

BYLINE: LUCY CROSSLEY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2092 words



     ·    Prime minister and Mayor laid floral wreaths at 8.50am, which was
          timed to coincide with the first of the four suicide blasts in 2005
     ·    52 people died and hundreds were injured in the four explosions on
          London's transport network
     ·    There will be services at St Paul's Cathedral and Hyde Park later
          today, as well as a minute's silence
     ·    Poignant anniversary comes amid warnings about threat of terrorism
          worldwide and a fortnight after Tunisia attack


Britain will fall silent this morning to remember the victims of the July 7
attacks, a decade after 52 people were murdered and hundreds more injured in
four suicide bomb explosions on the London transport network.

Families of the victims will join survivors of the horrific attack, members of
the emergency services and politicians at two special services to commemorate
the tenth anniversary of the atrocities in 2005, while a national minute's
silence will be held at 11.30am.

The anniversary comes amid a number of warnings about the enduring and changing
threat from terrorism worldwide, and just a fortnight after the Tunisian beach
massacre in which 30 British holidaymakers were shot dead.

Scroll down for video

Prime minister David Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson led the
commemorations this morning when they laid wreaths at the permanent memorial to
the victims at Hyde Park at an event timed to coincide with the first blasts at
8.50am.

Both men stood, silently, as they carefully placed the flowers at the site, Mr
Johnson carrying a yellow and white version, while Mr Cameron's was pink.

Speaking at the memorial this morning, Mr Cameron said: 'Ten years on, this is
one of those days where everyone remembers exactly where they were when they
heard the news.

'It's a day when we recall the incredible resolve and resolution of Londoners
and the United Kingdom, a day when we remember the threat we still face but
above all it's a day when we think of the grace and the dignity of the victims'
families for all they have been through and we honour the memory of those
victims and all those that were lost 10 years ago today.'

In a note attached to his wreath, Mr Cameron wrote: 'To the victims of terrorism
in London ten years ago today. We grieve your loss and will honour your memory
for ever.'

The wording on the wreath laid by the London Mayor in Hyde Park read: 'Ten years
may have passed, but London's memory is undimmed. We honour again today the
victims of 7/7. You will live forever in the hearts of the people of this city.
Boris Johnson.'

Mr Cameron and Mr Johnson were joined by Commons speaker, John Bercow, and
acting Labour leader Harriet Harman, who also placed floral tributes at the
memorial this morning, as well as representatives from the emergency services.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe also laid a wreath
during the short, sombre ceremony in Hyde Park, as did Transport Commissioner
Sir Peter Hendy, Fire Commissioner Ron Dobson, and chief executive of London
Ambulance Dr Fiona Moore.

Survivors and relatives of victims were also attending other services at
stations in the capital this morning, with many commuters bringing flowers to
leave at Edgware Road, Aldgate and King's Cross where ticket halls fell quiet at
8.50am for a minute's silence.

At Edgware Road, wreaths and bouquets were laid in front of a plaque which
commemorates the attack.

The station was calm, as commuters and passers by came to a halt by the ticket
barriers for a moment of reflection.

After, some of those gathered chatted, whilst others observed the vast display
of flowers.

A man stood, with his head in his hands, silently crying, as he remembered the
victims. A woman walked from the crowd wiping away tears, before families of the
victims departed in coaches to attend the memorial at St Paul's Cathedral.

And at Tavistock Square, where the fourth bomb was detonated on board the number
bus, driver George Psaradakis, 59, joined mourners, bringing a bunch flowers to
leave at the site, wiping away a tear as he made the emotional visit.

At King's Cross station, London Underground managing director Mike Brown said of
the attacks: 'No one should underestimate the impact of something as horrendous
as this.'

And across London, commuters were being encouraged to leave trains during their
trips to work a stop early, and walking the rest of the way - taking pictures of
their journeys and posting them on social media, using the hashtag
#walktogether.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: 'Today is an important moment for us
all to remember the appalling attacks on London ten years ago. It is a day for
us to remember those who lost their lives, those who were injured in the
bombings and those who felt scared in the city they live in.

'But it is also a time to recognise the strength, solidarity and resilience of
London and the people who live here - including those working for the emergency
services who were at the scene. On the day of the attacks, we saw acts of
immense bravery, with people risking their own lives to save others. And as
commuters made their way home without public transport, they shared food, water
and helped each other along the way.

'And today Londoners will once again show their solidarity and remember those
who died in these attacks as they #WalkTogether to work. We face new and
changing threats, but London will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder against
terrorists who seek to divide us with extremism and violence.'

Later today, Mr Cameron and Mr Johnson will also attend a service at St Paul's
Cathedral, as will the Duke of York,Tony Blair, who was Prime Minister at the
time of the attacks, and Ken Livingstone who was Mayor of London.

Survivors, relatives of the dead and members of the emergency services have been
invited to the poignant event.

The service coincides with the moment of silence, which will be observed across
the capital's public transport network.

COMMUTERS REMEMBER THE DEAD WITH POIGNANT #WALKTOGETHER HASHTAG

Many of London's commuters took time on their journeys into work this morning to
remember the 52 victims of the July 7 bombings by taking part in the
#WalkTogether campaign.

People were encouraged to leave their trains or buses a station early, and walk
the rest of the way to work, taking photographs on their route and posting them
on social media with the hashtag #WalkTogether.

The campaign was intended to remember those who died, but was also a show of
unity in the face of the threat from further terror attacks.

The hashtag was trending on Twitter this morning as thousands of users shared
pictures of their walks and messages honouring the victims.

Announcements will be halted and bus drivers asked to bring vehicles to a stop
if they can do so safely.

Tube services will run as normal but passengers will be asked to observe the
silence and announcements will be halted for the duration, Transport for London
said.

A second service, to be attended by the Duke of Cambridge, will take place at
Hyde Park later, featuring music, a series of readings and the laying of
flowers.

Jacqui Putnam, who survived the Edgware Road explosion, said: 'It doesn't seem
like ten years ago. There is only one group of people who I want to be with and
that is my survivor family.'

Ms Putnam, from Cambridgeshire, said her overriding feeling will be sadness as
she remembers the 52 people who were killed.

'I think of them as my silent friends,' she said. 'Those 52 people are with me
every day because I could so easily have been with them. The fact that I'm not
is random luck.'

July 7 2005 had dawned with London still elated from learning the previous day
that it had won the 2012 Olympics, but within hours, the country was consumed by
horror and grief.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning, taking a train
to King's Cross in London, where they hugged and separated to carry out their
deadly missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Aldgate, Khan set
his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between King's Cross
and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device on a number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at 9.47am.

Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line, six in
the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle line, seven in the bombing at Aldgate
on the Circle line, and 13 in the bombing on the bus at Tavistock Square.

A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen killing innocent Brazilian
Jean Charles de Menezes.

Mr Johnson says the 7/7 killers 'failed in their aim'.

Speaking in Hyde Park, he said the terrorists 'didn't in any way change the
fundamentals of London and what makes this city great', adding: 'Indeed, it's
gone from strength to strength in the ten years since.

'I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming.'

But Mr Johnson said today people have to remember that 'the problem has not gone
away', adding: 'We're as ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine
there are preparations going on all the time in the event of all kinds of
attacks.'

Mr Johnson said today's remembrance is intended to show the bereaved, survivors
and the emergency services that they have the support of all those across the
city.

'Our priority today is to allow the families and friends of the 52 innocent
victims of 7/7 to pay tribute to the memory of their loved ones,' he said. 'And
for the survivors and the many hundreds of members of our emergency services who
were affected by these atrocities to know that they have the support of every
Londoner.

'On the tenth anniversary of the attacks we honour the victims, we remember the
sufferings of their families and we pay tribute to the actions of our emergency
services on that appalling day.'

Mr Cameron said the events in Tunisia showed the danger remains ten years on
from 7/7, but vowed the nation would not be cowed by violent extremists.

'Today the country comes together to remember the victims of one of the
deadliest terrorist atrocities on mainland Britain,' he said.

'Ten years on from the 7/7 London attacks, the threat from terrorism continues
to be as real as it is deadly - the murder of 30 innocent Britons whilst
holidaying in Tunisia is a brutal reminder of that fact. But we will never be
cowed by terrorism.

'We will keep on doing all that we can to keep the British public safe,
protecting vulnerable young minds from others' extremist beliefs and promoting
the shared values of tolerance, love and respect that make Britain so great.'

The anniversary falls at a time of heightened alert after the rise of Isis, and
Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the country's most
senior counter-terrorism officer, said security services are tackling a 'very
different' threat ten years on from 7/7.

He called on communities to 'step forward' in the fight against radicalisation,
saying their help is more crucial than ever to security services' efforts to
prevent fresh attacks.

Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, said the 'continuing fact' that some British
citizens are prepared to target their own country presents a 'serious societal
and security challenge'.

He described the 'disgusting' murders ten years ago as an 'enduring reminder' of
what his organisation 'is striving every day to prevent'.

Tony Blair, who was prime minister at the time of the attacks, said his first
response was to try to 'bring people together' and deal with the 'huge trauma'
suffered by the capital.

Mr Blair denied that the terrorist attacks could be portrayed as a response to
his foreign policy, telling LBC: 'This is a global problem... and the only way
of dealing with it ultimately is for people to come together whatever their
faith background and say we are united against this terrorism, and to say we are
not going to allow anyone to excuse themselves by saying the slaughter of
totally innocent people is somehow a response to any decision by any
government.'

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said it is a 'day to
remember and reflect'.

He added: 'We will never, ever be complacent. Whilst I hope that we will never
need to deliver such a response again, if we do we will be ready.

'My thoughts today are with those taken from us, those who were affected, remain
affected and with my own men and women who, day-in day-out are here for London.'



LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 4:47 PM GMT

7/7 bombings: Watch heartbreaking speech by youngest terror attack survivor Emma
Craig;
Emma Craig told the memorial service: "All of us lost our innocence on that day"

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


A survivor of the 7/7 bombings who was just 14 when the tragedy unfolded has
given an emotional speech about the moment the blasts took place.

Emma Craig was on her way to work experience when one of the suicide bombers
detonated a bomb on the train she was travelling on.

Miss Craig, now 24, told those at the remembrance service how she was travelling
on the train when it exploded at Aldgate.

Fighting back tears, she said: "All of us lost our innocence on that day, our
naivety, the thought that something like that could never happen to me or even
to London."

She revealed she was just ten days away from her 15th birthday when she was
caught up in the attacks and that she did not fully understand what was
happening.

Ms Craig, who was on her way to work experience at a legal firm in Tower Hill,
said she "struggled a lot afterwards" because she was scared of being weak.

She recalled her mother ringing her to check she was okay as she had heard about
a bomb going off, and she remembered saying to her mother: "Mum I was there. I
was on the Tube."

She said her mother does not swear and recalled her saying: "Sugar. I'm on my
way."

Ms Craig said that while quite often people will say "terrorism won't break us",
she added: "The fact is it may not have broken London but it did break some of
us."

She said: "Sometimes I feel people are so hell-bent on making a point about
terrorism not breaking us, that they forget about the people caught up in it."

The emotional speech was made at the memorial service at Hyde Park where other
survivors, politicians and royals have been paying their respects.

The service came as thousands of commuters today showed solidarity with victims
of the 7/7 bombings by walking to work.

The 'walk together' event saw people get off the London Underground one stop
earlier than usual to walk the rest of the way to work.

Many people tweeted images of their walk along with messages of support.

walk together

walk together

together

7/7

If you would like to leave a tribute or share your memories of the day, you can
do so using the form below

Today marks the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings, the worst ever terrorist
attack on British soil.

On July 7, 2005, 56 people were killed by the co-ordinated assault on London,
the first ever suicide attack in the UK.

Among the casualties were the four bombers, while more than 700 were injured.

walk together

First in a series of attacks were three bombs which hit the London underground
just after 8.50am at Liverpool Street, Edgware Road and between Russell Square
and King's Cross.

Around an hour later, another bomb went off on a bus, number 30, at Tavistock
Square.

London 7/7 bombings your memories/tributes (JotForm)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 4:03 PM GMT

Ken Livingstone reduced to tears listening to his incredibly moving 7/7 bombings
speech 10 years on;
The former London Mayor made a stirring speech after the terror attacks, and
hearing it again was an emotional moment

BYLINE: By Mikey Smith

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 803 words


Ken Livingstone was reduced to tears today listening back to the inspiring
speech he gave following the 7/7 bombings.

During an appearance on LBC Radio, the former London Mayor struggled to maintain
his composure as he heard a playback of the speech many consider to be the
finest of his career.

He wasn't in London on the day of the attack - he was in Singapore, celebrating
the capital winning their bid to host the 2012 Olympics.

Ten years to the day after the attacks claimed the lives of 52 people travelling
on Tube trains and buses, LBC host James O'Brien played a portion of the speech
to introduce a commemorative programme.

Mr Livingstone delivered the speech over video link in the hours following the
attack, praising Londoners for their bravery, calmness and courage.

In the powerful section played on the radio programme today, he spoke directly
to the bombers and those that directed them - declaring them doomed to fail.

Mr Livingstone, 70, sat in silence as he listened to the speech, but earlier
tweeted his tribute to the victims of 7/7.

Ken Livingstone

Ken Livingstone 7/7 speech

Here's the text of the speech in full.

"This was a cowardly attack, which has resulted in injury and loss of life. Our
thoughts are with everyone who has been injured, or lost loved ones. I want to
thank the emergency services for the way they have responded.

"Following the al-Qaeda attacks on September 11th in America we conducted a
series of exercises in London in order to be prepared for just such an attack.

"One of the exercises undertaken by the government, my office and the emergency
and security services was based on the possibility of multiple explosions on the
transport system during the Friday rush hour.

"The plan that came out of that exercise is being executed today, with
remarkable efficiency and courage, and I praise those staff who are involved.

"I'd like to thank Londoners for the calm way in which they have responded to
this cowardly attack and echo the advice of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Sir Ian Blair - do everything possible to assist the police and take the advice
of the police about getting home today.

"I have no doubt whatsoever that this is a terrorist attack. We did hope in the
first few minutes after hearing about the events on the Underground that it
might simply be a maintenance tragedy.

"That was not the case. I have been able to stay in touch through the very
excellent communications that were established for the eventuality that I might
be out of the city at the time of a terrorist attack and they have worked with
remarkable effectiveness. I will be in continual contact until I am back in
London.

"I want to say one thing specifically to the world today. This was not a
terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful. It was not aimed at
Presidents or Prime Ministers.

"It was aimed at ordinary, working-class Londoners, black and white, Muslim and
Christian, Hindu and Jew, young and old. It was an indiscriminate attempt to
slaughter, irrespective of any considerations for age, for class, for religion,
or whatever.

"That isn't an ideology, it isn't even a perverted faith - it is just an
indiscriminate attempt at mass murder and we know what the objective is. They
seek to divide Londoners.

"They seek to turn Londoners against each other. I said yesterday to the
International Olympic Committee, that the city of London is the greatest in the
world, because everybody lives side by side in harmony.

"Londoners will not be divided by this cowardly attack. They will stand together
in solidarity alongside those who have been injured and those who have been
bereaved and that is why I'm proud to be the mayor of that city.

"Finally, I wish to speak directly to those who came to London today to take
life.

"I know that you personally do not fear giving up your own life in order to take
others - that is why you are so dangerous. But I know you fear that you may fail
in your long-term objective to destroy our free society and I can show you why
you will fail.

"In the days that follow look at our airports, look at our sea ports and look at
our railway stations and, even after your cowardly attack, you will see that
people from the rest of Britain, people from around the world will arrive in
London to become Londoners and to fulfil their dreams and achieve their
potential.

"They choose to come to London, as so many have come before because they come to
be free, they come to live the life they choose, they come to be able to be
themselves.

"They flee you because you tell them how they should live. They don't want that
and nothing you do, however many of us you kill, will stop that flight to our
city where freedom is strong and where people can live in harmony with one
another.

"Whatever you do, however many you kill, you will fail."

Whatsapp Mirror Politics

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 12:24 PM GMT

7/7 anniversary: Social media flooded with tributes 10 years on from London
bombings;
On the anniversary of the terror attacks the UK remembers the shockwaves sent
through the nation a decade ago

BYLINE: By Nicola Oakley

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


Hyde Park memorial 7/7 tweet

Brits have been taking to social media this morning to share their thoughts,
tributes and memories ten years on from the terror attacks that rocked London.

WalkTogether tweet Mohammed Hussain London 7/7

A total of 52 people were killed and more than 770 injured on Thursday, July 7
2005 following co-ordinated attacks on the capital's underground Tube network
and on a double-decker bus during rush hour.

walktogether tweet 3 london bombings 7/7

Instagram and Twitter users are today posting images of the capital's
Underground logo transformed into a heart, in a moving display of solidarity.

Instagram London heart tube

Others have mocked up images of the logo with the motto 'We are not afraid'.

Instagram London we are not afraid

If you would like to share your own tribute or memory, you can do so via the
form below

london bombings 7/7 anniversary

This morning, commuters got off their public transport one stop early, or walked
to work, to remember the victims of the attack in an initiative named Walk
Together.

#sevenseven tweet 1

Social media users have been posting images of their feet - or of the other
commuters on the walks - along with the hashtag #walktogether, which has been
the number two trend in the UK on Twitter all morning.

walk together tweet london 7/7 bombings

Others are sharing their tributes and memories in the lead up to the one-minute
silence which will be observed across the country at 11.30am.

London #sevenseven tweet 2

London bus drivers will pull over for the silence if possible and although Tube
services will still be running, passengers will be informed of the silence via a
tannoy.

london #sevenseven tweet 3

A special commemoration service is currently underway in St Paul's Cathedral,
broadcast on national television, and is being attended by families of those
affected by the atrocities.

london #sevenseven tweet 4

Emergency staff Metropolitan Police, London Fire Brigade and London Ambulance
Service are also there alongside the Mayor of London and Prince Andrew.

Later today there will also be a service in Hyde Park at the 7/7 memorial, where
52 pillars represent the victims of the attacks.

Follow our live updates on the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings.

London 7/7 bombings your memories/tributes (JotForm)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:50 AM GMT

Steve Brookstein DISGUSTS fans after linking devastating 7/7 London terror
attack to his number one album;
The former X Factor winner has caused outrage on Twitter after telling fans this
time in 2005 he was celebrating success

BYLINE: By Katy Forrester

SECTION: 3AM,CELEBRITY NEWS

LENGTH: 231 words


Steve Brookstein has DISGUSTED fans after linking the 7/7 London terror attack
to his number on album.

The former X Factor winner, who shot to fame after appearing on the ITV talent
show in 2004, tweeted an insensitive post this morning on the anniversary of the
tragedy.

He wrote on the social media site: "10 years ago I was heading home from New
York and Barcelona after celebrating a No1 album. Totally oblivious to 7/7
attacks."

Steve Brookstein

The 46-year-old singer enjoyed fleeting success in 2005 with his record Heart
and Soul, released through Sony BMG, before being dropped by his record label
just eight months after winning the show.

He later slammed judge and TV mogul Simon Cowell in his autobiography, Getting
over the X, about his struggle to stay in the spotlight.

Followers branded him selfish today after he posted the tweet, with one writing:
"F*** me...and you wondered why you struggled to capture the nation's hearts?!"

Another outraged user told him: "a horrific tragedy that shocked the world and
ruined so many lives. All on the same day as the terror attacks. Shame on you."

A third delivered the ultimate burn, telling him: "@stevebrookstein. Ironic.
Because as all those folk were being blown apart they were totally oblivious to
your phenomenal success."

From Steve Brookstein to Screwbo, see all the past X Factor winners

All the X Factor winners EVER

Steve Brookstein

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:47 AM GMT

UK terror attacks are inevitable and there's nothing we can do to stop them,
warn spy chiefs;
The dire warning comes as a Mirror survey reveals up to 1.5 million Britons
could be supporters of Islamic State

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 864 words


Spy chiefs are warning that new and terrible atrocities are inevitable in the UK
- and security services may not be able to stop them.

The dire warning comes as a Mirror survey reveals up to 1.5 million Britons
could be supporters of Islamic State.

On the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings highlights hardcore support for the
terror network, with one in 11 Brits holding a "positive" view of the group.

But the disturbing poll of 2,016 British adults taken over the weekend also
found support for the group was up 2% to 9%.

It found 3% have a "very favourable view", up 1% from a year ago - suggesting
around half of Britain's three million Muslims could be IS sympathisers.

UK ISIS supporters

And MI5 spy boss Andrew Parker said terrorists will strike again - but his
officers may not be able to stop them.

The London bombings were the worst ever attack on British soil, killing 52.

One of the most enduring images was of facial burns victim Davinia Douglass, 29,
who wore a protective mask as she was helped by IT worker Paul Dadge.

Another survivor of the 2005 attacks, Gill Hicks, was reunited with her rescuer,
PC Andrew Maxwell, as she took part in a commemorative walk ahead of the 10-year
anniversary.

Gill, 46, lost both legs when Germaine Lindsay blew himself up on a Piccadilly
Line train.

He brought terror to the city with Mohammed Sidique Khan, Shezhad Tanweer and
Hasib Hussain.

If you would like to leave a tribute or share your memories of the day, you can
do so using the form below

A service will include a national minute of silence at 11.30am.

Bus and Tube workers across the capital are expected to pause, where safe to do
so.

Earlier in the day, London Mayor Boris Johnson and other senior political,
transport and emergency services representatives will lay wreaths at the 7/7
memorial in Hyde Park.

A service for survivors and relatives of victims will be held there later on.

A year after the declaration of the IS caliphate in Syria and Iraq, pollsters
ICM found opposition to the new threat of IS has hardened, with 80% of Britons
having a "very unfavourable" view of the extremists compared to 45% last July.

But the poll also found 3% have a "very favourable view" of ISIS, up 1% from a
year ago - suggesting around half of Britain's three million Muslims could be IS
sympathisers.

And 6% admitted having a "somewhat favourable" view, up from 5% last year.

Haras Rafiq, of counter-extremism thinktank the Quilliam Foundation, said: "It
is deeply worrying that after a year of carnage and cruelty, there is still this
support for Islamic State.

"But I'm not surprised. For decades now, Islamists have been indoctrinating
young Muslims with extremist ideas without being challenged.

"The Islamists say that the only way you can be a true Muslim is to believe in
the Islamic Caliphate.

"There are undoubtedly a significant number of people in the UK who believe in
the concept of the Islamic State.

"The sheer numbers of people going out there to Syria and Iraq indicate that
this support is there."

Pictures from the July 7th Bombings

Mr Rafiq called on the Muslim communities to help "make Islamism as
unfashionable among our young people as fascism and communism".

Peter Clarke, former Scotland Yard terror chief said he was "absolutely certain"
the "vast majority" of Muslims want nothing to do with Islamic State's
ideologies.

But he called for changes to the justice system to allow reformed jihadis to
publicly denounce the terror state.

Mr Clarke told the Mirror: "They don't currently. They may feel disloyal. They
may fear being prosecuted. They have got to be subject to the law, but this
could be part of the sentencing package."

Meanwhile Mr Parker warned against complacency towards MI5's continued "severe"
terror threat warning, which means an attack here is "highly likely."

In a statement he will say: "The shocking and brutal murder of so many innocent
holidaymakers in Sousse has yet again brought the reality of terrorism to the
fore."

He will add: "We simply can't find and stop every terrorist plot. We could not
have prevented 7/7."

Survivor Gill had to give up on the commemorative walk because of the pain she
still suffers.

But she said through a spokesman: "My life was saved by strangers, people who
never gave up, people who risked their own lives to save mine.

"Walking together allows us the time and space to talk, to share and to know the
'other'."

Barrister Davinia, a victim of Khan at Edgware Road, told how IT worker Mr
Dadge, then 28, insisted she take off her shoes as he led her to safety.

She said: "In the end, I took them off and, as he bent down to pick them up, I
said 'give me back my shoes'. It's amazing the sort of things you think about."

Transport commissioner Sir Peter Hendy said: "Our thoughts are with the victims,
those injured and their families and loved ones at this poignant time."

Mike Brown, managing director of London Underground and Rail, added: "What
happened 10 years ago will never be forgotten, and neither will the valiant
actions of our staff, the emergency services and members of the public."

Emotional moment 7/7 survivor Gill Hicks meets the policeman who saved her life

London 7/7 bombings your memories/tributes (JotForm)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:47 AM GMT

MI5 chief warns 7/7 attacks are reminder of dangers posed by terrorists prepared
to target their own country;
Andrew Parker, Director-General of the British Security Service, said that even
10 years after the devastating July 7 attacks, there was a "serious societal and
security challenge" in tackling British fanatics

BYLINE: By Hayden Smith

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


The head of MI5 has warned of the challenge Britain faces against some citizens
becoming prepared to target their own country.

Andrew Parker, Director-General of the British Security Service, said that even
10 years after the devastating July 7 attacks, there was a "serious societal and
security challenge" in tackling British fanatics.

Speaking on the 10th anniversary of the London attacks, Mr Parker said the
"disgusting" murders were an "enduring reminder" of what his organisation "is
striving every day to prevent".

Mr Parker described how the atrocity ended any doubt about the danger facing the
UK and led to a "step-change" in the nation's counter-terrorism defences which
was crucial in foiling future plots.

"In the preceding months, there had been a degree of scepticism about the
terrorism threat in the media: surely it couldn't happen here?" he said.

"The fact of 7/7 ended those arguments and led to a step-change in the nation's
counter terrorism defences."

He referred to a later plot in which a British-based terror cell plotted to blow
up airliners using home-made liquid bombs.

If you would like to leave a tribute or share your memories of the day, you can
do so using the form below

"A year later we detected and, with partner agencies, prevented al Qaida's most
ambitious plot - to bring down multiple airliners on US cities using liquid
bombs on flights from London," Mr Parker said.

"Thousands would have died. I'm not sure we would have detected it without the
uplift that followed 7/7."

The Director General of the Security Service went on: "These and other appalling
acts are attempted by individuals who have grown up here but decided for
whatever twisted reasons to identify their own country as the enemy.

"They are a tiny fraction of the population. But the continuing fact that some
people, born in the UK, with all the opportunities and freedoms that modern
Britain offers, can nonetheless make those sorts of warped choices presents a
serious societal and security challenge.

"The terrible events in London on 7 July 2005 are enduring reminders of the
reality of what MI5 is striving every day to prevent."

MI5 was criticised by a coroner at the end of an inquest into the deaths of the
52 people who died when suicide bombers attacked London's transport system.

She raised concerns about how the service investigates and prioritises suspects
but rejected claims that security agency failings caused or contributed to their
deaths.

In a statement to mark the tenth anniversary of the outrage, Mr Parker, who had
taken over as counter terrorism director a few months earlier, said: "We had
always known - and said publicly - we simply can't find and stop every terrorist
plot.

"We could not have prevented 7/7. While it remains true that we thwart most
attempts, the rare occasions when terror attacks occur stand as stark moments in
contemporary history."

Mr Parker said the "shocking and brutal" murder of holidaymakers in the Tunisian
beach massacre has "yet again brought the reality of terrorism to the fore",
adding that on Tuesday Britain remembers "the victims of another dreadful day".

Recalling the events of 7/7, he said: "We all know where we were that Thursday
morning ten years ago when 52 people died at the hands of terrorists in London.

"I remember all too well an ominous news report about disruption caused by
'power surges' on the Tube.

"The truth about those disgusting murders, the injuries to hundreds of others,
and the many lives affected quickly became apparent."

Emotional moment 7/7 survivor Gill Hicks meets the policeman who saved her life

London 7/7 bombings your memories/tributes (JotForm)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:46 AM GMT

7/7 bombings: Commuters 'walk together' to show solidarity with victims of
devastating terror attack;
The 'walk together' event saw people get off the London Underground one stop
earlier than usual

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 178 words


Thousands of commuters today showed solidarity with victims of the 7/7 bombings
by walking to work.

The 'walk together' event saw people get off the London Underground one stop
earlier than usual to walk the rest of the way to work.

Many people tweeted images of their walk along with messages of support.

walk together

walk together

together

7/7

If you would like to leave a tribute or share your memories of the day, you can
do so using the form below

Today marks the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 bombings, the worst ever terrorist
attack on British soil.

On July 7, 2005, 56 people were killed by the co-ordinated assault on London,
the first ever suicide attack in the UK.

Among the casualties were the four bombers, while more than 700 were injured.

walk together

First in a series of attacks were three bombs which hit the London underground
just after 8.50am at Liverpool Street, Edgware Road and between Russell Square
and King's Cross.

Around an hour later, another bomb went off on a bus, number 30, at Tavistock
Square.

London 7/7 bombings your memories/tributes (JotForm)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Muslim leader hits out on terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 93 words


A Muslim leader has condemned terrorist attacks which hit Tunisia, France and
Kuwait.

Director of Cowley's Oxford Islamic Information Centre Hojjat Ramzy said the
attacks last Friday were not in the "name of the holy month of Ramadan".

The attacks came as Muslims across the country fast from dawn to dusk during
Ramadan.

He added: "The terrible killings were totally against the spirit of this holy
month and the teachings of Islam.

"My heart goes out to the families of these innocent people. We all need to
spread the message of peace across the globe, not war."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 11:41 AM GMT

London falls silent to remember the victims of 7/7 terror attacks

BYLINE: Justin Davenport, Joe Murphy, Pippa Crerar, Mark Blunden

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 901 words


London paused in silence today to remember the July 7 attacks on the Tube and
bus network as political leaders and police officers warned of an enduring
threat from terrorism.

The capital - and country - fell silent to mark the 10th anniversary of the
atrocity in which four suicide bombers murdered 52 people and injured hundreds
more.

Survivors, relatives of the dead and rescuers from the emergency services joined
together in a series of emotional tributes. At 8.50am - the exact time the first
bombers struck - David Cameron led Boris Johnson, senior police officers and
politicians to lay wreaths at the 7/7 memorial in  Hyde Park.

At Russell Square Tube station -where 26 people died - Gill Hicks, who lost both
legs below the knee in the blast, returned to lay flowers.

There were also emotional scenes at Tavistock Square, the scene of the last
attack when a bomb ripped through a No30 double-decker at 9.47am after it had
been diverted because of the earlier bombings.

The blast killed 13. Royal Mail worker Shyanuja Parathasangary, 30, - known as
Shyanu - was on her way to work in Paddington when she was killed. Today her
mother collapsed as she arrived at scene and had to be supported by family.

A card left to "Our Precious Daughter" from "Mum & Dad" said her death had left
"two broken hearts".

At Edgware Road station, families of the six victims, TfL staff and police
gathered in the ticket hall for a minute's silence at 8.50.  Commuters halted at
the ticket barriers for a moment of reflection.

One man stood, with his head in his hands, silently crying. A woman walked from
the crowd wiping away tears.

Floral tributes were also left at Aldgate station, where seven people died, and
one man stopped to pray at the entrance.

Mr Cameron paid tribute to the "grace and the dignity" of families who lost
loved ones.

The Prime Minister said: "Ten years on, this is one of those days where everyone
remembers exactly where they were when they heard the news.

"It's a day when we recall the incredible resolve and resolution of Londoners
and the United Kingdom, a day when we remember the threat we still face but
above all it's a day when we think of the grace and the dignity of the victims'
families for all they have been through and we honour the memory of those
victims."

He also said that the Tunisian beach massacre showed the danger remains 10 years
on but vowed the nation would not be cowed by violent extremists.

Mayor Mr Johnson wrote on his wreath at Hyde Park : "Ten years may have passed,
but London's memory is undimmed. We honour again today the victims of 7/7. You
will live forever in the hearts of the people of this city."

Related stories

A bunch of flowers was left with a card signed by "a fellow Londoner" which
said: "Thinking of each & every one of you. You are not forgotten."

Mr Johnson said the four suicide bombers had "failed in their aim" because
Londoners' values and way of life had not changed. "Ten years on if you look at
London you could not say they have chipped any paint on it at all."

He said the terrorists "didn't in any way change the fundamentals of London and
what makes this city great", adding: "Indeed, it's gone from strength to
strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

But Mr Johnson warned the threat remained from a "tiny minority". "We're as
ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine there are preparations going
on all the time in the event of all kinds of attacks."

Hundreds of Londoners took to Twitter to pay their own tributes and talk of
where they had been when the bombs exploded.

In pictures: July 7, 2005, London bombings

Met Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said the service was a time to remember
"how strongly we came together to stand up to the threat we faced, and to send a
message to terrorists that London was, and continues to be, strong, united and
vibrant."

He added: "For so many of my officers and staff the 7th of July 2005 is a day
that they too will never forget. A day that doing their duty meant running
towards scenes of horror that were unimaginable, not knowing what would face
them when they arrived and doing their absolute very best to help."

There was also a memorial service at St Paul's attended by the Duke of York, Mr
Cameron, Mr Johnson, Tony Blair and Ken Livingstone, who was Mayor at the time
of the attacks.

In an address at the St Paul's service of commemoration, the Bishop of London,
Richard Chartres, said: "Soon after 7/7 the families and friends of the victims
compiled a Book of Tributes.  It is a taste of the ocean of pain surrounding the
loss of each one of them."

A period of quiet was observed across the capital's public transport network.
Met Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the country's most senior
counter-terrorism officer, called on communities to "step forward" in the fight
against radicalisation.

Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, said the "continuing fact" that some British
citizens were prepared to target their own country presented a "serious societal
and security challenge".

On the day of the bombings London was celebrating winning the 2012 Olympics, the
previous day.  Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22,
Hasib Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station. They took a
train to King's Cross, hugged and separated to carry out their atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sutton Guardian

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

7/7 10 years on - Sutton remembers the horror of the deadliest terror attack on
UK soil

BYLINE: Anders Anglesey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


Today the country reflects on the anniversary of the 7/7 bombings where Sutton
Police were among the first emergency services to respond following the
deadliest terrorist attack on UK soil.

10 years ago Sutton Police helped victims and survivors after four bombs
exploded in central London killing 52 innocent people, and injuring around 700.

The four bombers also died during the attacks.

In the early hours of the morning of July 7, 2005, West Yorkshire-based bombers
Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, and Germaine Lindsay, 19, left
Leeds in a rented car and drove south to Luton where they picked up the fourth,
and youngest, member of the group, Hasib Hussain, 18, before they continued via
train to King's Cross.

Khan, Tanweer and Lindsay then entered King's Cross station around 8.38am,
hugged each other and went their separate ways boarding trains on the Central
and Picadilly lines.

The three detonated their explosives just minutes after they had separated at
around 8.50am on the underground at Aldgate, Edgwar Road and Russell Square.

Hussain, the youngest of the four at 18, later blew himself up on a the upper
deck of the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square around 9.47am.

The superintendent at the time, Warren Shadbolt, who is still with Sutton
Police, praised the officers who he said endured the most "appalling" conditions
as they attended to the survivors.

July 7 London bombings 10th anniversary: Facts and figures from 7/7 terror
attacks aftermath

July 7 London bombings 10th anniversary: Timeline of key events before and after
7/7 terror attacks

July 7 London bombings 10th anniversary: Remembering the 52 people killed in 7/7
terror attacks

Inspector Warren Shadbolt was with Sutton Police at the time of the 7/7 attacks

In July, 2005, he said: "They performed fantastically well in appalling
conditions - conditions that many of us thankfully will never have to face.

"They escorted people from the train, they freed them from areas where they were
trapped, they provided first aid to very badly injured people and they provided
comfort to others on the scene.

"You think it- they did it- they undeniably saved lives."

He added: "We're all very proud of what they did - but that's not to take away
the pain of the appalling, cruel and terrifying act that occurred."

The Mayor of Sutton, Councillor Muhammad Sadiq, will be attending a memorial
service marking the 10th anniversary of the bombings at St Paul's Cathedral at
11am today.

Families of the victims and survivors will also be in attendance, alongside HRH
The Duke of York, Mayor of London Boris Johnson and members of London's
emergency services.

Sutton Council is holding a minute's silence starting at 11.30am this morning.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 7:52 PM GMT

7/7 anniversary: Britain remembers the London terror attacks;
Watch as the country marks the 10th anniversary of the terrorist atrocity that
claimed the lives of 52 Londoners

BYLINE: By Vin Shahrestani and PA, video source ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 280 words


Britain paused to remember the <em class="bold">July 7 attacks<em class="bold"
/>amid a welter of warnings about the enduring and changing threat from
terrorism a decade on.

The country fell silent to mark the 10th anniversary of the atrocity in which 52
people were murdered and hundreds more injured when four suicide bombers
attacked London's transport network.

The bombers, British Muslims inspired by al-Qaeda, set off from King's Cross
that morning and blew themselves up aboard three tube trains and a bus in the
deadliest attack on London since World War II. As well as the dead, more than
700 people were injured.

The period of quiet took place during a service at St Paul's Cathedral -
attended by the Duke of York - and was observed across the capital's public
transport network.

Announcements were halted and bus drivers were asked to bring vehicles to a
stop.

<em class="bold">Survivors                                          <em
class="bold">,                                            <em
class="bold">relatives of the dead                                          <em
class="bold" />and <em class="bold">members of the emergency services were been
invited to the event.

Wreaths were laid beforehand at the permanent Hyde Park memorial, where a second
service was attended by the Duke of Cambridge.

Relatives of victims, as well as survivors, were seated next to the permanent
memorial as members of the public looked on from behind barriers.

The Rock Choir sang, the crowd heard readings and more flowers were laid at the
spot where Prime Minister David Cameron and Mayor or London Boris Johnson laid
wreaths earlier.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 2:42 PM GMT

7/7 anniversary: Britain remembers the London terror attacks;
Watch live as the country marks the 10th anniversary of the terrorist atrocity
that claimed the lives of 52 Londoners

BYLINE: By Vin Shahrestani and PA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 207 words


Britain paused to remember the July 7 attacks amid a welter of warnings about
the enduring and changing threat from terrorism a decade on.

The country fell silent to mark the 10th anniversary of the atrocity in which 52
people were murdered and hundreds more injured when four suicide bombers
attacked London's transport network.

The bombers, British Muslims inspired by al-Qaeda, set off from King's Cross
that morning and blew themselves up aboard three tube trains and a bus in the
deadliest attack on London since World War II. As well as the dead, more than
700 people were injured.

The period of quiet took place during a service at St Paul's Cathedral -
attended by the Duke of York - and was observed across the capital's public
transport network.

Announcements were halted and bus drivers were asked to bring vehicles to a
stop.

Survivors,                                            relatives of the dead and
members of the emergency services were been invited to the event.

Wreaths were laid beforehand at the permanent Hyde Park memorial, where a second
service, to be attended by the Duke of Cambridge, will take place later,
featuring music, a series of readings and the laying of flowers.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:28 PM GMT

7/7 anniversary in pictures: Victims of London terrorist bombings remembered;
Britain fell silent on the 10th anniversary of the July 7 terrorist attacks in
memory of the 52 people killed in London.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 20 words


Britain fell silent on the 10th anniversary of the July 7 terrorist attacks in
memory of the 52 people killed in London.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 12:22 PM GMT

7/7 bombing: Victim Gill Hicks meets the policeman who saved her life;
Gill Hicks, who lost both legs in the July 7 terror attacks, is reunited with
her rescuer 10 years after the dreadful events which claimed 52 lives

BYLINE: By Vin Shahrestani video source ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 138 words


Gill Hicks, a 7/7 survivor was today reunited, in an emotional scene, with the
officer who saved her during the terrorist attack in London .

Ms Hicks was standing on a busy Piccadilly line train in the morning rush hour
10 years ago, when Jermaine Lindsay detonated a bomb between King's Cross and
Russell Square.

Twenty-six people died in that one attack and Ms Hicks would have been one, were
it not for Pc Maxwell pulling from the wreckage.

Losing 75 per cent of her blood and both her legs, Ms Hicks was the last person
to be rescued from the day's attack. Her doctors did not expect her to live.

Yet Ms Hicks pulled through and 10 years after that fateful day, she exchanged
hugs with her rescuer.

Watch the video above for to see the tender moment                     they were
reunited.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:39 AM GMT

7/7 anniversary: Britain remembers the London terror attacks;
Watch live as the country marks the 10th anniversary of the terrorist atrocity
that claimed the lives of 52 Londoners

BYLINE: By Vin Shahrestani and PA

LENGTH: 258 words


Britain will pause to remember the July 7 attacks amid a welter of warnings
about the enduring and changing threat from terrorism a decade on.

The country will fall silent to mark the 10th anniversary of the atrocity in
which 52 people were murdered and hundreds more injured when four suicide
bombers attacked London's transport network.

The bombers, British Muslims inspired by al-Qaeda, set off from King's Cross
that morning and blew themselves up aboard three tube trains and a bus in the
deadliest attack on London since World War II. As well as the dead, more than
700 people were injured.

Events are being held to mark the anniversary, including a national minute's
silence at 11.30am.

The period of quiet will take place during a service at St Paul's Cathedral -
attended by the Duke of York - and will be observed across the capital's public
transport network.

Announcements will be halted and bus drivers asked to bring vehicles to a stop
if they can do so safely.

Tube services will run as normal but passengers will be asked to observe the
silence and announcements will be halted for the duration, Transport for London
said.

Survivors,                                            relatives of the dead and
members of the emergency services have been invited to the event.

Wreaths will be laid beforehand at the permanent Hyde Park memorial, where a
second service, to be attended by the Duke of Cambridge, will take place later,
featuring music, a series of readings and the laying of flowers.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 7, 2015 Tuesday 10:39 AM GMT

MI5 Director General: 'We could not have prevented 7/7';
While it remains true that we thwart most attempts, the rare occasions when
terrorist attacks occur stand as stark moments in contemporary history

BYLINE: By Andrew Parker Director General of MI5

LENGTH: 208 words


The shocking and brutal murder of so many innocent holiday-makers in Sousse has
yet again brought the reality of terrorism to the fore.

Today we remember the victims of another dreadful day. We all know where we were
that Thursday morning 10 years ago when 52 people died at the hands of
terrorists in London. I remember all too well an ominous news report about
disruption caused by "power surges" on the Tube. The truth about those
disgusting murders, the injuries to hundreds of others, and the many lives
affected quickly became apparent.

These and other appalling acts are attempted by individuals who have grown up
here but decided for whatever twisted reasons to identify their own country as
the enemy. They are a tiny fraction of the population. But the continuing fact
that some people, born in the UK, with all the opportunities and freedoms that
modern Britain offers, can nonetheless make those sorts of warped choices
presents a serious societal and security challenge.

The terrible events in London on July 7 2005 are enduring reminders of the
reality of what MI5 is striving every day to prevent.

Andrew Parker is the Director General of MI5. This article was first published
on the MI5 website

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 8:00 AM GMT

7/7 bombings: how the day unfolded;
Look back at the archive footage of the day London's transport was crippled by
several terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Keely Lockhart words by Robert Midgley

LENGTH: 100 words


On July 7 2005, London's transport network was targeted by terrorist
organisation Al-Qaeda in a series of bombings during the morning rush-hour.

There were four suicide bombers across London whose detonations killed 52 people
and injuring over 700.

On the day central London was on lockdown by emergency services and people were
urged not to use the transport system.

Intelligence services and police said they had no forewarning of an impending
attack, although one of the bombers had been known to MI5 in the past.

It is said to be the UK's worst terrorism incident since the 1988 Lockerbie
bombing.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:30 AM GMT

Britain remembers victims of 7/7 London terror attacks ten years on;
52 people were killed by four home-grown terrorists in July 7, 2005

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words


Britain will pause for a minute's silence at 1130 today to remember the July 7
attacks amid warnings about the enduring threat from terrorism a decade on.

David Cameron has said the Tunisian beach massacre showed the danger remains but
vowed the nation would not be cowed by extremists.

e

Tony Blair, the prime minister when 52 people were killed by four home-grown
terrorists in July 7, 2005, says the battle against Islamist extremism must be
fought on the ground.

Mayor of London Boris Johnson says the 7/7 killers "failed in their aim".

Speaking to reporters in Hyde Park, he said the terrorists "didn't in any way
change the fundamentals of London and what makes this city great", adding:
"Indeed, it's gone from strength to strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

But Mr Johnson said today people have to remember that "the problem has not gone
away", adding: "We're as ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine
there are preparations going on all the time in the event of all kinds of
attacks.

On Thursday July 7 2005, the four suicide bombers Shehzad Tanweer, 22 Mohammed
Sidique Khan, 30, Hasib Hussain, 18 and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, arrived at King's
Cross at around 8.23am.

At 8.30am four men fitting their descriptions are seen hugging before splitting
up. Khan boarded a west-bound Circle Line train, Tanweer an east-bound Circle
Line train, and Lindsay a south-bound Piccadilly Line train. Hussain also
appears to walk towards the Piccadilly Line entrance.

At 8.50am three bombs exploded within a minute on London Underground trains and
today at 8.50 silences were held to pay tribute to those who died.

At Edgeware Road people, who were visibly moved, brought flowers to the station:

a

a

Flowers have also been laid at Aldgate.

d

Earlier David Cameron tweeted: At 11.30am today, the country comes together to
remember the victims of one of the deadliest terrorist atrocities on mainland
Britain. Ten years on from the 7/7 London attacks, the threat continues to be as
real as it is deadly - but we will never be cowed by terrorism.

s

sa

A tweet from St Paul's Cathedral said: "This great, diverse, ingenious, tolerant
and respectful city. This London"

s

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe also laid a wreath
during the short, sombre ceremony in Hyde Park.

Speaking earlier, Mayor of London Boris Johnson said the four suicide bombers
had "failed in their aim".

He said the terrorists "didn't in any way change the fundamentals of London and
what makes this city great", adding: "Indeed, it's gone from strength to
strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

But Mr Johnson said today people have to remember that "the problem has not gone
away", adding: "We're as ready as we think we can be, and as you can imagine
there are preparations going on all the time in the event of all kinds of
attacks."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:45 AM GMT

7/7 bombings: Live updates as the country marks the 10th anniversary of the
terror attacks in London;
It has been 10 years since the worst ever terror attack on British soil killed
52 innocent people and left more than 700 commuters injured

BYLINE: By Cathy Owen

LENGTH: 102 words


Today marks ten years since the 7/7 terror attacks in London.   It was on July
7, 2005 when four bombs went off in the capital, claiming the lives of 52
innocent men and women, and injuring more than 700 commuters.  Today, a series
of events will take place across the UK to remember the worst ever terrorist
attack on British soil.  A minute's silence will take place at 11.30am. Bus
drivers in London will pull over if they are able too and London Underground
passengers will be reminded of the silence during their journeys.  Live updates
as the country marks the 10th anniversary of the terror attacks in London

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                        July 7, 2015 Tuesday 9:56 PM GMT

PRINCE WILLIAM ATTENDS COMMEMORATION SERVICE FOR 7/7 TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 128 words


PRINCE WILLIAM paid tribute to the victims of London's 7/7 terrorist attacks on
Tuesday (07Jul15) by attending a memorial service for the victims.

The British royal commemorated the 10th anniversary of the London bus and train
bombings in London's Hyde Park, where he met survivors, victims' families and
emergency workers, and laid a wreath as a tribute to the 52 people who perished
in the atrocities.

The 33 year old was the only dignitary to attend the ceremony, but a national
service of commemoration was held at St. Paul's Cathedral earlier in the day.

Prince William's appearance comes two days after he and his wife Catherine,
Duchess of Cambridge baptised their daughter, Princess Charlotte, at St. Mary
Magdalene church in Norfolk, England on Sunday (05Jul15).

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              July 7, 2015 Tuesday

Global terror attacks show bombings were not response to Iraq, says Blair

LENGTH: 578  words


TONY BLAIR has described how he wrestled with life-or-death decisions about
heeding terrorist threats in the wake of the 7/7 bombings.

The former prime minister said one of the biggest challenges had been striking a
balance between keeping the public safe and avoiding shutting down London.

He also again denied that the UK had brought such attacks on itself by joining
the war in Iraq.

In an interview with LBC radio, Mr Blair said he was hosting the G8 summit in
Gleneagles when news of the attacks broke in 2005.

"This was literally the day after we had won the Olympic bid for Britain. It was
a moment of great euphoria for the country, for me it was a huge moment of joy
and hope for the future," he said.

"I remember sitting having a bilateral discussion with the president of China
when someone came in and handed me a slip of paper which said there has been an
incident and you have to come out of the meeting quickly.

"I came out and then I was told about the first attacks. At the time it wasn't
quite clear exactly what it was. Within 20-30 minutes it became quite clear and
I spoke to Charles Clarke who was the home secretary at the time.

"As the day progressed, it became obvious that this was a severe set of
terrorist attacks."

Mr Blair said his first response was to try to "bring people together" and deal
with the "huge trauma" suffered by the capital.

He added: "One of the things that happens in these situations is that you get
warnings and you cannot be sure if they are reliable or not. For the next few
weeks we were in constant anxiety as to whether each time a warning came about
whether we should shut down the Underground ...

"We thought at the time there was a distinct possibility these attacks would not
be a one-off. I remember we were having meetings the whole time about whether we
would be suffering another attack, whether each time we got a warning what would
we do about that warnings.

"Obviously you have a duty of care to people, on the other hand if you keep
shutting down the city every time there is a warning, you are going to bring it
to a stop.

"It was an incredibly difficult set of decisions during that time.

"We did take one or two of the warnings very seriously and shut the Underground,
or parts of it. But then we came to a point where I decided we wouldn't just
keep on doing this."

Interviewed by his former Cabinet colleague Dame Tessa Jowell, Mr Blair denied
that the terrorist attacks could be portrayed as a response to his foreign
policy.

"One of the most important things to do here is look at this in the bigger
context," he said.

"9/11 in New York was probably the first really large scale terrorist attack.
Obviously, we had certain foreign policy responses to that.

"The problem is that even those countries that didn't participate in Iraq at
all, like France, are now subject to these attacks.

"We have seen them most recently in Tunisia. Countries like Belgium or Norway,
who are countries that have no real foreign policy presence, are also subject to
this.

"This is a global problem ... and the only way of dealing with it ultimately is
for people to come together whatever their faith background and say we are
united against this terrorism, and to say we are not going to allow anyone to
excuse themselves by saying the slaughter of totally innocent people is somehow
a response to any decision by any government.

"It is the responsibility of those who carry out the attacks of terrorism and
those who incite them."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday

At least 500 killed in Kenya terror attacks since 2012 - report

LENGTH: 355 words


Text of report by Angira Zadock entitled "500 killed in recent terror attacks"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 8 July

At least 500 people have been killed in about 150 separate attacks from 2012 to
June 2015 countrywide.

Most of the deaths have been in Nairobi, Garissa and Mandera. Mandera has
witnessed the highest number of attacks.

Between January 2012 and December last year, 312 people were killed. Nairobi had
113 deaths and Mandera accounted for 68.

Sixty-seven others were killed in Lamu County, according to the police.

On 2 April, terrorists killed 148 people at Garissa University College, the
highest toll in a single attack.

The Tuesday morning raid in Mandera occurred just five days after nine herders
were shot dead by Al-Shabab militants in the same county.

On 2 July, at around 4 p.m., at Adan Jiro in Fino Location, 15 people who were
tracking 26 camels that had gone astray were attacked while resting at a dam.

They were surrounded by gunmen who shot and killed the nine. The victims were
identified as Mohammed Gabow Takoi 28, Mohammed Mohamud Ibrahim 50, Abdulahi
Noor Maalim Aden 38, Abdi Ali Amed 45, Yusuf Abdirahim Ahmed 34, Muhamud Bare
28, Abdi Kuresh Maalim 40, Aden Abdulahi Aden, 37, and Abdi Ibrahim Yakub, 62,
who was the owner of the dam.

Their bodies were buried immediately at the Lafey sub-county headquarters.

On 16 March, at 8.30 p.m., four people were shot dead by gunmen in Mandera town,
two days after Governor Ali Roba's convoy was ambushed on the Mandera-Arabia
road, leaving two policemen and a civilian dead.

Rocket-propelled grenade

A former chairman of the Mandera County Council was killed when two vehicles in
the convoy were hit by a rocket-propelled grenade.

On 26 February, one person was killed and two others injured in Mandera town.

The three were ambushed by gunmen and sprayed with bullets as they headed home
from a hotel around 8 p.m.

Mandera County Commissioner Alex ole Nkoyo said the three were attacked by
suspected Al-Shabab gunmen, who had crossed into Kenya from Bula Hawa, Somalia.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 8 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday

Kenyan MPs condemn terror attack in northeastern region

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by Stephen Letoo entitled "MPs condemn Mandera massacre"
published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 8 July

Twelve MPs from northeastern yesterday condemned the killing of 14 people in
Mandera County by suspected Al-Shabab militants. The attack left dozens wounded.

The MPs accused security agencies of sleeping on their job. Led by Mandera
Senator Billow Kerrow, the MPs called on the government to deploy more officers
to increase security in the area.

They also called for more patrols. "We want a lasting solution to the insecurity
situation in northeastern. Recruit Somali police to conduct patrols. If they die
they will die in their region," Kerrow said at Parliament Buildings yesterday.
He said the national government should recruit 300 police reservists to every
county in northeastern.

"Once that is done, leave Al-Shabab to us," Kerrow said. The 1 a.m. attack is
said to have been carried out by assailants who sneaked from Somalia, but with
local connections, according to Interior CS [Cabinet Secretary] Joseph
Nkaisserry. "The military camp is only 300 metres from the point of attack. Why
was it hard for them to save the 14 lives?" Mandera women's representative
Fatuma Ali said. The MPs said those who were attacked raised an alarm but they
were ignored.

"The government must ensure Al-Shabab does not make northeastern their base,"
Ali said. "Al-Shabab knows northeastern better than the police themselves, which
is dangerous." Other leaders present were Mandera women's representative Fathiya
Mahabub, Mishi Mboko of Mombasa, Eldas MP Adan Keynan Meru Senator Kiraitu
Murungi said people from central [Kenya] living in northeastern are being
targeted.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 8 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday

Ukrainian law enforcers say thwarted terrorist attack

LENGTH: 231 words


Officers of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) together with military and
police have detained a resident of Luhansk Region's Popasna who was planning to
carry out a terrorist attack in the city, Ukrainian news agency UNIAN reported
on 8 July, quoting the SBU press service.

An antitank mine was seized from the detainee. An investigation is under way.

The SBU has detained a woman, resident of Mariupol, who was actively spreading
anti-Ukrainian propaganda in social networks, UNIAN reported earlier same day
with reference to the SBU press service.

"The malefactor was moderating around 500 groups in social networks, whose total
amount of followers reach nearly 1,5m users. She had been spreading calls for
violent change of the constitutional order, take-over of state power, support of
the terrorist actions in the east of the country, published videos supporting
mobilization of militants and so forth," the SBU press service was quoted as
saying.

The SBU officers seized computer equipment and information storage devices which
apparently prove the woman's undermining activity. Information regarding
possible coordination of her activities by the militants of the self-proclaimed
Donetsk People's Republic is being checked.

A criminal case has been opened.

Sources: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1205 gmt 8 Jul 15; UNIAN news
agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1009 gmt 8 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 8, 2015 Wednesday 2:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror victims' pal corners Russell Brand over minute's silence
comments;
Friend of Black Country Tunisia terror attack victims Adrian and Patrick Evans
confronts controversial comic

BYLINE: By birminghammail

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 480 words


A pal of Black Country Tunisia terror attack victims Adrian and Patrick Evans
tells Russell Brand to explain himself after the controversial comic dismissed
minute's silence tribute as "b******t" in a YouTube rant.

In the rant about Friday's tribute Brand took aim at the Government, saying
foreign policy and engagement in the arms trade played a part in causing the
attacks.

He said: "There's no point in having a minute's silence on Friday - it's a
minute of b******t.

"As long as during that time, [the Government] continue to sell arms, they
continue to bomb foreign countries - they have no interest in a solution.

"They are only interest is perpetuating the problem and continuing to profit
from it."

But Brand released a video yesterday (July 6), showing an encounter with
white-van-man Rob, a friend of father and son Adrian and Patrick Evans murdered
while on holiday in Tunisia along with their nephew and grandson Joel Richards,
aged 19.

Rob asked the funnyman what he meant by his comments.

Brand claimed the Government had created lists of unsafe countries with "dodgy"
regimes, but then helped arms companies to sell weapons to those same regimes.

He said: "If you really care about these issues, if you want to do something
about the situation, one thing: don't sell weapons to those countries. Don't arm
them.

"Or if you think business is more important than people's lives, just sell the
weapons and shut up."

Brand went on to claim the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were economically
motivated and contributed to the global climate of extremism.

He told Rob: "When I said about the minute's silence, I believe in God, right?
So I pray every day. And when people are suffering I pray for that, that's
something I really really care about.

"Of course I'm not affected in the same way - you knew those people.

"But what I was saying about the minute's silence is, don't do those gestures if
you are contributing to the situation that led to their death."

Rob said that when he saw Brand in the street he felt compelled to stop and ask
him to explain himself.

He said: "I'll be honest with you, the people around me, their reaction was:
"F*****g hell, who does he think he is?"

Memorial and minute's silence at Bescot Stadium for victims of Tunisia terror
attacks

But he found himself agreeing with much of what Brand had to say.

He said the Government sweeps the global arms trade "under the carpet", agreeing
that military action overseas fuels tensions between ethnic and religious groups
at home.

"It's a roundabout scenario," Rob said. "Nothing's ever going to be done, is
it?"

In a lighter moment at the end of the video, the pair found common ground over
football.

Rob is a fan of Aston Villa, while Brand supports West Ham.

Brand said: "We're both claret and blue, we've got different tattoos, but when
it comes to it, despite the superficial differences we do want the same thing."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      July 8, 2015 Wednesday 10:18 AM GMT

East Kilbride holidaymakers scramble to cancel Tunisian holidays after terror
attack;
TRAVEL agencies in the town are striving to help anxious holidaymakers who are
booked up to travel to Tunisian resorts following the Sousse beach massacre
offering free cancellations and alternative destinations.

BYLINE: By Andrea O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 414 words


Travel companies in East Kilbride have been quick to offer concerned customers
free cancellations since the Tunisian beach massacre.

Barrhead Travel and Thomas Cook confirmed this week the majority of travellers
booked on imminent trips to the North African country have taken up the option
to rebook, change or get a refund for their holiday, even though the Foreign
Office is not advising against travel there.

On June 26 Tunisian student Seifeddine Rezgui walked on to the beach at the El
Kantaoui resort in Sousse and opened fire, killing 38 people - including 30 UK
nationals.

However, despite a warning from Police Scotland about the possibility of further
terrorist attacks in Tunisian tourist resorts, the local travel agencies are
saying that some East Kilbride tourists are adament they are "not going to let
the terrorists win" and are sticking to their original travel plans.

Chief executive of Barrhead Travel, Sharon Munro, said on the day of the terror
attack staff at the East Kilbride branch worked through the night to assist
panicked customers who quickly rebooked to new destinations such as Spain and
the Canary Islands.

"When terrible events like this happen we have a dedicated helpline and a team
put in place to look after our customers and give travel advice", said Ms Munro.

"Although some people were still prepared to travel to Tunisia or finish their
holiday, the majority of people, mostly families, understandably had concerns
and wanted to change their destination.

"Staff in East Kilbride worked overtime to deal with any concerns our clients
had about travelling to Tunisia."

Tom Nolan, store manager of Thomas Cook, in the Plaza, said his agency saw a
similar trend.

"At the moment customers are allowed to change their holiday free of charge
until the end of the summer season (October)", he said.

"The majority of travellers who were booked to go to Tunisia wanted to change
and rebooked to destinations like Majorca or Turkey."

Mr Nolan added: "I was surprised that only one family who booked through us came
home early.

"On the whole people from East Kilbride have been quite philosophical about the
situation. They understand these things can happen and are out of your control."

Tourists are being urged to remain vigilant and alert at this time and follow
the advice of Tunisian security authorities and tour operators.

Also, if you see anything suspicious immediately report it to police by calling
the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK falls silent in tribute to victims of 7/7 terror;
10TH ANNIVERSARY OF LONDON ATTACKS REMEMBERED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 758 words


BRITAIN has fallen silent in tribute to victims of terrorism for the second time
in less than a week as the July 7 attacks were remembered.

There were emotional scenes as survivors and families of those killed gathered
on the tenth anniversary of the bombings yesterday.

At 11.30am, a national minute of silence was held after the names of the 52
victims were read out during a service at St Paul's Cathedral.

Tube trains and buses stopped, while tennis was delayed at Wimbledon. After the
silence, petals were released from the dome of the cathedral and four candles
were lit to symbolise the four blast site.

On Friday a similar period of quiet was held a week on from the Tunisian beach
massacre, in which 30 Britons were murdered.

Ten years ago four suicide bombers carried out the single worst terrorist
atrocity on British soil when they attacked London's transport network.
Yesterday morning services were held at the exact time when the capital came
under attack ten years ago.

Mr Cameron and Boris Johnson laid wreaths at the permanent memorial to the 52
people killed at 8.50am, while at the same time victims' families and survivors
gathered at stations affected by the outrage.

It was at around 8.50am a decade ago that there were three almost simultaneous
explosions on the Underground.

The Prime Minister and the Mayor of London were among those who paid their
respects in a short, sombre ceremony at the memorial in Hyde Park, central
London.

In a note attached to his wreath, Mr Cameron wrote: "To the victims of terrorism
in London 10 years ago today. We grieve your loss and will honour your memory
for ever."

Speaking before the service, Mr Johnson said the four suicide bombers had
"failed in their aim".

He said the terrorists "didn't in any way change the fundamentals of London and
what makes this city great", adding: "Indeed, it's gone from strength to
strength in the 10 years since.

"I think most people would say that London has become even more cosmopolitan,
even more welcoming."

At Edgware Road station, survivors laid flowers and gathered alongside families
of victims in the ticket hall for a minute's silence at 8.50am.

Wreaths and bouquets were laid in front of a plaque which commemorates the
attack. A man stood, with his head in his hands, silently crying, as he
remembered the victims. A woman walked from the crowd wiping away tears.

Flowers were laid and silences were observed at King's Cross and Aldgate, while
there was also a service at Tavistock Square, where a fourth bomb was detonated
on a number 30 bus just under an hour after the three blasts on the Underground.

Survivors and victims' relatives were among around 2,000 people to attend the
service at St Paul's. They were joined by dignitaries including David Cameron,
Tony Blair and the Duke of York.

The Bishop of London Richard Chartres told the congregation: "Soon after 7/7 the
families and friends of the victims compiled a book of tributes.

"It is a taste of the ocean of pain surrounding the loss of each one of the
victims."

Later the Duke of Cambridge joined survivors and victims' families as hundreds
gathered at the memorial at Hyde Park for a service featuring music and
readings.

Emma Craig, who was 14 when she was caught up in the Aldgate blast, wept as she
spoke to the crowd.

Now 24, she said: "All of us lost our innocence on that day, our naivety, the
thought that 'something like that could never happen to me' or even to London."
In a deeply moving moment, she said: "Quite often, people say 'it didn't break
us, terrorism won't break us.' .

"The fact is it may not have broken London, but it did break some of us.

"Sometimes I feel that people are so hell-bent on trying to make a point about
terrorism not breaking us that they forget about all the people that got caught
up in it.

"Not for my sake, but for those who were killed on that day and their families
...may we never forget."

July 7 2005 had dawned with London still elated from learning the previous day
that it had won the 2012 Olympics, but within hours, the country was consumed by
horror and grief.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning.

They took a train to King's Cross in London, hugged and separated to carry out
their missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Aldgate, Khan set
his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between King's Cross
and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device on a bus at Tavistock Square at 9.47am.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Above, London Mayor Boris Johnson ¦(left) and Prime Minister David
Cameron (nearest camera) lead police, fire, ambulance and transport chiefs, and
politicians carrying wreaths at the July 7 memorial in Hyde Park; right, the
minute's silence observed by police and ground staff at Wimbledon; far right,
silence at Kings Cross Underground station

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 8, 2015 Wednesday 7:01 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Briton who acted as human shield to protect fiancée
leaves hospital

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 375 words


A HEROIC Briton who used himself as a human shield to protect his fiancée during
the Tunisia terror attack has been released from hospital.

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Mathew James and his wife-to-be Saera Wilson

Matthew James selflessly threw his body over his wife-to-be Saera Wilson to
protect her from a gunman who had opened fire at the popular beach resort of
Sousse.

The 30-year-old was shot at three times and later suffered a heart attack after
being struck in the hip, chest and shoulder.

But now, just 12 days after the terrifying attack took place, Mr James has left
hospital and is now recovering back home.

The father-of-two was initially saved by Tunisian surgeons and flown back to
Britain by a specialist air ambulance team two days later to recover in the
University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff.

After the attack, Ms Wilson, 26, said: "He took a bullet for me. I owe him my
life because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting started."

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Mr James is now recovering back home with his family

Prime Minister David Cameron said he had been "moved" by his brave and
"courageous" actions.

But it was not just the Conservative leader who had been touched by his brave
actions.

An online fundraising page was set up to help the family cope financially while
Mr James, from Pontypridd in south Wales, was recovering from his wounds.

In just 11 days, the page has so far raised over an incredible £16,000.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Thousands raised for Brit who was shot
at...  Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human shield to protect...

Mr James and Ms Wilson thanked the British public for all the support and kind
messages they have received since returning to the country.

In a joint message they said: "We would like to thank all the medical staff at
the hospital for the treatment and care I am receiving."

Mr James and Ms Wilson had been on a two-week break in Tunisia - with their two
children Tegan, six, and Kaden, 14 months staying at home in the UK with
relatives.

But just five days into their holiday, a gunman linked to Islamic State opened
fire on tourists relaxing on sunbeds.

A total of 38 tourists - including 30 Britons - were killed in the horrific
attack in Sousse, which happened on June 26.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      July 8, 2015 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

UK comes to standstill to mark 10 years since 7/7 attacks;
Country remembers 52 victims of terrorist bombings, with buses stopping, offices
falling quiet and train stations pausing to reflect on 10th anniversary

BYLINE: Esther Addley Alexandra Topping and Caroline Davies

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


Britain fell silent in tribute to the dead, bereaved, survivors and rescuers on
the 10th anniversary of the day 7/7 became shorthand for terror.

Related: 7/7 bombings: Britain marks 10-year anniversary of attacks - live

At a service on Tuesday morning in St Paul's Cathedral, the church of national
commemoration, the congregation stood with heads bowed as pink, red and white
petals fluttered down from the whispering gallery, in a powerful act of
remembrance of the 52 murdered.

Across the capital, at 11.30am the one-minute silence was observed on public
transport as tube and train announcements were halted, and bus drivers who could
safely do so brought their vehicles to a stop.

Earlier, David Cameron and the London mayor, Boris Johnson, walked slowly
through the stark thicket of 52 steel pillars of the 7/7 memorial in Hyde Park
to lay wreaths at 8.50am - 10 years to the minute after the first three of the
four bombs were detonated within quick succession.

Among the official wreaths, a bunch of flowers had been placed with a card that
read: "Thinking of each & everyone of you. You are not forgotten," signed by "a
fellow Londoner".

As people made their way to work, many answered the call to walk together,
getting off their tube trains and buses one stop earlier to walk in solidarity
with the victims and many hundreds left physically and mentally scarred by one
of Britain's worst terrorist atrocities.

At the St Paul's service the names of all 52 who died were read aloud. Four
candles were brought to the altar, carried by individuals caught in the carnage
of that day. On each was written the location of the bombings seared into the
public consciousness: Aldgate, Tavistock Square, Edgware Road and Russell
Square/King's Cross.

Four "reflections" on the blast sites were read during the service, attended by
survivors, the bereaved, the emergency services, senior politicians and the Duke
of York.

Aaron Grant-Brooker, described simply as a young Londoner, told the congregation
that these four pieces of London epitomised what is great about this city, "an
international crossroads of diversity and ingenuity, tolerance and respect,
challenge and opportunity."

Related: 7/7 seemed to herald a new era of terror on UK soil - one that did not
materialise

The bishop of London, the Right Rev Richard Chartres, spoke of "an ocean of
pain" caused by the bombings, with the victims, many of them young, coming from
all corners of the world and from many religions. "London is an astonishing
world in a city," he told the congregation.

In the aftermath, amid the "unified agonised outcry" over a terrible crime that
had robbed so many of family and friends, "there could so easily have been
demonstrations of anger," he said. "But beyond the numbing shock there was
solidarity. London had been attacked and there was unity in our grieving."

He led a pledge by leaders of faith communities, including Christian, Muslim,
Jewish, Hindu and others. "We stand united in our determination to resist and
overcome the evil of terrorism. We belong to different faith traditions but we
share a common grief at the suffering which has been inflicted on so many of our
fellow men and women, here and abroad."

A open-air afternoon service at the memorial in Hyde Park brought to a close the
day of reflection. In contrast to St Paul's it had an intensely personal air as
more than 200 family members of the bereaved and 154 survivors gathered to lay a
carpet of bright yellow gerbera flowers, signifying hope, on the metal plaque
bearing names of those lost.

Prince William listened as the haunting strains of The Song of the Doves,
written by the stepfather of victim Helen Jones, 28, with music composed by one
of the survivors, drifted over the park. There were personal statements from the
families, survivors and rescuers, sharing tearful thoughts on the legacy
bequeathed to everyone there by the events on that dark summer's day.

Survivor Emma Craig, just 14 and on her way to work experience when she was
caught up in the bombings, struggled to control her emotions as she told those
gathered: "People say it didn't break us. It didn't break London, but it did
break some of us."

Not for the first time this day, a roll call of the dead was read out.

This was an intimate and uplifting ceremony too, with applause and songs by The
Rock Choir.

It was during rush hour on 7 July 2005 that three bombs were detonated in quick
succession from 8.49am on tube trains. A fourth was detonated on the top deck of
a No 30 bus at Tavistock Square almost an hour later. Many who died there had
already been evacuated from tube stations, some even calling their families to
let them know they were safe.

The four suicide bombers - Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib
Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19 - had met at Luton and travelled to King's
Cross station where, at 8.30am, they were seen hugging before splitting up.

On the eastbound Circle line train at Aldgate, seven people died and 171 were
injured. At Edgware Road, a bomb was detonated on the westbound Circle line
train, killing seven, including the bomber, and injuring 163. Between King's
Cross and Russell Square, 26 victims were killed and more than 340 injured.

At 9.47am, Hussain, who had walked out of King's Cross underground station and
tried unsuccessfully to contact the other three, detonated his bomb on board the
bus. Fourteen people, including Hussain, died and more than 110 were injured.

On Tuesday dozens gathered at Tavistock Square as the time approached 9.47am.
During a roadside service the names of the 13 innocent victims were read aloud
and a candle of remembrance lit by Dr Peter Holden, one of the doctors attending
a nearby British Medical Association conference on the day who rushed to help.

With the other bomb blasts underground, the appalling images of the twisted and
tangled bus indelibly symbolised the damage inflicted. Among those gathered was
the driver of that bus, George Psaradakis, who brought his own floral tribute.
Flowers were also laid at each of the other sites as people stood in silence,
visibly moved.

Cameron said it was a day to "recall the incredible resolve and resolution of
Londoners and the United Kingdom, a day when we remember the threat that we
still face, but, above all it's a day when we think of the grace and the dignity
of the victims' families for all they have been through and we honour the memory
of those victims and all those that were lost 10 years ago today."

Johnson said: "On the 10th anniversary of the attacks we honour the victims, we
remember the sufferings of their families and we pay tribute to the actions of
our emergency services on that appalling day."

The 7/7 killers had "failed in their aim" and "didn't in any way change the
fundamentals of London and what makes this city great", he said, adding:
"Indeed, it's gone from strength to strength in the 10 years since."

The archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, said: "Today, the survivors and
families of the 7/7 London attacks continue the journey that those of Tunisia
have just begun. Our hearts grieve with those who lost loved ones 10 years ago,
and with those so suddenly and cruelly bereaved less than a fortnight ago. We
hold them all before God and our spirits call out to Christ to strengthen them."

The 7/7 attacks came the day after a buoyant London had succeeded in its bid for
the 2012 Olympics.

Esther Hyman, whose sister Miriam was killed on 7/7, said the 10th anniversary
was not a sad day for herself or her mother, Mavis.

"We're too busy to be miserable. We're channelling all our energies into
constructive work," she said of the family's anti-extremism resource for
schools, which they hope will be part of Miriam's legacy. In addition, she said,
they considered the "living" memorial to the 31-year-old artist to be not the
steel pillars in Hyde Park, but a children's eye hospital in India set up in
Miriam's memory.

Related: 7/7: London comes together to remember and reflect 10 years on

Esther said she had dreaded the first anniversary, but mutual support got the
family through. "Since then, I've never dreaded it, in fact it's a funny thing
but I almost look forward to it because it's an uplifting day. She's gone every
day, but the anniversary is always a day that we spend in mutual love and
support."

Three of the bombers had strong connections to the Beeston area of Leeds. At a
non-denominational ceremony at Leeds Civic Hall, Hanif Malik, chief executive of
the Hamara Centre in Beeston, said the actions of the men were in "complete
contradiction" to the values of the Muslim faith, and had left the community
shocked.

British mosques hosted "peace iftars" - the meal eaten at sunset during Ramadan
to end the day's fast - before the anniversary, and many were due to hold
remembrance events on Tuesday night.

At a national iftar at the Islamic Cultural Centre, Shuja Shafi, secretary
general of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "The best way to defy the
terrorist is to increase our bonds of unity, not to single out any one group of
people for blame or opprobrium, especially if they had nothing to do with such
carnage and have actively spoken out against it."

Eliza Manningham-Buller, the MI5 director general at the time, spoke on Tuesday
of the pressures she faced over the security service's failure to prevent the
incident. "You know you can't foresee and prevent everything, but you still
feel, as we all did - and I think later, when there was time for reflection, we
thought it probably quite acutely - the sadness we hadn't prevented it. But at
the time we were really focused on doing our job.

"I can remember when I went home at one or two in the morning, unwinding and no
longer at work, I can remember feeling pretty emotional about it," she told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

Additional reporting by Haroon Siddique and Aisha Gani

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  July 8, 2015
                                 First Edition

Lessons to learn from terror attack;
The Opinion Matrix COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD LONDON 7/7 10 YEARS ON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 91 words


Daily Telegraph As the head of MI5, says: the 7 July attacks ended scepticism
that such attacks could happen in Britain. To ensure it doesn't happen again,
the Government must give intelligence officials everything they need to keep our
streets safe. (Editorial) Huffington Post The killers failed in their real aim.
They did not change the fundamental things about this city that make it great.
In the past 10 years London has become if anything more cosmopolitan, more
exciting, more dynamic, more obviously the capital of the world.

(Boris Johnson)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 8, 2015 Wednesday 5:18 PM GMT

Tunisia announces 100-mile wall will be built along its border with Libya in
response to terror attack which claimed 38 lives

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words



     ·    Barrier will stretch inland from Med coast and contain surveillance
          centres
     ·    Comes after militant killed 38 people - mostly British tourists - in
          Sousse
     ·    Jihadi gunman is believed to have trained with terror group in Libya


Tunisia has revealed plans to build a 100-mile wall along its border with Libya
in the wake of jihadi terror attacks on its soil.

Tunisia Prime Minister Habib Essid said the barrier would stretch inland from
the Mediterranean coast which has become a new breeding ground for the Islamic
State and other terror groups.

The move comes days after a Islamist militant killed 38 people - mostly British
holidaymakers - on a beach in the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

The gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui, is believed to have trained with the Ansar
al-Sharia group in Libya along with jihadis who shot dead 22 people at a museum
in the capital Tunis in March.

Responsibility for both of those attacks has been claimed by jihadis linked the
Islamic State terror group, who have also threatened to carry more such
slaughters over the coming months.

An alleged accomplice of Rezgui is also understood to have fled into Libya and
is believed to be trying to escape to Europe in a migrant boat across the
Mediterranean.

Mr Essid told state TV the wall would be built be by the army, with surveillance
centres spaced along it and would be completed by the end of the year, according
to the  BBC.

Security has also been stepped up massively since the Sousse attack, with more
than 1,400 armed officers deployed at hotels and beaches.

Earlier this week, Tunisia's president admitted his country was 'not safe' and
at risk of 'collapse' following two the deadly terror attacks in the past three
months.

Declaring the urgent reinstatement of 30 days of security measures that were
lifted in March last year, Beji Caid Essebsi said terrorists pose an existential
threat to the North African nation.

Speaking over the weekend, Essebsi said the state of emergency would last 30
days.

In a nationwide televised address, the president officially reintroduced urgent
security measures for Tunisia that had been lifted in early 2014.

Essebsi blamed the poor security in Libya for Tunisia's problems, and the lack
of international resolve in targeting the Islamic State group throughout the
region.

He said Tunisia specifically had been a target of the extremist group because it
had a functioning, secular democracy.

Tunisia's government has promised new laws to increase police powers and provide
for harsher penalties for terrorism convictions. Immediately after the Sousse
attack, the prime minister pledged to post armed guards at tourist sites and
close mosques outside government control.

The country was under a state of emergency from January 2011, at the outbreak of
the Arab Spring, until March 2014.

It initially included a curfew and a ban on meetings of more than three people.

Although those measures were relaxed, police and the military retained powers to
intervene in unrest or for security reasons.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The New Statesman

                                  July 8, 2015

A decade after 7/7, our anti-terror efforts have stopped attacks but lost the
battle for hearts and minds

BYLINE: Shiraz Maher

LENGTH: 929 words


On Friday 3 July, a day before he was killed in a drone strike on the Islamic
State (IS) stronghold of Raqqa, Syria, I spoke with the British fighter Abu
Rahin Aziz. We discussed the London bombings, nearing their tenth anniversary,
and the government's subsequent counterterrorism strategy. He was in bullish
mood, celebrating the attacks and warning of more in the future.

"7/7 was a big blow to the UK," said Aziz, a credit controller who stabbed a
football fan in the head with a pencil in May 2013 before skipping bail to join
IS last year. "They [the government] have failed: in fact, extremism has
increased."

It is hard to dispute Aziz's bleak assessment, given the number of British
citizens who have joined the militants. It is believed that roughly 700 Britons
have relocated to Syria, joining 3,500 people from across Europe. What they see
in the self-proclaimed caliphate is the birth of a new history, the revival of
an ancient Islamic power offering sanctuary, salvation and puritanical truth.

"A land that is free from the corruption and oppression of man-made law and is
governed by the sharia," was the description in a statement by the Mannan
family, a group of 12 British Bangladeshis from Luton who moved to an area of
Syria under IS control at the end of June.

The party included three generations of the same family, led by a septuagenarian
grandfather  the oldest European to have made this journey. They followed
another family of 12, the Dawoods from Bradford, who arrived in Syria a few
weeks earlier.

Millions of pounds have been poured into counter-extremism initiatives over the
past decade. But this has failed to move the likes of Aziz, who also lived in
Luton and who, like one member of the Mannan family, had links to al-Muhajiroun,
the extremist group Tony Blair banned in response to 7/7.

Islam and the west are irreconcilable, Aziz insisted during our conversation.
Muslims can never be at home in non-Muslim societies because the west is at war
with Islam. Terrorism at home is justified because of government policies. "If
the Brit gov [sic] is concerned for their citizens then they need to look to
their actions," he said. "They are responsible for what happens to citizens."
This echoes the sentiments of Mohammad Sidique Khan, who orchestrated the 7/7
attacks.

Aziz said that Britain had committed too many slights against the Muslim world
both historic and current  to spare herself, and that more attacks here are
inevitable. I asked him what victory would look like. "Taking land where we are
able to establish rule of Allah," he said. On a personal level, he described the
mark of success as shahada  attaining martyrdom.

That is what fellow IS adherents believe Aziz achieved hours after he sent me a
message on the morning of 4 July, when a coalition drone strike targeted a
convoy of vehicles in which he was travelling.

Given the number of British citizens now training with Islamist groups in Syria
and Iraq, the terrorist threat to our country has been extended by at least a
generation. On this front the police and the Security Service have delivered
remarkable success over the past decade. They have disrupted complex plots and
prosecuted individuals involved in serious conspiracies. More than half of all
those charged with Islamist-related terrorism offences have pleaded guilty in
court.

However, efforts focused further upstream have largely failed. The government's
"Prevent" strategy has one overarching goal: dissuading young British Muslims
from supporting terrorism against the UK. That approach seems reasonable but has
been poorly calibrated.

The focus on achieving security at home left jihadist campaigns abroad largely
unaddressed. Moreover, some preachers in the UK were allowed to promote radical
views in the hope that this might act as a "safety valve" for otherwise angry
men, dissipating and deflecting their energies.

Some of the most basic ideas that define our society and our whole way of life
were never promoted with enough vigour or conviction. Freedom of speech,
religious liberty and protections for minorities have all been secured only
because of Britain's secular values. This is what gives religious conservatives
the opportunity and right to practise their faith as they see fit while allowing
others to live in freedom and dignity, too. Yet it has never been robustly
explained by our government, let alone celebrated by it.

"[R]egardless of being born and bred in the west, the epitome of democracy, our
Islam was not washed away," the Mannans said in their statement from Syria. Yet
it was secular Britain that allowed them to live as free Muslims, pursuing
whatever version of Islam they saw fit. Will such pluralism be tolerated in
their new homeland?

The Prevent programme has had some successes. One of its aims was to foster new
voices from within Muslim society, breaking the influence of conventional
gatekeeper organisations such as the Muslim Council of Britain, and today ideas
that would have been inconceivable before 7/7 proliferate across the liberal
spectrum.

Herein lies the crucial dynamic at play in the UK. As these fresh viewpoints and
spokespeople have gained prominence, Britain's Muslims have become more
polarised. Those on the extreme fringes have become more alienated and have
retreated further into the security of their reactionary redoubts. Finding ways
to reach them has never been more difficult, or urgent.

Shiraz Maher is a contributing writer for the NS and a senior research fellow at
King's College London's International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                       Copyright 2015 New Statesman Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      July 8, 2015 Wednesday 10:05 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Welsh woman Trudy Jones named as one of 15 British victims
of atrocity;
Tributes are paid to a 'wonderful, wonderful woman' who was caught up in the
Tunisian terror attack

BYLINE: By Huw Silk

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


A Welsh woman is among the 38 people killed in the Tunisian beach massacre on
Friday, it has been announced.

Trudy Jones, a 51-year-old carer from Blackwood, was among those shot by a
terrorist gunman in the city of Sousse.

A total of 15 people from the UK are so far confirmed to be among the dead in
the attack, for which Islamic State has claimed responsibility, but ministers
have warned that total is likely to rise further.

More: Live updates as more details emerge about victims of Tunisia massacre

Tributes have been paid to grandmother Trudy, the first confirmed Welsh victim
of the horror at the seaside resort.

She had been due to fly home on Sunday to return to work at her care home on
Tuesday. 'A wonderful, wonderful person'

Mayor of Blackwood Noel Turner, who has known Trudy for "donkey's years", said
his friend would be greatly missed.

"We are just wholly in shock," he said.

"I have just watched it on the news and all I can say is I feel devastated. The
family must be totally in grief.

"It is unbelievable. She was at our wedding, and my wife grew up with her.

"She was a wonderful, wonderful person, loved by friends and family. I can't
think what her children are going through at the moment.

"She was a happy, sparky girl, and a member of a big family who are all very
close." 'We all need to support each other'

The manager of the Highfields Care Home where Ms Jones worked said people there
had also been shocked by the news.

Shawkat Ilahi told the BBC: "All the staff and residents were in terrible shock
and they still are.

"Myself, I still can't believe it, that it has happened. We were all expecting
her to come back to work on Tuesday."

In a notice to staff at the care home, he added: "I am sorry to have to share
this tragic news. Trudy Jones our activity co-ordinator was one of the unlucky
ones whilst away on holiday in Tunisia.

"We have been informed that unfortunately Trudy Jones is no longer with us. In
these sad moments we all need to support each other."

'A horrific and brutal attack'

In a statement, Islwyn MP Chris Evans said the news a local holidaymaker had
been killed meant the reality of the horror had been "brought home to our
communities".

He added: "When the news broke of the evil attack on innocent holidaymakers in
Tunisia we knew it was likely that British citizens were among the casualties.

"The reality of this horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our
communities with the news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those murdered.

"My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends at this difficult
time." 'I am totally devastated'

A Caerphilly councillor who represents the Blackwood area said he believed the
community would do what it could to support the family.

Nigel Dix added: "I am shocked to hear the news.

"As a local ward councillor I am totally devastated. People go out on holiday
and end up being victims of a terrorist attack. My heart goes out to the family.

"I send my condolences on behalf of everybody in Blackwood - we will all be
thinking of them.

"I am sure the community will be devastated by this news and that they will
offer support to the family in whatever way they can, now and in the future."

A spokesman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it was not yet able to
confirm the identity of the victims of the shooting.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't blame UK's war on Iraq for July 7 terror attacks - Blair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 166 words


TONY BLAIR urged caution in linking the July 7 attacks to his decision to take
Britain into war in Iraq in 2003 as part of a US-led coalition.

"We've got to be really, really careful of this," the former Prime Minister told
ITV news.

"The ringleader of the bombers was actually first in a bomb-making terrorist
camp in July 2001. Before 9/11, never mind before the invasion of Afghanistan or
the invasion of Iraq. There is no justification for taking a bomb on to a bus or
tube and killing people randomly there who are completely innocent.

"Once we understand that the ringleader is somebody who is at a terrorist
training camp in July 2001, that should give us pause before we believe that the
reason these terrible things have happened is the result of our foreign policy."

Mr Blair declined to say whether he thought the invasion of Iraq had played a
part in the later emergence of Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, telling News at
Ten: "There's a time to go into these debates and it's not today."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Blair and wife Cherie leave St Paul's Cathedral <B yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Ukrainian security service prevents terrorist attack in Mariupol

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 9 July

The Security Service [of Ukraine, SBU] has prevented a terrorist act in
Mariupol.

A local resident informed the officers about an explosive device near a public
transport stop near the central market. The operatives who arrived at the scene
found an improvised explosive device which was comprised of a 200-g TNT block, a
detonator with a timing device, batteries, nails, metal nuts and bolts.

The explosive device has been disposed of safely. Now the decision on a criminal
case initiation is being made.

[Video shows stills of what looks like a damaged case of the IED, a still
resembling an x-ray of the IED with nuts and bolts inside.]

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0900 gmt 9 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Nigerian military says mastermind behind Jos, Zaria terror attacks captured

LENGTH: 1505 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 9 July

[Unattributed report: "Military: How Mastermind of Jos, Zaria Bombings was
Nabbed"]

The Nigerian military has revealed how the suspected mastermind mastermind of
the bombings in Jos and Zaria, both of which occurred in the two northern cities
this week, was apprehended.

The Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sani Usman, confirmed this in a
statement yesterday, saying the terror kingpin was captured in Gombe State.

Usman said on Sunday July 5, suspected Boko Haram terrorists carried out
coordinated bomb and gun attacks on worshippers at Aan Taya Mosque, Dillimi
Street, off Bauchi Road in Jos where the Ramadan tafsir prayer was holding and
at Shagalinku restaurant along Bauchi Road also in Jos, Plateau State, leading
to the death of over 48 persons, injuring several other persons and destruction
of property.

He said the terrorists carried out another bomb attack on hapless workers
undergoing a verification exercise at the Sabon Gari Local Government
secretariat, Zaria, Kaduna State, resulting in the death of 25 people including
a two-year-old child, several injuries and destruction of property.

Consequently, he revealed that a security cordon was established in the general
areas especially along Bauchi, Gombe and the North-eastern part of the country
by troops of 3 Division and the Special Task Force, as well as the Department of
State Service (DSS).

"This culminated in the successful arrest of the mastermind of the heinous
terrorist acts and two of his accomplices at a checkpoint in Dadin Kowa, Gombe
State.

"The terrorist kingpin and his colleagues who hid in a trailer while trying to
evade checks were fished out by troops of the Nigerian Army," he disclosed.

According to Usman, the suspected terrorists were being processed for further
action and would face the full wrath of the law.

He urged members of the public to be vigilant, security conscious and report any
suspicious persons, movements, and facilities to the security agencies.

The statement by the army on the arrest of the suspected bomber, however, was
preceded by the call by the United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon,
urging President Muhammadu Buhari to use all the powers at his disposal to stop
bombers working for the Boko Haram Sect.

Ki-moon, who was reacting to the multiple bomb attacks by Boko in recent weeks,
said in a statement yesterday, that the terrorists were deliberately targeting
Christian and Muslim worshippers, off which the latter are presently observing
the holy month of Ramadan.

He urged Buhari to quickly root out the Boko Haram menace, and commended the
countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission and Benin Republic for their
steadfast efforts in the fight against Boko Haram.

He also extended his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, just
as he renewed his call to support the operationalisation of the Multi-National
Joint Task Force (MNJTF).

Meanwhile the terror group, Boko Haram is offering to free more than 200 young
girls kidnapped from a boarding school in the town of Chibok, Borno State last
year in exchange for the release of militant leaders held by the federal
government.

According to an activist Fred Eno, who said he had been negotiating with the
sect for one year, Boko Haram's current offer was limited to the Chibok
schoolgirls.

"The new initiative reopens an offer made last year to the government of former
President Goodluck Jonathan to release the 219 students in exchange for 16 Boko
Haram detainees, the activist was quoted by the Associated Press (AP) as
stating.

He said the five-week-old administration of Muhammadu Buhari offers "a clean
slate" to bring the militants back to the negotiating table which was truncated
by the different security agencies and their poor advice to Jonathan.

Presidential adviser Femi Adesina on Saturday had stated that the Buhari-led
government "will not be averse" to talks with Boko Haram.

In a related development, Buhari yesterday described the failure of the
Jonathan-led administration to act immediately after the Chibok girls were
abducted as unfortunate.

He also said the Nigerian Army's inability to defeat the Boko Haram insurgents
in the country was a paradox and indicative of its dwindling prowess.

The president made the observations yesterday while meeting with the
BringBackOurGirls (BBOG) group at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, noting that in
spite of the successes recorded by the Nigerian Army in foreign missions, the
country now has to rely on its neighbours to fight the insurgents.

Buhari pointed out that a situation where Nigeria was being rated alongside
Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria as a result of the Boko Haram insurgency was very
unfortunate.

While responding to the request made by the BBOG movement led by a former
Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, the president said: "It is paradoxical
what the Nigerian military has achieved (so much) from Burma to Zaire to
Liberia, Sierra Leone and Sudan.

"But Nigeria now has to be helped by Niger, Chad, and Cameroun. How are the
mighty fallen. We will do our best to restore the respectability of our country
and its institutions."

The president also pointed out that the reluctance of the Jonathan
administration to react to the abduction of the girls immediately it happened
was unfortunate, and faulted the security agencies and other government
functionaries for giving conflicting information.

This, he said, depicted the nation in a bad light locally and in the
international arena.

"It's unfortunate that the security agencies and federal government's
conflicting reports initially presented the government and its agencies in a
very bad light both nationally and internationally because the law enforcement
agencies and the government were conflicting each other sometimes within hours
or weeks, that was not very impressive.

"The delayed and the late reaction by the former government and its agencies was
very unfortunate," he said.

While acknowledging the consistency of the BBOG group on its advocacy for the
release of the abducted girls, Buhari assured them that his administration would
take the group's demands seriously.

He said his administration had reached out to the Nigeria's neighbours and other
countries including the G7 for cooperation to end terrorism in the country.

He said: "I think you will agree that the present government takes the issue
very seriously. Within a week of being sworn in, I visited Niger, Chad and would
have visited Cameroun but for the invitation of the G7.

"I'm very impressed with the leadership of this important group (G7) other than
the United Nations itself, as they are very concerned about the security
situation in Nigeria that led to abduction of the Chibok girls by the
terrorists.

"When the terrorists announced their loyalty to ISIS, the whole attention again
was brought squarely on Nigeria. And now we are rated with Afghanistan, Iraq and
Syria. This is very unfortunate.

"After Ramadan, I will visit Cameroun to see the president and then Benin
Republic. But the efforts we have been making, some if we disclose publicly,
will not be consistent with security but I assure you that under the Lake Chad
Basin Commission, the military have met, the Ministers of Defence have met, we
the presidents have met here in Abuja except the President of Cameroun who was
represented by his Minister of Defence.

"Strategy and tactics have been drawn, a multinational taskforce has been put in
place more or less with its headquarters in N'djamena and a Nigerian general as
commander. And then the troops delegated by each of the countries are to be put
in place by the end of the month.

"So I assure you that Nigeria will do its best and we are being helped by our
neighbours."

He assured the group that his administration was doing its best to secure the
release of the kidnapped girls, just as he disclosed that his wish list to the
G7 included a request for assistance to rebuild the infrastructure of the
ravaged North-east.

The BBOG movement, in its demand tagged "ABC of Our Demand", asked the
government to spare no efforts in recovering the abducted girls and demanded an
apology for the failure of governance that led to their abduction.

They also demanded an apology for the failure of governance that led to the
failure to rescue the girls over 400 days after their abduction and demanded
that a structured feedback and communication system between the Borno State
Government, the parents of the abducted girls, and the community leaders be
immediately set up.

They also urged the government to set up a commission of inquiry into the
abduction and rescue of the girls, in addition to the establishment of a missing
persons bureau.

In addition, the group advised the administration to consider the need for
community/proximity policing, among other demands.

Other prominent officials at the event included Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo,
National Security Adviser Sambo Dasuki and other service chiefs.

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English  9 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 6:20 PM GMT

UK citizens advised to leave Tunisia amid fears of another terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 327 words


UK tourists in Tunisia have been advised to leave the country amid fears of a
fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The Foreign Office has warned against all but essential travel following
intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure holidaymakers can leave,
the government said.

Authorities in Tunisia believe terrorist plots aimed at producing mass death
tolls and destruction of the country's economy are in the works, the prime
minister has said.

Habib Essid, addressing parliament, said the fears justify the state of
emergency declared after a second deadly attack on tourists in three months.

Mr Essid implied that personal freedoms guaranteed by the constitution should
not be affected by the "exceptional measures".

The state of emergency was declared on Saturday, days after the July 26 attack
on a hotel in Sousse that killed 38 tourists. That came three months after an
attack on a museum near Tunis that killed 22.

Mr Essid said authorities believe Tunisia faces "terrorist plots with the
objective of creating instability ... and operations aimed at killing as many
people as possible and destroying ... the economy".

Meanwhile the country has also announced plans to build a barrier along the
border with Libya to keep out extremists.

Mr Essid said construction of the barrier, which is aimed at rendering the
border "impassable" by jihadi fighters and vehicles, is expected to run to the
end of the year.

Mr Essid said the barrier, which will be built by the army and private
contractors, will cover about 105 miles of border with Libya and include
fencing, a sand wall, trenches and surveillance posts.

Tunisia's government declared a state of emergency on Saturday - just days after
a gunman killed 38 tourists in the coastal resort of Sousse.

Three months earlier, attackers fired on tourists and others at the National
Bardo Museum in the capital, Tunis, killing 22 people.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 9:26 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British tourists warned of further attacks two weeks on
from shootings;
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, Gateshead, was one of 30 Britons killed on June 26
and two weeks on the government is urging British tourists to leave

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words


British tourists in Tunisia have been advised to leave the country amid fears of
a fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The attack on June 26 claimed the life of Whickham grandmother-of-four Lisa
Burbidge and two weeks on the Foreign Office has said a further terrorist attack
is "highly likely".

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure holidaymakers can leave,
the government said. There are somewhere between 2,500 to 3,000 British tourists
believed to be in Tunisia and a further 300 independent travellers.

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach massacre that claimed the lives of 30 Britons.

But despite increased security since the shootings, the Government said the
extra measures did not go far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the Government did not have intelligence
about any specific threat.

He told the BBC: "While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or
imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture
has developed considerably leading us to the view that a further terrorist
attack is highly likely."

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) urged people due to travel to
Tunisia to contact the company they booked through.

It said: "For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to
Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.
Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

Thomson and First Choice immediately cancelled all outbound flights to Tunisia
for the summer season running up to and including October 31.

All 30 of the Britons killed were Thomson and First Choice customers.

The firm has no customers currently in Tunisia, but "as a precautionary measure
we have taken the decision to repatriate all British Thomson and First Choice
staff currently working in Tunisia within the next 24 hours," a spokesman said.

Thomas Cook UK &amp; Ireland has also cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia
up to the same date and will be bringing all of its customers back to the UK "as
soon as we can".

A spokesman said: "The safety and well-being of our customers is our primary
concern. As always, we have been closely following the advice from the FCO
(Foreign & Commonwealth Office) and local authorities to monitor the situation
in Tunisia. In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have taken this
decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we can
using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 7:40 PM GMT

Brits urged to leave Tunisia IMMEDIATELY as Foreign Office warns new terror
attack is 'highly likely';
UK officials say they deem the threat from terrorist groups in the north African
state to have 'developed considerably' since last month's attack in Sousse.

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 573 words


THE Foreign Office has urged British tourists in Tunisia to leave the country
IMMEDIATELY as another terror attack is considered 'highly likely.'

The stark warning comes after 30 Britons were killed when Islamist gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui massacred tourists on a Sousse beach last month.

And now UK officials say they deem the threat from terrorist groups in the north
African state to have 'developed considerably'.

Tour operator Thomas Cook tonight announced it has cancelled all future bookings
to Tunisia up until October 31, 2015.

It plans to bring all customers currently in Tunisia back home as soon as
possible using third party carriers and 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

Since the attack in Sousse, Britain has been working closely with the Tunisian
authorities to investigate the attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups
in Tunisia.

A Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesman said: "Although we have had good
co-operation from the Tunisian government, including putting in place additional
security measures, the intelligence and threat picture has developed
considerably, reinforcing our view that a further terrorist attack is highly
likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

The FCO specifically advised against all travel to the Chaambi Mountain National
Park area, the Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and
Sakiet Sidi Youssef, the militarised zone south of, but not including, the towns
of El Borma and Dhehiba and within 5km of the Libya border area from north of
Dhehiba up to but not including the Ras Ajdir border crossing.

The department also advised against all but essential travel to the rest of
Tunisia.

"If you're in Tunisia and you don't have an essential need to remain you should
leave by commercial means.

"Tour operators are arranging additional flights and will be organising
departures for their customers.

"If you're travelling with a tour operator, you should contact your tour
operator's representative in the first instance.

"If you're travelling independently, you should make your own arrangements to
leave. Commercial airlines are operating.

"If you need consular assistance (above and beyond travel information) you
should contact the British Embassy in Tunis."

A Thomas Cook spokesman said: "As a result of the change in the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice to travel to Tunisia, Thomas Cook can confirm
that it has cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up until 31st October 2015.

"The safety and well-being of our customers is our primary concern. As always,
we have been closely following the advice from the FCO and local authorities to
monitor the situation in Tunisia.

"In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have taken this decision to
bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we can using third
party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

Quick Quiz: News 9/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 11:59 AM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack: Wishaw holidaymakers won't give into to extremists;
Travel agency taking bookings to Sousse

BYLINE: By Colan Lamont

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


People in Wishaw were this week starting to book Tunisia getaways again less
than two weeks after four Scots were among the 38 people killed by an extremist
gunman in Sousse.

Following the June 26 attack in which terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on
innocent tourists sunbathing on beaches near Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, many
people have been too scared to visit the country.

The dead included a couple from Perth and another man and wife from Cumbernauld.

Despite the unrest, independent agency ABR Travel Services say people are
starting to feel more comfortable about visiting the country again.

A spokesman for the Newmains agency, said: " We had some trips booked that were
soon after the shootings and so we had to cancel them. But people booking for
later in the year aren't being put off.

"People realise how great Tunisian people are and how nice the country is.

"Many of our customers have visited the country before and loved it and so they
don't want to be worried about going. People know that it's terrorists causing
problems and that Tunisia isn't the problem.

As long as the Foreign Office consider it safe for people to travel there, we
will have people booking up."

Scott McIlvaney, manager of I4 Travel in Wishaw Business Centre, said: "We had
clients in Sousse at the time of the attack who were staying in the resort but
at another hotel. They heard the bangs and commotions but never witnessed
anything."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Brit tourists in Spain at risk of Islamic State terror attack, Government warns

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 586 words


BRITS holidaying in Spain are at serious risk of being attacked by Islamic State
terrorists, the Government has warned.

The country is at risk of a terror attack and UK nationals are said to be "high
value" targets.

Around 12 million sun-loving Brits flock to the popular holiday destination to
enjoy the Mediterranean coastline every year.

Some of the most popular destinations are the Costa Del Sol - home to Malaga and
Marbella - and the islands of Ibiza and Majorca.

But holidaymakers who travel to Spain are at risk of kidnap, suicide bombings
and car bombings.

The Foreign Office said the terror threat level was increased in June - before
Tunisia's tragic beach massacre.

A total of 30 Brits and three Irish were slaughtered on their sunbeds after
Islamic State-inspired gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire last month.

Rezgui's deadly rampage took place at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in Sousse.

Before Rezgui's sickening attack Tunisia was seen as one of the safer travel
options for Brits looking for sun and sand in North Africa.

Recently the Costas have been rocked by Islamic fanatics trying to enter Syria
to join ISIS.

The threat of terrorism there is described as "high".

An FCO spokesman said: "The situation in Iraq and Syria means there is
considered to be a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK
interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the
conflict."

Spanish police have disrupted a number of groups suspected of recruiting
individuals to travel to Syria and Iraq already this year.

SEE PICTURES OF BRITISH POLICE CARRYING OUT MOCK MASS SHOOTING EXERCISE IN
LONDON

Some of them expressed an intention to carry out attacks in Europe.

"The Spanish authorities also believe that a number of Spanish nationals have
successfully travelled to Syria and Iraq," the spokesman said.

A ten point safety plan has been released for all tourists to follow as the
threat level reaches its highest since the deadly Madrid train bombings in 2004.

Explosions on the Spanish capital's commuter transport system killed 191 people
and seriously injured 1,800 more.

At the time official investigations found the attacks were directed by an
al-Qaida-linked terror cell.

Last year a group of jihadists claiming to be part of ISIS vowed to invade
Spain.

A video posted online saw two militants promising to attack and take control of
the Spanish mainland.

One said: "I tell you, Spain is the land of our forefathers, and, Allah willing,
we are going to liberate it, with the might of Allah.

"I say to the entire world as a warning: We are living under the Islamic banner,
the Islamic Caliphate.

"We are going to die for it until we liberate all the occupied lands, from
Jakarta to Andalusia."

Tourists packing their bags are advised by the FCO: "Attacks could be
indiscriminate and could affect places visited by foreigners.

"You should exercise caution."

Travellers have already been warned of a threat of terrorism in other foreign
holiday hotspots of Turkey, Cyprus and Greece.

Related articles Parents warned to 'lock up children's passports' to stop them
joining Islamic State Family of 'ordinary Yorkshire lads' feared to have joined
IS in 'profound shock' Missing British couple arrested with four kids on
suspicion of heading to Syria Terror on Turkey's beaches: Foreign office warn
Brits about 'high danger' holidays Child executioners: Crowds of savages cram
into Roman amphitheatre to see slaughter

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Funeral of Carly Lovett who was killed in the Tunisia terror attack to be held
on Friday 17th July

LENGTH: 87  words


The funeral of Carly Lovett, 24, who was killed in the Tunisian terrorist attack
on 26th June will be held at All Saints' Parish Church, Gainsborough, on Friday
17th July at 11.15am.

There will be a private crematorium service and a reception following the church
service which will be by invitation only.

A book of remembrance to Carly is available for signing in All Saints' Church
until Thursday 16th July.

Police will be present in the grounds of the church to ensure the unhindered
arrival and departure of the cortege.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hartlepool Mail

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Brits urged to leave Tunisia over fresh terror attack fears

BYLINE: Verity Ward

LENGTH: 425  words


British tourists in Tunisia have been advised to leave the country amid fears of
a fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The Foreign Office has warned against all but essential travel following
intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure holidaymakers can leave,
the government said.

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach massacre that claimed the lives of 30 Britons.

But despite increased security since the shootings the Government said the extra
measures did not go far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: " Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the Government did not have intelligence
about any specific threat.

He told the BBC: "While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or
imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture
has developed considerably leading us to the view that a further terrorist
attack is highly likely."

Between 2,500-3,000 British tourists are believed to be in Tunisia and around
300 independent travellers.

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) urged people due to travel to
Tunisia to contact the company they booked through.

It said: " For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to
Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.
Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

" Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPHM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 6:52 PM GMT

Further terrorist attack in Tunisia 'highly likely' as FCO advises against all
but essential travel;
Guidance comes two weeks after worst terrorist attack against British citizens
since 7/7 bombings

BYLINE: Matt Dathan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 614 words


A further terrorist attack in Tunisia is "highly likely," the UK government has
warned as emergency arrangements were put in place to airlift up to 3,000
Britons out of the country within the next 48 hours.

The Foreign Office updated its guidance to advise against all but essential
travel to Tunisia and urged all British citizens to leave the country as soon as
possible amid fears of a second massacre in as many weeks.

It comes after last month's massacre in Sousse left 30 Britons dead in the worst
terrorist attack against UK citizens since the 7/7 London bombings.

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, said the government acted not because of
any specific threat of an imminent attack but because it could not guarantee the
safety of UK nationals in Tunisia.

The government has urged British tourists in the country to get in touch with
their tour operators to arrange a swift return to the UK, while those travelling
independently have been advised to return on commercial flights, which are
operating normally.

Travel company Thomas Cook has cancelled all future bookings to the country
until October 31 and is bringing all its customers back to the UK on third party
flights. The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) has warned that
travelling to Tunisia is likely to invalidate travel insurance.

There are believed to be between 2,500-3,000 British tourists in in the country
and around 300 independent travellers.

The updated travel advice is a further blow to the Tunisian economy, which
relies on tourism for 15 per cent of its GDP.

A statement from the FCO website states: "Since the attack in Sousse, we have
been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the attack and
the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

The British victims of the Tunisia attack

It is an update from its previous advice following the atrocity last month that
further attacks were "possible" but the travel advice for British tourists
remained unchanged.

Mr Hammond, speaking shortly after the FCO website changed its travel advice,
said: "While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or imminent
threat, since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture has
developed considerably leading us to the view that a further terrorist attack is
highly likely."

Abta told all British tourists in Tunisia to contact their tour operators as
soon as possible. A statement read: For anyone due to travel, you should be
aware that travelling out to Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your
travel insurance policies. Most insurance policies will still provide cover for
travellers in a country at the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

Read more: Tunisia attack: Officials were warned of an imminent terrorist attack
in Sousse - but did nothingRussell Brand confronted by friend of Tunisia
massacre victims after condemning minute of silence as 'minute of
bulls**t'Tunisia attack: Hotel workers speak of moment they risked lives to form
human shield

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 2:00 AM GMT

Rafe Sagarin: The scientist's theory on national security was based on animal
behaviour;
He looked into the octopus' behaviour to think of better ways of protecting the
nation from terrorist attacks

BYLINE: JULIET EILPERIN

SECTION: OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 563 words


Rafe Sagarin was a marine ecologist who pioneered new ways of thinking about
protecting national security through the lens of the environment and animal
behaviour. His 2012 book, Learning From the Octopus: How Secrets From Nature Can
Help Us Fight Terrorist Attacks, Natural Disasters, and Disease, suggested that
policy-makers could learn critical defence techniques by studying how animals
have evolved to counter threats they face in the wild.

Sagarin started thinking about the need for security experts to adapt while he
was working as a science adviser to the then Congresswoman Hilda Solis in the
aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. "I'd watch these other Capitol Hill
staffers, and I noticed that they'd just put their hand over the keys in their
pockets so they didn't have to waste 30 seconds putting it on the conveyer belt
though the security screening - and that didn't set off the alarm when they did
that," he said. "It just made me think, adaptable organisms are going to figure
out a way to get around this."

He argued that decentralised decision-making - in the same way millions of cells
in an octopus's arm can transform its colour based on environmental changes,
without a signal from the animal's brain - would serve the military better than
a centralised, top-down command system. The US Defence Department hired Sagarin
as a consultant, although he faced scepticism.

The science director at Stanford University's Center for Ocean Solutions, Larry
Crowder, remembered sitting on a grant-making panel when Sagarin proposed
bringing together experts from different fields to address homeland threats. "I
thought, 'This is ridiculous. What do evolutionary ecologists have to tell
national security experts?'" Crowder said. "Rafe consistently came up with
really novel ideas that were counter to the narrative that was out there, that
were on the edge. And he turned out to be right."

In Washington, Sagarin pushed for a more comprehensive approach to ocean
management and stronger federal protections for the sea while serving as the
associate director of Duke's Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy
Solutions (2006-09). He then joined the University of Arizona.

Sagarin was born in New Haven, Connecticut. His family spent summers at Cape
Cod, an experience that fostered a connection to the ocean. While doing research
at Stanford's Hopkins Marine Station in California, he and three colleagues
compared the abundance of the shore species off the Hopkins rocks in the 1990s
to those in the same area marked by a 1930s researcher. The findings provided
some of the first evidence that southern species were moving north because of
ocean warming.

Sagarin also guided then-President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore along
the Monterey Bay's intertidal pool in 1998 on the day Clinton announced a
10-year extension of an oil-drilling ban off US coasts. Most recently, Sagarin
was creating a functioning model of the Gulf of California within the
experimental station Biosphere 2, near Oracle, Arizona. He died after he was
knocked off his bicycle by a pick-up truck near Tucson. The drunken driver was
charged with manslaughter. µ JULIET EILPERIN

Raphael Sagarin, marine ecologist: born New Haven, Connecticut 20 June 1971;
married 1999 Rebecca Crocken (two daughters); died near Tucson, Arizona 28 May
2015.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 6:49 PM GMT

Foreign Office advises against all non-essential travel to Tunisia;
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said another terrorist attack on the popular
holiday destination is "highly likely"

BYLINE: By Laura Tacey

LENGTH: 158 words


British nationals are being urged not to travel to Tunisia for fear of further
acts of terrorism.

The Foreign Office has warned against non-essential travel to the north African
country following the recent terrorist attack in which 38 foreigners were killed
at the Mediterranean resort of El Kantaoui.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has said another terrorist attack on the
popular holiday destination with Britons is "highly likely".

Mr Hammond said there was no suggestion of a "specific or imminent threat" but
said the Foreign Office was advising against all non-essential travel there.

Thirty of the 38 tourists killed in the attack last month were British.

Britons in Tunisia have also been advised to leave the country.

It is estimated there are up to 3,000 UK tourists currently in Tunisia plus
several hundred British residents.

The country's president, Beji Caid Essebsi, decreed a state of emergency for 30
days, following the June 26 attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 9:24 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack warning: Safety must come first - but this is a heavy blow
for Tunisian tourism;
Tunisia worked hard to win back holidaymakers after the Arab Spring - now it
could be game over for their holiday industry

BYLINE: By Nigel Thompson

SECTION: LIFESTYLE,TRAVEL

LENGTH: 286 words


Safety of Brits abroad must of course come first - but this is awful news for
the Tunisian tourist industry.

It had worked hard to win back holidaymakers after they fled the North African
nation's sun-kissed Mediterranean shores following the Arab Spring of 2011.

And, indeed, it was celebrating record numbers of UK visitors - 424,709 in 2014
- before the appalling attack on a tourist beach in Sousse two weeks ago.

But if the Foreign Office says you should only visit Tunisia for essential
reasons, then it's game over for the Tunisian holiday industry, at least in the
short to medium term.

This is simply not advice to ignore. Do not go.

Follow the latest as Brits are urged to leave Tunisia

And in any event your insurance policy will almost certainly no longer be valid.

Many Brits had cancelled their trips to Tunisia after the horrific events on
that beach.

But some stuck with their plans, saying they would not be cowed by terrorism.

Now they must come home if they are there, or go somewhere else if they are yet
to travel.

Since the FCO has changed its advice, tour operators are contractually obliged
to offer you a refund or find you an alternative holiday.

And already the major firms such as Thomson, First Choice and Thomas Cook have
said they will do just that and, more importantly, are busy arranging flights to
repatriate their customers and resort staff right away.

Sadly, the hotels in Tunisia that will be closing down just as the main holiday
season starts may not be welcoming guests for some time.

Last Friday the UK rightly fell silent for a minute to remember the 30 innocent
Brits murdered in Sousse.

But perhaps spare a thought for everyday people of Tunisia too. The vast
majority of are lovely folk.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 8:13 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack warning: Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond urges Brits to
flee the country;
The Foreign Secretary says intelligence on potential threats has developed
considerably

BYLINE: By Ben Glaze

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1021 words


Thousands of Britons were tonight urged to flee Tunisia amid fears of a terror
attack.

Up to 3,000 UK tourists in the country were advised to leave, while the Foreign
Office warned Brits still in the UK not to travel to the country unless it was
essential.

The FCO said: "If you're in Tunisia and you don't have an essential need to
remain you should leave by commercial means."

Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice last night cancelled all holidays to the
country until the end of October.

The move comes two weeks after 30 Britons were killed in a gun attack on the
coastal resort of Sousse by Islamic extremist Seifeddine Rezgui.

Updated travel advice warned that a fresh attack is "highly likely".

Follow the latest updates as Britons are urged to leave Tunisia.

British tour operators are arranging an emergency airlift, putting on extra
planes to bring home the estimated 3,000 Britons on Friday and Saturday.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the
Bardo museum earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they
want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to this
attack.

"While we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those
measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively protect tourists from
the terrorist threat.

"Taking all these factors together we judge it is right and prudent to make this
change.

"We have not taken this decision lightly, but our first priority will always be
the safety of our citizens."

He added: "In the days and weeks ahead, we will continue to keep the situation
under close review and to work with the Tunisians to further understand the
threat and to strengthen their security response to it."

The FCO said Britons on Tunisian package holidays should speak to their reps,
while the estimated 300 travelling independently should make their own
arrangements to leave.

Holidaymakers returning earlier than planned will receive a refund for days they
missed, Thomas Cook said.

Passengers due to holiday in Tunisia can get a full refund or switch to another
destination for free.

The company added: "The safety and wellbeing of our customers is our primary
concern.

"As always, we have been closely following the advice from the FCO and local
authorities to monitor the situation in Tunisia.

"In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have taken this decision to
bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we can using third
party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

Meet the Tunisian heroes who formed a human shield during the terror attack on
the beach

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

Tui Travel, which includes Thomson and First Choice, said: "As a result of the
change in FCO travel advice, Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all our
outbound flights to Tunisia for the summer season, which is up to and including
October 31.

"Thomson and First Choice have no customers currently in Tunisia, but as a
precautionary measure we have taken the decision to repatriate all British
Thomson and First Choice staff currently working in Tunisia within the next 24
hours.

"Customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including October 31 will be given
the opportunity to amend their holiday free of charge to any of our destinations
currently on sale, or receive a full refund."

The Association of British Travel Agents said: "Those who have travelled
independently are advised to follow Foreign Office advice and consider if it is
essential to stay in Tunisia.

"For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to Tunisia at
this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.

"Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options.

"If you have booked a package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative
holiday."

British tourist Michelle Ayres, who is staying at the four-star Riadh Palms
hotel in Sousse, said she had not been given any information directly.

She told Channel 4 News: "We haven't been told anything. Everything we have
heard is only what we have read online.

"There's no rep here, so it is just literally all British people together
discussing what we have all read on our own operators' websites."

She added: "Everyone's view, not just myself, is if us Britons are at risk why
put us all on the same buses to remove us from the hotels? Surely, that is the
risk that they want?

"We all feel perfectly safe within the hotel. They have been amazing."

Tory MP Adam Holloway, who sits on the Foreign Affairs Select Committee,
believed officials must have received "new, specific information" before warning
Brits to leave.

He told the Mirror: "I am sure they would be very cautious about telling
everyone to come home."

Labour MP Ann Clwyd, who also sits on the committee, said: "I think it's the
right advice now. But it's going to hit the economy of Tunisia very hard because
it's so dependent on tourism.

"But when the safety of foreigners is clearly an issue - and presumably they
have some intelligence to give this very urgent message now - it must be the
right message."

Fellow committee member, Labour MP Mike Gapes, said: "Normally the Foreign
Office wouldn't advise people not to go to a country, and advise people to
leave, unless they had good reason.

"I am sure they are aware of the absolutely devastating economic impact it will
have on Tunisia. These are very difficult judgements."

Whatsapp Mirror Politics

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 7:16 PM GMT

Brits urged to leave Tunisia IMMEDIATELY as Foreign Office warns new terror
attack is 'highly likely';
UK officials say they deem the threat from terrorist groups in the north African
state to have 'developed considerably' since last month's attack in Sousse

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 927 words


The Foreign Office has urged British tourists in Tunisia to leave the country
IMMEDIATELY as another terror attack is considered 'highly likely.'

The stark warning comes after 30 Britons were killed when Islamist gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui massacred tourists on a Sousse beach last month.

And now UK officials say they deem the threat from terrorist groups in the north
African state to have 'developed considerably'.

Between 2,500-3,000 British tourists are believed to be in Tunisia as well as
around 300 independent travellers.

Tour operators Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice tonight cancelled all
bookings to Tunisia up until October 31st.

Thomas Cook said it plans to bring all customers in Tunisia back home as soon as
possible using third party carriers and 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

The firm has also announced it will operate an extra flight today to bring back
customers.

Thomson and First Choice said they have no holidaymakers in Tunisia, but is
bringing back all staff from the country within the next 24 hours.

The Association of British Travel Agents urged people due to travel to Tunisia
to contact the company they booked through.

It said: "For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to
Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.
Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

Since the attack in Sousse, Britain has been working closely with the Tunisian
authorities to investigate the attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups
in Tunisia.

But despite increased security since the shootings the Government said the extra
measures did not go far enough.

Meet the Tunisian heroes who formed a human shield during the terror attack on
the beach

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

A Thomas Cook spokesman said: "As a result of the change in the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice to travel to Tunisia, Thomas Cook can confirm
that it has cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up until 31st October 2015.

"The safety and well-being of our customers is our primary concern. As always,
we have been closely following the advice from the FCO and local authorities to
monitor the situation in Tunisia.

"In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have taken this decision to
bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we can using third
party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

Thomson and First Choice spokesman said: "Customers due to travel to Tunisia up
to and including 31 October will be given the opportunity to amend their holiday
free of charge to any of our destinations currently on sale, or receive a full
refund.

"Thomson and First Choice are also offering additional flights from airports
across the UK to destinations including the Balearic Islands, Mainland Spain and
Cyprus. In addition to customers being able to amend free of charge, those
choosing these new flights will be offered a £50 discount per person.

"If customers wish to discuss their booking to Tunisia, they should visit the
travel agent that they made their booking with or for holidays to Tunisia booked
online customers should visit their local Thomson or First Choice store or call
the customer service centre on 0800 009 3847 or 0203 636 1998 between 9am-9pm on
Monday-Friday, 9am-8pm Saturday and 10am - 8pm Sunday."

Darryl Mossie-Cox has been staying in Hammamet with his wife and two young
children but they are flying back early today as they are too scared to stay.

The Tube driver, from Kent, said: "We are nervous and want to leave."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Fellow tourist Christina ­Scarisbrick, 35, of Widnes, Cheshire, added: "We are
all on edge."

The move will be a bitter blow to the tourism the ­beleaguered country relies
on.

Visitor numbers are already down since Rezgui's attack on June 26.

Thomas Cook said ­holidaymakers returning early will be ­compensated.

And others due to visit Tunisia can also get their money back or choose another
destination.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

Are you affected by the decision? Call the newsdesk on 0800 282 591 or email
mirrornews@mirror.co.uk

Minutes silence is held for the 30 British victims of the Tunisia attack one
week on

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 12:32 PM GMT

Anders Breivik killings: 'Beautiful' memorial to victims of island terrorist
attack unveiled;
The attack on the idyllic island of Utøya killed 69 people - with many victims
under the age of 18

BYLINE: By Kirstie McCrum

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


A memorial erected in the memory of victims of one of Europe's worst ever
terrorist atrocities has been praised following its unveiling.

The monument on the Norwegian island of Utøya is to remember the 69 people
killed when Anders Behring Breivik went on a shooting spree four years ago this
month.

Completed on Tuesday, it's in the form of a metal ring which weighs half a ton
and is suspended from pine trees.

Named 'The Clearing', it's got all 69 names of the victims engraved into it and
was designed by Bergen-based architects 3RW.

Reaction online has been positive, with many talking about the beautiful
simplicity of the monument.

poly

ciaran

Kolbein Fridtun, whose daughter Hanne Kristine was killed in Breivik's attack,
told NRK: "I get a lump in my throat when I stand here. It is perhaps not
surprising, because my daughter's name is hanging here on the ring."

An open day for special visitors was held today, but the memorial will official
open on July 22.

Anders Breivik sentenced

The killings happened when far-right terrorist Breivik shot young people at a
Labour party camp in 2011.

He arrived on Utøya dressed as a police officer and told those on the island
that he was there for security reasons following explosions in Oslo which he too
was responsible for.

He began shooting at individuals, continuing until the police arrived one hour
after the first alarm call.

Combined, the attacks in Oslo and Utøya left 77 dead, with 69 killed on the
island, 33 of whom were under the age of 18.

Breivik was sentenced to 21 years in prison a year later.

Anders Breivik: How the case unfolded

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 11:38 AM GMT

'Devil cat' terrorises neighbourhood with vicious attacks on people and animals;

Police warn residents to steer clear of feral black cat that has left victims
needing rabies injections and forced a frightened community to stay indoors

BYLINE: By Johnny Greaney

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Even the most strident cat lover would struggle to take a shine to this mad
moggie, that has left a neighbourhood scared to leave their homes.

The aggressive black 'devil cat' has attacked people and animals and forced
police to warn residents to steer clear of its sharp teeth and dangerous claws.

The community in Rockland County, New York, is being terrorised by the feisty
feline that has left victims with bite wounds and deep scratches.

Some have even required painful rabies injections to protect their health,
reports New York Daily News.

Police in Orangetown, New York, said there have been sightings of the animal at
four streets in the town of Pearl River on Saturday and Sunday, with the beast
described as "black in color, aggressive and sickly".

Its disheveled appearance and hostile behavior has people concerned the animal
has rabies. Some said they are afraid to leave their homes.

Resident Chris McKiernan had his Fourth of July celebrations ruined when he was
set upon in his own back garden.

He said: "It's been like lockdown. I feel bad for the kids, they're afraid to go
out."

Joe Saldano told NBC New York: "He leaped at me and I kicked him, and he came
again. I couldn't believe it.

"I kicked him again, like 10 feet. Then again he came. I kicked him across the
patio three times."

Police and animal control officers are still searching for the blood-thirsty
menace.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Funeral service for Tunisia terrorist attack victim to be held next week

BYLINE: Tony Kearney

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325 words


THE funeral will take place next week of a North-East grandmother killed in last
month's terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Lisa Burbidge was one of 38 people killed by a gunman during the beach massacre
in the resort of Sousse on June 26.

The grandmother-of-four will be laid to rest alongside her husband Bill on
Tuesday following a funeral service at St Mary's The Virgin Church in Whickham,
Gateshead.

Mrs Burbidge, mother of two daughters, was on holiday with friends and family
when the gunman struck and was killed on the tenth anniversary of her husband's
death.

Her family today thanked the community for their "heart warming" support during
the weeks since the tragedy.

In a statement released through Northumbria Police, her family said: "Following
the tragic death of our loving mam, Lisa Burbidge we would like to express our
sincere gratitude and thanks to everyone for their kind words, flowers and
support throughout this devastating and difficult time.

"It has been heart warming to see the local community come together as one to
provide comfort and solidarity in the face of this terrible sadness.

"A service will be held at St Mary's the Virgin Church in Whickham on Tuesday,
July 14 at 1pm, followed by a private burial for family and close friends to lay
our mam to rest alongside her loving husband Bill".

An online fund set up to provide a memorial in her honour has so far raised
£2,250 in just nine days.

The family said: "We would finally like to thank Joanne Hamilton who has set up
a memorial fund in memory of our mam and everyone who has donated.

"This fund will be used to create an everlasting memory for a much loved and
special person to all that knew her".

A memorial seat is expected to be installed on the village green outside St
Mary's, where dozens of floral tributes have been left.

Last week more than 100 people including family and friends gathered at the spot
to mark the national minute's silence in honour of the victims.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

British tourists in Tunisia advised to leave the country amid fresh fears of a
terror attack

BYLINE: Keeley Rodgers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 242 words


BRITISH tourists in Tunisia have been advised to leave the country amid fears of
a fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The Foreign Office has warned against all but essential travel following
intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure holidaymakers can leave,
the government said.

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach massacre that claimed the lives of 30 Britons.

But despite increased security since the shootings the Government said the extra
measures did not go far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.





LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Britons to leave Tunisia amid terror attack fears

LENGTH: 302  words


BRITISH tourists in Tunisia have been advised to leave the country amid fears of
a fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The Foreign Office has warned against all but essential travel following
intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure holidaymakers can leave,
the government said.

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach massacre that claimed the lives of 30 Britons.

But despite increased security since the shootings the Government said the extra
measures did not go far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the Government did not have intelligence
about any specific threat.

He told the BBC: "While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or
imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture
has developed considerably leading us to the view that a further terrorist
attack is highly likely."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Britons to leave Tunisia amid terror attack fears

BYLINE: Paul Wilson

LENGTH: 824  words


All British nationals in Tunisia have been told by the UK government to leave
the country because another terrorist attack is "highly likely" following last
month's beach massacre.

Travel firms are pulling out of Tunisia as a holiday destination after the
Foreign  Office last night warned against all but essential travel there.

Thomson and First Choice immediately cancelled all outbound flights for the
summer season running up to and including 31 October following last night's
announcement.

Thirty Britons, including four Scots, were among 38 tourists who were killed in
the terror attack at the resort of Sousse last month.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) estimates 2,500 to 3,000 UK tourists
are in Tunisia and a few hundred British residents.

The FCO said tour operators were arranging extra flights back to the UK because
- despite stepped-up security measures by Tunisian authorities - there is not
"adequate protection for British tourists".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "While we do not have any information
suggesting a specific or imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach attack on 26 June but despite the increased security since the shootings,
the government said the extra measures did not go far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "On balance, we do not
believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate protection for British
tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have therefore changed our travel
advice ­accordingly."

A spokesman for Thomson and First Choice said that they did not have any
customers in the country but "as a precautionary measure we have taken the
decision to repatriate all British Thomson and First Choice staff currently
working in Tunisia within the next 24 hours".

All 30 of the Britons killed in the massacre were Thomson and First Choice
customers.

Thomas Cook UK & Ireland also cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up to 31
October. A spokesman said it will be bringing all of its customers back to the
UK "as soon as we can".

The spokesman added: "The safety and well-being of our customers is our primary
concern. As always, we have been closely following the advice from the FCO and
local authorities to monitor the situation in Tunisia.

"In response to the recent change in FCO advice, we have taken this decision to
bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we can using
third-party carriers and on our ten scheduled flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our specialist assistance teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

Michelle Ayres, a British tourist staying at the Riadh Palms Hotel in Sousse,
said she had not been given any information.

She said: "Everything we have heard is only what we have read online.

"There's no rep here, so it is just literally all British people together,
discussing what we have all read on our own operators' websites."

She added: "Everyone's view, not just myself, is if us Britons are at risk, why
put us all on the same buses to remove us from the hotels? Surely that is the
risk that they want. We all feel perfectly safe within the hotel. They have been
amazing."

Malcolm Tarling, of the Association of British Insurers, suggested that anyone
who has booked to go there should speak to their tour operator or travel agent
and perhaps make alternative arrangements.

He said: "Some, but not all, travel policies may cover cancellation due to
government advice not to travel. Tour operators, travel agents and air carriers
should be able to arrange return to the UK for people currently there on
holiday."

Monarch Airlines said it is arranging to repatriate all customers in resorts
"back to the UK as soon as possible" in response to the changed advice. Flights
have been organised to take them out of Tunisia by this weekend.

A spokesman said the airline is cancelling all flights to Enfidha for the rest
of the summer season with "immediate effect".

All customers who have already booked to travel there will get a full refund or
credit, or may be able to change their ­destination.

Customers who booked through a travel agent or tour operator should contact them
for advice as soon as possible.

Jet2.com and Jet2holidays said all of its travellers are out of Tunisia and that
it has no plans to return there this season.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Tamworth Herald Series

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

'Our family felt abandoned in the wake of terror attack' says grieving son

BYLINE: Chris Philpotts; News reporter

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6-7

LENGTH: 354  words


CONOR Fulford, son of murdered mum Sue Davey, has hit out at a British
Government that he believes 'abandoned' his family in their hour of need.

Conor watched on in horror as the worldwide media reported a lone gunman had
shot dead 30 British people on holiday in Tunisia.

Knowing his mum was visiting the country the 23-year-old began to panic, but he
admitted no help was forthcoming.

Conor   said: "Where was the help when we needed it the most? Where was the
people coming to tell us if our mum was ok or not?

"I am not lying, we had to do all the hard work ourselves. Me, my sisters.
No-one from the Government helped.

"The only people who did were the public and the media - it should not be like
that."

Conor  started a social media campaign to locate his mum, and got messages from
the across the globe supporting his action.

The grieving son, who flew back to the UK from America on Monday, where he was
working as a football coach, said no such messages came from people in authority
who could have helped.

He said: "I was after my mum, they were the people who could have helped the
most. I had people retweeting me and all that, and that was great. But that was
not going to find my mum at the end of the day. The Government could have helped
me do that.

"But when I phoned the Foreign Office I was told she was 'low priority'. Low
priority - what a thing to tell someone whose mum is missing."

Many have called for Prime Minister David Cameron to contact the families of the
victims from the Tunisian attack.

Conor  said it was too late now and the damage had been done.

He said: "We needed to hear from them then, not now. That is when we needed the
help.

"As it is we have heard nothing. Thirty families lost loved ones over there. How
hard can it be for someone from the Government to write 30 letters? Or make 30
phone-calls?

"We have had none of that. It is a joke when you think about it as it was such a
big thing, such a terrible thing to happen. I am a positive person by nature, I
have my mum to thank for that.

"But as positive as I am, I can see no good way to spin the way we have been
treated by our own Government."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Conor Fulford: "I am a positive person by nature, I have my mum to
thank for that."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 9, 2015 Thursday 7:41 PM GMT

Britons told to leave Tunisia amid fears of a fresh terror attack;
Foreign Office has changed its travel advice for Tunisia warning against all but
essential travel amid fears gunman Selfeddine Rezgui's cell could be ready to
strike again

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor video source UK POOL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 806 words


Britons have been told to leave Tunisia as soon as possible amid fears it is
"highly likely" they will be targeted in a fresh terror attack.

The Foreign Office changed its travel advice for the country warning against all
but essential travel.

Holiday operators were urgently arranging additional flights to bring Britons
currently travelling in the country home, the FCO said.

· Everything we know so far about the British victims · Tunisia appeals for
information on two suspected accomplices

There are up to 3,000 Britons currently in Tunisia, it is understood, and they
have been told to contact their tour operator or airline to plan their return.

The change came two weeks after Isil-backed gunman Selfeddine Rezgui slaughtered
38 people in the beach town of Sousse, including 30 Britons.

Foreign Office sources said it had become apparent that Rezgui was not working
alone and his cell had clearly targeted British nationals.

It is also feared the Tunisian authorities cannot adequately protect tourists
from another attack.

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the
Bardo museum earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they
want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to this
attack.

"While we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those
measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively protect tourists from
the terrorist threat.

"Taking all these factors together we judge it is right and prudent to make this
change. We have not taken this decision lightly but our first priority will
always be the safety of our citizens.

"In the days and weeks ahead, we will continue to keep the situation under close
review and to work with the Tunisians to further understand the threat and to
strengthen their security response to it."

It came as it emerged that RAF bombers have killed more than 240 Isil terrorists
in Iraq since raids began in October 2014,

The success of the raids is likely to increase calls for Britain to intervene in
Syria, which is expected to be put to a vote in Parliament later this year.

Michael Fallon, the Defence Secretary, said that the raids are justified because
Isil is an "evil" organisation which murders innocent civilians and poses a
serious threat to Britain.

He said: "ISIL is an evil and barbaric organisation. It is murdering innocent
civilians on a huge scale in the Middle East and it poses an extremely serious
terrorist threat to our country. That's why the action our armed forces are
taking to combat it is so important."

On its website, the FCO said the advice had been changed due to the "evolving
security situation...reinforcing our view that a further terrorist attack is
highly likely".

The advice said that "on balance" there was no adequate protection in place in
Tunisia for British tourists.

It added: "If you're in Tunisia and you don't have an essential need to remain
you should leave by commercial means.

"Tour operators are arranging additional flights and will be organising
departures for their customers."

Those travelling independently need to make their own arrangements, it said.

Those who need help are told to contact the British embassy in Tunis.

It said: "Further terrorist attacks are highly likely, including in tourist
resorts, and by individuals unknown to the authorities whose actions may be
inspired by terrorist groups via social media.

"You should be especially vigilant at this time and follow the advice of the
Tunisian security authorities and your tour operator, if you have one."

The Foreign Office had faced questions over why it had not changed its travel
advice in the immediate aftermath of the Sousse atrocity.

· Tunisia building wall to prevent travel to Libyan jihad camps

Sources said the decision was taken after a series of arrests in the
investigation in Tunisia made it clear it was not a lone wolf attack and a
larger group was behind it.

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) urged people due to travel to
Tunisia to contact the company they booked through.

It said: "For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to
Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.
Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Western Gazette

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

'I was ready to die' - author tells of terror attack by cows

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 520  words


A POPULAR children's author has told how she was "ready to die" as she was
attacked by a herd of cows.

Babette Cole, 64, who until recently lived in Sherborne, curled into a foetal
position as the rampaging animals 'played football' with her and left her
bloody, bruised and semi-conscious.

Ms Cole, famous for her illustrated children's books including Princess
Smartypants and Doctor Dog, was saved by a woman who went to her aid.

She said she owed her life to Rachel Hobbs who frightened away the cows and
saved her in a field near Lewdown, Devon,  where she moved after selling her
28-acre stud farm at Sherborne.

The 44-year-old rescuer,  who carried the author to safety while her husband
Andy called 999, said the scene was "like a horror movie".

The author was flown by air ambulance to Derriford Hospital in Plymouth, where
she spent a week. The keen rider who hunted with the Blackmore and Sparkford
Vale Hunt was treated for fractured ribs, a fractured shoulder and had stitches
to her ear and face.

Ms Cole, who was walking her dogs at the time of the attack, said: "The cows
appeared from nowhere and they went for me, they were going for my two terriers.

"They were obviously defending their babies. One of them ran at me and tossed me
right up in the air, they were playing football with me."

During the terrifying attack, the writer landed on the backs of the other cows
and then fell under their hooves. She added: "They then proceeded to try and
kill me. It was like a forest of legs and feet that were trampling me and I
couldn't get out or do anything.  I  was ready to die."

The next she knew, though, was she was being hauled from the field by her
rescuer.

Ms Hobbs, from Horsebridge, Devon, said: "It was a miracle we were there. We had
gone to view the property for sale next door and afterwards we went to look at
the land. Something made us go and have a look over the gate.

"The next thing we knew this dog came hurtling towards us and all the cows were
charging around.  I climbed over the gate and what was there was really like
something in a horror movie.

"This woman was curled up, half of her clothes were ripped off, with blood
coming from every orifice, with hoof prints all over her back."

The writer who started her career working on the BBC and is known for riding
sidesaddle,    is now being looked after by friends. She added: "Rachel was so
brave. She pulled me out and she and her husband got me into a barn and called
the ambulance. I managed to contact her when I came out of hospital and said
'thank you for saving my life'.

"I want to warn people not to go into fields with cows in them, particularly
when they have calves.

"It was pretty scary. Being a horsey lady, I have endured a lot of blows in my
time, but the scary thing about this is that I couldn't go anywhere.  I really
thought I was going to die."

On average around one person dies every year due to cattle attacks and around 63
people are injured.

Ms Cole is no stranger to 999 dramas and said she had to call the ambulance
three times within weeks of moving because she, a builder, and a groom  were
injured in accidents.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: hospital care: Babette Cole likened being attacked by cattle as being
kicked around like a football. She was treated for fractured ribs, a fractured
shoulder and had stitches to her ear and face.
well known: Ms Cole is famous for her illustrated children's books including
Princess Smartypants and Doctor Dog. She is currently being cared for by friends
while she recovers.
'horror movie': Babette Cole's body bruises after being trampled.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                       July 10, 2015 Friday 11:03 AM GMT

Britons Urged To Leave Tunisia As Terrorist Attack "highly Likely"

LENGTH: 330 words


LONDON (Alliance News) - UK Foreign Office has urged all British nationals in
Tunisia to leave the country, warning "further terrorist attack is highly
likely."

The warning comes two weeks after an attack by Islamic State terrorists at a
popular tourist resort in Tunisia killed 38 foreign holidaymakers, mostly
Britons.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said Thursday that since the attack in
Sousse, it has been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate
the attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia. "Although we
have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including putting in
place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat picture has
developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further terrorist attack is
highly likely," according to the Foreign Office. '"We do not believe the
mitigation measures in place provide adequate protection for British tourists in
Tunisia at the present time and we have therefore changed our travel advice
accordingly," it added.

FCO advised British citizens against all travel to the Chaambi Mountain National
Park area; the Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and
Sakiet Sidi Youssef; the militarized zone south of, but not including, the towns
of El Borma and Dhehiba; and within 5 kilometers of the Libya border area from
north of Dhehiba up to but not including the Ras Ajdir border crossing.

The FCO advised against all but essential travel to the rest of Tunisia.

It warned that further terrorist attacks are highly likely, including in tourist
resorts, and by individuals unknown to the authorities whose actions may be
inspired by terrorist groups via social media.

On 8 July the Tunisian Prime Minister said that further attacks are likely. The
Tunisian authorities have increased their security measures but have also
acknowledged the limitations in their ability to counter the current terrorist
threat.

Copyright RTT News/dpa-AFX

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Somali militants planning Kenyan terror attack during Obama visit - MPs

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report by Stephen Letoo entitled " MPs predict terror attack during
Obama visit" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 10
July

Al Shabab is plotting to embarrass the government during US President Barack
Obama's visit, a National Assembly committee said yesterday.

Committee on Administration and National Security chairman Asman Kamama urged
Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett and Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph
Nkaissery to alert security agencies.

The committee called for intensified intelligence gathering before, during and
after Obama's visit.

The committee also called for the profiling of soft spots to help avert terror
attacks.

"The police have done it before. They must ensure all the areas of easy target
are manned enough and heavy security deployment done," Kamama said.

MPs Tim Wanyonyi, Patrick Ntutu, Wanjiku Muhia and Joseph Ndiege called for
intensified patrols.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 10 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Three civilians killed in new "terrorist" attack in Syria's Aleppo

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Terrorists attacked al-Ramouseh neighborhood in Aleppo city with rockets on
Thursday, leaving civilian casualties.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that terrorists positioned in
al-Rashidin neighborhood fired rockets that fell in the southwestern part of
al-Ramouseh, killing three civilians.

Seven others were reported injured in the attack, who were taken to al-Jami'eh
(university) Hospital to receive treatment.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0620 gmt 10 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 8:46 AM GMT

Holidays to Tunisia are axed amid terror attack fears

BYLINE: By Sam Lister

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 196 words


Holiday firms are pulling out of Tunisia after the British Government warned
against all but essential travel there amid fears of a fresh terror attack.

The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised British tourists to leave
the country following intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Thomson and First Choice immediately cancelled all outbound flights to Tunisia
for the summer season, up to and including October 31.

The firm does not currently have any customers in Tunisia but a spokesman said:
"As a precautionary measure we have taken the decision to repatriate all British
Thomson and First Choice staff currently working in Tunisia within the next 24
hours."

All 30 of the Britons who were killed in the beach massacre in Sousse were
Thomson and First Choice customers.

Thomas Cook UK & Ireland cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up to the same
date. .

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond told the BBC: "While we do not have any
information suggesting a specific or imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse
the intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 8:20 AM GMT

Tunisia condemns British call for tourists to leave immediately;
UK tourists urged to leave Tunisia by Foreign Office following intelligence a
terrorist attack is highly likely

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 633 words


The British government is playing into the hands of terrorists by evacuating
thousands of Britons from Tunisia, the country's ambassador has warned.

The Foreign Office urged UK tourists to leave immediately and warned against all
but essential travel to the country following intelligence a terrorist attack is
"highly likely".

It comes a fortnight after 30 Britons were among 38 tourists killed on the beach
in Sousse by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui. Terror group Islamic State claimed
responsibility for the attack.

The new advice is another hammer blow for the Tunisian tourist industry and has
sparked fears it could play into the hands of extremists in the North African
country

Nabil Ammar, Tunisian ambassador to the UK, told BBC Two's Newsnight: "This is
what the terrorists want.

"By damaging the tourism, by having foreigners leaving the country, they damage
the whole sector and put so many people out of work and on the streets.

"Hotels have to close and this is an important industry.

"One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope. It is not the only motor of it
but it is one of the very important origins."

Extra flights have been laid on to evacuate up to 3,000 British package
holidaymakers and 300 independent travellers believed to be in Tunisia.

Tourists will begin to be flown out of the country this morning.

The Sousse beach massacre came just months after 22 people, mostly tourists,
were killed at the National Bardo Museum outside Tunis in March.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

Following the Government's warning, Thomson and First Choice immediately
cancelled all flights to Tunisia for the summer season.

They added that "as a precautionary measure we have taken the decision to
repatriate all British Thomson and First Choice staff currently working in
Tunisia within the next 24 hours".

Thomas Cook, which cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up to October 31,
said it is putting on an extra flight today to bring its customers back to the
UK.

The returning holidaymakers will touch down in Manchester as some of the
funerals of the Britons killed in Sousse take place.

Family and friends of Jim and Ann McQuire, of Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire,
will say their final farewells at a service at Abronhill church in their home
town this afternoon.

Tunisia has announced plans to build a barrier along the border with Libya -
including fencing, a sand wall, trenches and surveillance posts - to keep out
extremists following recent terror attacks.

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the Foreign
Office said.

A Thomas Cook spokesman said: "The safety and well-being of our customers is our
primary concern.

"In response to the recent change in FCO (Foreign and Commonwealth Office)
advice we have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to
the UK as soon as we can using third party carriers and on our ten scheduled
flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our specialist assistance teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort."

Monarch Airlines said it is arranging to repatriate all customers in resorts
"back to the UK as soon as possible". Flights have been organised to take them
out of Tunisia by this weekend.

The airline is cancelling all flights to Enfidha in Tunisia for the rest of the
summer season with "immediate effect".

All customers who have already booked to travel there will get a full refund or
credit or they may be able to change their destination.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Bolton holidaymakers in Tunisia urged to leave amid warnings terrorist attack
'highly likely'

BYLINE: Tui Benjamin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


BOLTON holidaymakers in Tunisia are being urged to leave the country immediately
after the Foreign Office warned a further terrorist attack is "highly likely".

The Government is advising against all but essential travel to Tunisia and
holiday companies are flying Britons back to the UK.

Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all future holidays to
Tunisia up to October 31 this year because of concerns for the safety of
customers.

Thirty Britons were among 38 tourists killed in on a beach in Sousse on 26 June
by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui. Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility
for the attack.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

There are believed to be up to 3,000 British package holidaymakers and 300
independent travellers currently in Tunisia.

Extra flights have been laid on to bring tourists back to the UK - with the
first holidaymakers expected to land at Manchester Airport later today.

A spokesman for Thomas Cook said: "In response to the recent change in FCO
advice we have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to
the UK as soon as we can using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled
flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort.

Thomson and First Choice say they do not have any customers currently in Tunisia
but are repatriating British staff working in the country. But the Tunisian
ambassador said the Government is playing into the hands of the terrorists by
evacuating thousands of Britons from the country.

Nabil Ammar told Newsnight: "This is what the terrorists want.

"By damaging the tourism, by having foreigners leaving the country, they damage
the whole sector and put so many people out of work and on the streets.

"One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope."

People with friends or family currently staying at Thomas Cook resorts in
Tunisia, or who have holiday bookings to Tunisia up to October 31, should call
01733 224 536.

Have you had your holiday cut short because of the warning? Are you working out
in Tunisia? Contact the Bolton News on 01204 537 258 or email
tui.benjamin@theboltonnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Bolton holidaymakers in Tunisia urged to leave amid warnings terrorist attack
'highly likely'

BYLINE: Tui Benjamin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 422 words


BOLTON holidaymakers in Tunisia are being urged to leave the country immediately
after the Foreign Office warned a further terrorist attack is "highly likely".

The Government is advising against all but essential travel to Tunisia and
holiday companies are flying Britons back to the UK.

Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all future holidays to
Tunisia up to October 31 this year because of concerns for the safety of
customers.

Thirty Britons were among 38 tourists killed on a beach in Sousse on 26 June by
gunman Seifeddine Rezgui. Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for
the attack.

Bolton holidaymaker Jodie Vaudrey is currently in Tunisia, and posted on the
Bolton News Facebook page to say she was not worried about the risk of a
terrorist attack. She said: "I am here now and never felt so safe. Where in the
world is safe at the moment? It can happen anywhere in the world. Are Thomas
Cook, Thomson and First Choice going to stop flights to all the high risk places
including Europe?"

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

There are believed to be up to 3,000 British package holidaymakers and 300
independent travellers currently in Tunisia.

Extra flights have been laid on to bring tourists back to the UK - with the
first holidaymakers expected to land at Manchester Airport last night.

A spokesman for Thomas Cook said: "In response to the recent change in FCO
advice we have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to
the UK as soon as we can using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled
flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort."

Thomson and First Choice say they do not have any customers currently in Tunisia
but are repatriating British staff working in the country. But the Tunisian
ambassador said the Government is playing into the hands of the terrorists by
evacuating thousands of Britons from the country.

People with friends or family currently staying at Thomas Cook resorts in
Tunisia, or who have holiday bookings to Tunisia up to October 31, should call
01733 224 536.

Have you had your holiday cut short because of the warning? Contact the Bolton
News on 01204 537270 or email newsdesk@theboltonnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       July 10, 2015 Friday 12:28 PM GMT

Fear of terrorist attack leads Department of Foreign Affairs to discourage all
non-essential travel to Tunisia

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


The Department of Foreign Affairs is advising Irish tourists against all
essential travel to Tunisia, amid warnings another terrorist attack is highly
likely.

The Department have issued the second-highest warning category in their
five-point scale for travel advice.

In a statement, Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan has said that they
are encouraging any Irish visitors to Tunisia to review whether their presence
there is essential, and if it is not, to leave the country.

However he says the department believes there are relatively few Irish visitors
currently in Tunisia, after the decision by travel companies to discontinue
direct flights from Dublin to Monastir earlier this month.

The terrorist attack at Sousse claimed 35 victims, including three Irish
citizens.

The warning comes almost two weeks after the attack, as concerns mount that
another attack could be imminent.

Yesterday, the UK urged all British Citizens in Tunisia to leave as soon as
possible and two tour operators have decided to pull their staff from the
country.

The country relies heavily on tourism, and the damage that the attack will
likely cause the economy may arguably provide fertile ground for cultivating
further Islamic extremism, as an increasingly disaffected, disenfranchised youth
becomes frustrated.

The country's porous borders with Algeria have raised some local concerns about
Islamic extremist influence in the popular tourist destination.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 8:20 PM GMT

Funeral held for 'devoted' couple killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 318 words


HUNDREDS of mourners turned out to say farewell to a "devoted" couple killed in
the terror attack in Tunisia.

Jim and Ann McQuire were among the 38 people who were killed when gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on holidaymakers on a beach in the resort of
Sousse two weeks ago.

The funeral service was held in their home town of Cumbernauld, North
Lanakshire.

Some 400 mourners filled Abronhill Parish Church, where Mr and Mrs McQuire had
been active members.

Stuart McQuire

Mrs McQuire, 64, sang and played guitar as a member of the church, while her
67-year-old husband was a church elder.

Their son Stuart said his parents had "lived to enjoy life".

In a family statement, he said: "They were a couple devoted to each other and
who lived to enjoy life.

"They spent their lives contributing so much to the community.

"Through their many interests they made friends and help many causes within and
out with the church."

The service was held as thousands of Brits tried to evacuate from the terror-hit
country.

The Foreign Office has put a blanket ban on anyone hoping to jet out of the
popular holiday spot.

It also urged thousands of tourists out there to pack up and leave immediately
with another potential terror attack "highly likely".

Two weeks ago to the day 30 Brits were shot dead by ISIS gunman Rezgui as they
sunbathed on the beach.

Chilling new footage has also emerged of Rezgui                      walking
along the beach with a Kalashnikov rifle - just moments after opening fire on
innocent tourists.

Related articles 'Fight with us': Brave soldiers dare gobby Russell Brand to
join ISIS war Tunisia gunman was 'framed and never shot gun', mum claims Holiday
Brits return home in Tunisia terror evacuation - but they're not happy WATCH:
Chilling footage emerges of Tunisian gunman walking along beach swinging AK47

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 4:08 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Family of Cumbernauld couple say they will be 'sorely
missed' as funeral takes place;
THE only son of Jim and Ann McQuire has told how they were 'devoted to each
other' as their family and friends filled Abronhill church in their hometown for
their funeral service.

BYLINE: By Katrine Bussey

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 201 words


THE family of a British couple killed in the Tunisia terror attack said they
would be "sorely missed" as their funeral service began.

Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld , North Lanarkshire, were among 38 people
killed by a gunman in the holiday resort of Sousse on Friday June 26 . Thirty of
the victims were British.

Family and friends filled Abronhill church in their home town for the funeral
service.

The couple had been active members of the church, where Mrs McQuire, 64, sang
and played guitar and Mr McQuire, 67, was captain of the 5th Cumbernauld Boys'
Brigade company for many years.

Their only son Stuart McQuire said they would be "sorely missed".

In a family statement released by Police Scotland, he said: "They were a couple
devoted to each other and who lived to enjoy life.

"They spent their lives contributing so much to the community. Through their
many interests they made many friends and helped many causes within and out with
the church.

"On behalf of myself and the family, I would like to thank everyone for their
kind words, cards and messages.

"It is overwhelming the support we have had and that so many people have been
touched by these tragic circumstances."

Quick Quiz: News 10/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 3:40 PM GMT

Tourists face scramble to rearrange holidays after British Government impose
Tunisia travel ban;
AFTER the terrorist attacks in Tunisia two weeks ago, the Government have
imposed a travel ban and tourists are facing a last-minute scramble to rearrange
their trips.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 382 words


BRITISH tourists who have booked holidays to Tunisia face a last-minute scramble
to rearrange their trips.

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) warned that holiday companies
will not send Britons to the country after the Government imposed a travel ban
in the wake of terror attacks.

But it said the vast majority of Britons have booked a package holiday and will
be offered alternative destinations or a full refund by their tour operator.

Abta spokeswoman Gillian Edwards said thousands have already flown back to the
UK or scrapped plans to visit Tunisia following the Sousse beach massacre a
fortnight ago.

She said: "We estimate there are around 3,000 British tourists out in Tunisia at
the moment - that is dramatically lower than you would normally expect for this
time of year because of the incident.

"Normally it would be around 20,000 to 25,000 British holidaymakers out there.

"Our advice to people who are out there is to contact their travel company to
find out about their options and confirm their flights home. The tour operators
are aiming to get everyone home by the end of Sunday.

"In Tunisia around 90% of the holidays are package holidays, the majority of
people are travelling with a tour operator. Those people who have travelled out
there independently, they will need to contact their airline to find out what
their options are."

Ms Edwards said it is very unusual for the Foreign Office to take such a drastic
step, and she thought the vast majority of British tourists will heed the advice
and head home, but a "small minority" who know the country very well might stay.

She said: "For the Foreign Office to issue this kind of travel ban is highly
unusual, particularly for a very popular tourist destination.

"The Foreign Office would have taken a huge amount of information into
consideration that has come to light since the attacks, they won't make this
decision lightly, so it is a very unusual situation to do this."

Britons are among the biggest customers of Tunisia's tourist industry, and the
travel warning will seriously damage trade, she warned.

She said: "I think in the short term it is going to have a very serious impact
on tourism. British holidaymakers are one of the main groups of holidaymakers to
travel out to Tunisia."

Quick Quiz: News 10/07/2015

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              July 10, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GET OUT NOW;
If you are in Tunisia.. ; SECOND TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK 'HIGHLY LIKELY' ; Holiday
firms evacuate resorts ; as Government flash warning ; GET OUT NOW EMERGENCY
AIRLIFT FOR 3000 BRITONS GET OUT NOW EMERGENCY AIRLIFT FOR 3000 BRITONS

BYLINE: BEN GLAZE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 762 words


THOUSANDS of Britons were last night told to flee Tunisia amid fears of another
terror attack.

Tour operators laid on emergency airlifts for their customers and cancelled
holidays to the country.

The UK Government warned that another attack was "highly likely".

There are thought to be 3000 UK tourists in Tunisia.

The Foreign Office said: "If you're in Tunisia and you TURN TO PAGE 4 FROM PAGE
ONE don't have an essential need to remain, you should leave by commercial
means."

First Choice and Thomson are moving their staff out of the country.

The warning came two weeks after 30 Britons, including four Scots, were shot
dead by an Islamic extremist in the resort of Sousse.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse, the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the
Bardo museum earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they
want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to this
attack.

"While we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those
measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively protect tourists from
the terrorist threat.

"Taking all these factors together, we judge it is right and prudent to make
this change. We have not taken this decision lightly, but our first priority
will always be the safety of our citizens."

Holiday firms will fly customers out of Tunisia today and tomorrow.

Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice last night cancelled all holidays to the
north African country until the end of October.

We advise guests Tunisia to return on these flights THOMAS Hammond added: "In
the days and weeks ahead, we will continue to keep the situation under close
review and to work with the Tunisians to further understand the threat and to
strengthen their security response to it."

The Foreign Office said Britons on Tunisian package holidays should speak to
their tour reps.

About 300 people who travelled to the country independently should make their
own arrangements to leave.

Thomas Cook said holidaymakers who come home earlier than planned will receive a
refund for days they missed.

Those due to fly to Tunisia will be offered a refund or the chance to switch to
another destination.

The company added: "The safety and wellbeing of our customers is our primary
concern. As always, we have been closely following the advice from the Foreign
Office and local authorities to monitor the situation in Tunisia.

strongly our in "In response to the recent change in Foreign Office advice, we
have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as
soon as we can using third-party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over
the weekend.

COOK "Thomas Cook are strongly advising our guests in the country to return on
these flights.

"We are committed to doing everything we can to support our guests in Tunisia at
this time and will work to bring them back to the UK safely and as soon as
possible."

Tui Travel, which includes Thomson and First Choice, said: "Thomson and First
Choice have cancelled all our outbound flights to Tunisia for the summer season,
which is up to and including October 31.

"Thomson and First Choice have no customers currently in Tunisia, but as a
precautionary measure, we have taken the decision to repatriate all British
Thomson and First Choice staff working in Tunisia within the next 24 hours.

"Customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including October 31 will be given
the opportunity to amend their holiday free of charge to any of our destinations
on sale, or receive a refund."

The Association of British Travel Agents said: "Those who have travelled
independently are advised to follow Foreign Office advice and consider if it is
essential to stay in Tunisia.

"For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to Tunisia at
this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies. If you have
booked a package, you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, who had links to terror group Islamic State, shot
dead a total of 38 people on the beach in Sousse.

They included Jim McQuire, 67, and wife Ann, 64, from Cumbernauld, near Glasgow,
and Billy Graham, 51, and wife Lisa, 50, from Bankfoot, near Perth.

In March, terrorists killed 22 people at the Bardo museum in Tunisian capital
Tunis.

We strongly advise our guests in Tunisia to return on these flights THOMAS COOK

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH ALERT A masked Tunisian soldier patrols massacre beachTeaRS After
the bloodbath in SousseVICTIMS Billy Graham booked holiday for Lisa's 50th
birthdayLATE BREAK Ann and Jim McQuire booked trip at last minuteHEARTBREAKING
Lisa Graham's body arrives back in Britain on RAF planeMANIAC Islamic terror
group IS posted this sinister picture of Rezgui on Twitter after the beach
massacreKILLING SPREE Gunman Rezgui on the beach in Sousse where he posed as a
tourist before shooting dead 38 holidaymakers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 1:35 PM GMT

Queen at risk of TERROR ATTACK due to Government sale of historic buildings,
warn Lords

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 603 words


THE sale of two landmark buildings just yards from Buckingham Palace to foreign
investors poses a grave danger to the Queen's security, the Government has been
warned.

GETTY

The Queen's main residence at Buckingham Palace is just a few hundred yards away
from Admiralty Arch

Admiralty Arch and the Old War Office in London have been flogged off to private
buyers in a bid to plug gaping holes in the public finances.

But senior politicians, including a former Home Secretary, have accused
ministers of risking the safety of Her Majesty, the Royal Family and members of
the public for the sake of £200million.

Fears centre on the possibility of a terror attack during one of the many
processions and ceremonies thant take place along Whitehall and the Mall.

They include the State Procession route between Buckingham Palace and the Palace
of Westminster.

GETTY

Admiralty Arch is set to become a five-star hotel

Terrorists could use the buildings to target the Royal Family or crowds of
people that swell to their thousands during popular events, it is feared.

Minsters are now being urged to scrap the sale and keep the properties leased to
Government departments instead.

Lord Reid, who held a number of cabinet posts including Home Secretary in
2006-07, insisted it was the Government's responsibility to put national
security above tackling the deficit.

Speaking during a House of Lords debate, he said: "If the cost of reducing the
deficit by a couple of hundred million pounds is to put our national security -
not to mention the monarch - at risk, it is not a price worth paying."

And Lord Foulkes said the sale would cause "major security risks".

"Does the noble Lord really think that selling off the Old War Office building,
just up the road from the Cenotaph, to a private foreign company for use as a
hotel and private apartments will not cause major security risks? Of course it
will," the Labour peer said.

"There will be Remembrance Day services and the Queen coming to open Parliament;
it is extremely dangerous. Surely he must think again."

CROWN COPYRIGHT

The Old War Office was responsible for the administration of the British Army
until 1964

Crossbench peer Lord Lisvane highlighted the underground tunnels that many
historic buildings have, as he cited the recent raid of safety deposit boxes in
London's Hatton Garden.

He said: "Ignore the siren voices which suggest that security can be assured
simply by sealing tunnels.

"It cannot. Ask anybody in Hatton Garden."

IRA terrorists have in the past used Whitehall to launch a mortar attack on
Downing Street, and when US President George Bush visited London, the entire
area was cordoned off.

Allowing private tenants access to the Old War Office or Admiralty Arch could
give them access to state events and the high-profile targets in attendance.

Related articles  Squatters occupy building near Buckingham Palace to 'stick
two...  Queen 'could be assassinated like JFK' as Government makes quick...

The Old War Office, across the road to the Ministry of Defence and Downing
Street, was also sold off for apartments and a hotel in 2013 to Indian
billionaires, in a deal estimated to be worth £300m.

Admiralty Arch, at the opposite end of the Mall to Buckingham Palace, was leased
for £60m in 2013 and will be turned into a 100-bedroom five-star hotel.

Defending the sale, Cabinet Office minister, Lord Bridges, argued the freeholds
were still owned by the G

overnment and were overseen by the security and intelligence services and the
Metropolitan Police.

He added: "It is obviously in the hoteliers' interests to take their security
checks on their staff into consideration"

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 10, 2015 Friday 10:01 AM GMT

Parents of Tunisia terror attack gunman claim he was 'FRAMED' over Sousse beach
massacre

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 701 words


THE Tunisia gunman who brutally murdered dozens of holidaymakers on a beach in
Sousse - including 30 Britons - was "framed", his mother has claimed.

AP

Seifeddine Rezgui murdered 38 people on the beach in Tunisia

Seifeddine Rezgui killed 38 in an ISIS-inspired rampage on the popular holiday
resort last month.

But his family insist the 23-year-old was brainwashed into carrying out the
attack and believe he didn't even fire the weapon.

"They got to my son. They used him and they framed him for the crime," his
mother Radhia Manai said.

She also revealed her troubled son hugged and kissed her before saying he was
going to stay with a friend just hours before carrying out the massacre.

Describing her final moments with Rezgui, she said: "When I came back from work
I found him playing with his brother and on his laptop. They took a picture
together.

"He took a shower and changed his clothes, then he came to me and said 'Mum I'm
going to see a friend for a night and I need 10 dinars'.

"He hugged and kissed me and he left. From that moment I didn't see him."

Related articles  Russell Brand blasts Jeremy Kyle as 'a miner of people's
misery'...  Tunisia shooting survivor raises THOUSANDS for 'hero' hotel staff...

He then made the two-hour journey from Gaafour to the Mediterranean town of
Sousse before butchering tourists as they lay on sunloungers.

Ms Manai added: "The next day the police knocked at our door. We didn't have any
idea what happened.

"I thought he was with a friend in Tunis. I didn't believe it.

"Even now, I swear to God, I don't believe what happened."

"I can't imagine he could carry out such an operation? He was carrying his
weapon and was just walking. He didn't fire it. I want to know who fired and
then framed him."

SKY NEWS

The parents of Seifeddine Rezgui said they did not think their son had fired the
gun

Also speaking to Sky News, the killer's father, Abdul-Hakim Rezgui, remains
perplexed by his son's actions.

"People say he spent two years training in Libya. How could he train in Libya?
How was he able to do that? What about his university?," he said.

"I say to the tourists: God bless those who died. And God bless my son. My son
was not capable of this. Bad guys tricked him and God will give him what he
deserves."

AP

Security forces on the beach at Sousse

One of the survivors of the attack has previously described Rezgui's demeanour
during the bloodbath, saying there was "no emotion" in his face.

Matthew James, from Cardiff, said: "He looked like a postman going about his
business but instead of delivering letters he was strolling around shooting
people."

Tunisian authorities made a number of arrests in the wake of the attack,
believing Rezgui had accomplices who helped him to carry out the atrocity.

They have yet to trace or name a second killer, suggesting Rezgui acted alone.

However, several witnesses reported seeing a second - and even a third -
accomplice during the shootings.

Tourists described how a man with no t-shirt and another wearing red shorts were
also seen firing guns.

PA

Flowers on the beach near the RIU Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse, Tunisia

His parents spoke out as updated Foreign Office advice urged British tourists to
flee Tunisia immediately, warning another terror attack was "highly likely".

But Tunisia's ambassador last night hit back, saying the British Government was
playing into the hands of terrorists by evacuating thousands of Britons.

Nabil Ammar, Tunisian ambassador to the UK, told BBC Two's Newsnight: "This is
what the terrorists want.

"By damaging the tourism, by having foreigners leaving the country, they damage
the whole sector and put so many people out of work and on the streets.

"Hotels have to close and this is an important industry.

"One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope. It is not the only motor of it
but it is one of the very important origins."

Extra flights have been laid on to evacuate up to 3,000 British package
holidaymakers and 300 independent travellers believed to be in Tunisia.

Tourists will begin to be flown out of the country this morning.

Related articles  How can I tell if my holiday destination is safe? This
guideline...  RAF poised as British nationals told to LEAVE Tunisia over
fears...

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 9:55 AM GMT

RAF poised as British nationals told to LEAVE Tunisia over fears of ANOTHER
terror attack

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 727 words


FOREIGN office officials have told British people in Tunisia to leave as it
warns another terrorist attack is "highly likely".

GETTY

Tunisian police patrol Sousse beach where 30 Britons were slaughtered

The Government department has updated its website to tell those who are in the
north African country to leave "by commercial means" while tour operators
announced they were cancelling future bookings to Tunisia.

It comes less than two weeks after 30 Britons died in an ISIS-inspired terror
attack on a beach in the town of Sousse.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said the threat level has since increased
"considerably" and there is expectation of another attack. It said there was not
"adequate protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time".

It also advises those thinking of visiting the north African country only do so
for "essential travel".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the
Bardo museum earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they
want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to this
attack.

Related articles  How safe is your holiday destination? Map of tourist hotspots
with...  Tunisia terror attack: Briton who acted as human shield to protect...

"While we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those
measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively protect tourists from
the terrorist threat."

Mr Hammond added these factors had contributed to the change in advice.

He said: "We have not taken this decision lightly but our first priority will
always be the safety of our citizens.

"In the days and weeks ahead, we will continue to keep the situation under close
review and to work with the Tunisians to further understand the threat and to
strengthen their security response to it."

A FCO spokeswoman said the embassy was remaining open in Tunisia and government
staff are working in Britain to assist those who need help and advice.

She said there are currently up to 3,000 British holidaymakers in the country.

Tour operators are arranging extra flights to ensure travellers can leave, the
Government said.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Is this the SECOND killer in Sousse
beach massacre? Holiday fears for Brits as Tunisia president admits country is
on brink of collapse How can I tell if my holiday destination is safe? This
guideline helps you decide

FCO

Brits have been told to avoid all parts of Tunisia unless travelling is
absolutely necessary

Thomas Cook has revealed it has cancelled all future Tunisia bookings up until
the end of October in light of the Mr Hammond's decision.

It was also sending teams to north Africa to help people back.

A spokeswoman said: "In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have
taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as
we can using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the
weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights.

"We are also sending our Specialist Assistance Teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort."

Those who have friends of family in the country can call Thomas Cook on 01733
224 536.

TUI, which owns Thomson and First Choice, said it had no customers currently in
Tunisia but said it was working to bring back staff in the region "within the
next 24 hours".

It is also cancelling travel to the country until October 31.

Monarch Airlines said it was in the process of bringing all customers back to
the UK. It is also cancelling all flights to the Tunisian airport of Einfidha
for the rest of the summer season.

Earlier this week, Jet2.com and Jet2holidays stopped selling flights and
holidays to Tunisia for the remainder of 2015 and summer 2016.

Jet2.com customers' flight bookings will be automatically cancelled and
refunded.

A total of 38 tourists were killed in the most recent terror attack.

The UK Government warning came just hours after the Tunisian president warned
the country was on the bring of collapse.

Beji Caid Essebi declared a state of emergency and said there was a "continued
threat".

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Tunisian holidaymakers fly home after further 'terror' attack warnings

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; International News

LENGTH: 134 words


Thousands of British holidaymakers are expected to be flown home from Tunisia
starting today and over the next 48 hours following warnings from the UK Foreign
Office that another terrorist attack in the country is 'highly likely'. The
Association of British Travel Agents says its members are aiming to bring
customers home in the next 48 hours. Tour operators Thomas Cook, Thomson and
First Choice have cancelled all bookings to Tunisia up until 31 Oct. The
warnings come after 30 Britons were killed when Islamist gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui massacred tourists on a Sousse beach last month.
 Today the funeral of two victims of the attack - Jim and Anne McQuire, is held
in their home town of Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire

Event Start Date: 2015-07-10

Event End Date: 2015-07-10

Event URL: https://www.gov.uk/fco

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Funerals for Scottish couple who died in Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 97 words


Funerals held at Perth Crematorium for Billy and Lisa Graham - two of the
victims of last month's Tunisian terror attack which killed 30 British tourists
and eight others after a gunman linked to the Islamic State group (IS, formerly
known as ISIS) opened fire on a beach full of holidaymakers. The couple from
Bankfoot, near Perth, were in Tunisia to celebrate Lisa's 50th birthday.
 Funeral for fellow Scottish victims Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld in
North Lanarkshire, took place yesterday

Event Start Date: 2015-07-11

Event End Date: 2015-07-11

Event URL: http://www.pkc.gov.uk/

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Tourists urged to leave Tunisia amid fears of further terrorist attack

BYLINE: Jody Harrison

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words


BRITISH tourists have been advised to leave Tunisia immediately amid fears of a
fresh terror attack following the atrocity in Sousse.

The Foreign Office has warned against all but essential travel following
intelligence that a terrorist attack is "highly likely", adding that
holidaymakers currently in the country should leave as soon as possible. Tour
operators are arranging extra flights to ensure Britons can leave, and are in
the process of bringing their staff home.

UK authorities have been working with their Tunisian counterparts since the
beach massacre that claimed the lives of 30 Britons. However, despite increased
security since the shootings, the Government said the extra measures did not go
far enough.

In updated travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse,
we have been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the
attack and the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "While we do not have any information
suggesting a specific or imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

The Association of British Travel Agents urged people due to travel to Tunisia
to contact the company they booked through. It said: "For anyone due to travel,
you should be aware that travelling out to Tunisia at this time is likely to
invalidate your travel insurance policies. Most insurance policies will still
provide cover for travellers in a country at the time of Foreign Office advice
change."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 5:14 PM GMT

Tunisia attacks: Everything you need to know about the Foreign Office advice;
Another terrorist attack in the country has been deemed 'highly likely' by the
Foreign Office

BYLINE: Louis Doré

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 484 words


The Foreign Office has announced that Tunisia is considered too dangerous for
British holidaymakers, warning that another terrorist attack in the country is
"highly likely".

Emergency aircraft have been sent to collect tourists currently in the north
African country.

30 Britons were killed in an attack in the popular resort of Sousse on 26 June
by Seifeddine Rezgui, 23.

On 4 July the Tunisian government announced it was reinstating the state of
emergency previously lifted in 2014.

Between 2,500 and 3,000 British package holidaymakers are believed to be in
Tunisia, as well as about 300 independent travellers.

Q: I'm currently in Tunisia, should I remain in the country?

Holidaymakers with a tour operator have been advised to contact them to confirm
their arrangements for getting home.

If you are travelling independently, you should read the Foreign Office advice
and consider whether your stay in Tunisia is essential.

If you remain in the country your travel insurance will likely be invalidated,
unless you can prove you have made a concerted effort to leave the country. In
pictures: British passengers arrive home from Tunisia after Foreign Office
warning

Q: What is the Foreign Office advice regarding specific areas of Tunisia?

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to:

-the Chaambi Mountain National Park area

-the Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and Sakiet
Sidi Youssef

-the militarized zone south of, but not including, the towns of El Borma and
Dhehiba

-within 5km of the Libya border area from north of Dhehiba up to but not
including the Ras Ajdir border crossing

The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the rest of Tunisia.

Q: Can I still be refunded for my holiday?

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) has said people due to travel to
Tunisia should contact the company they had booked through.

Abta said: "Those people with bookings beyond the summer are advised to wait
until closer to the departure date to contact their travel company as the
situation is fluid."

Full refunds are available with some tour operators, and some are offering
exchanges.

Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

Read more:3,000 British tourists airlifted out of TunisiaFurther terrorist
attack in Tunisia 'highly likely' Emergency airlift to evacuate all British
tourists underway

Q: Is travel to Tunisia still possible with commercial airlines?

Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all of their outbound flights to Tunisia
for the summer season which is up to 31 October.

Some flight operators are still offering flights, however, all those considering
travel should see Foreign Office guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 7:14 PM GMT

Tunisia terror alert: What do I do if I've booked a holiday there?;
Here's everything you need to know if you've planned a summer break in Tunisia
after a warning that another terror attack is 'highly likely'

BYLINE: By Dean Kirby

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646 words


Thousands of tourists who booked getaways in Tunisia are trying to find out if
they will still have a summer holiday.

It follows a Foreign and Commonwealth warning that another terror attack is
'highly likely'.

Hundreds of holidaymakers already in the country were flown back to Manchester
on two charter flights by Thomas Cook, with many more expected to follow over
the weekend.

Tourists booked on package deals will be given an alternative or a refund. The
impact on independent travellers could be more complex.

So what does the change in advice mean for your summer break? Here we answer
five key questions: Why do I need to change my travel plans?

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has changed its level of advice for Tunisia
and is now advising against all but essential travel.

It follows the terrorist attack in Sousse, which killed 38 holidaymakers
including 30 Britons. I'm already in Tunisia. What should I do?

Holiday firms are bringing more than 3,000 holidaymakers back to the UK, but
there may also be a number of holidaymakers who have travelled independently.

Abta, the Association of British Tour Agents, says holidaymakers in Tunisia are
advised to contact their travel company to confirm the arrangements for
returning home.

Those who have travelled independently are advised to follow Foreign Office
advice and consider if it is essential to stay in Tunisia. I've booked a package
holiday to Tunisia. What should I do now?

Those with holidays booked to leave within the next 48 hours are advised to
contact their travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package, you will be entitled to a refund or an alternative holiday.

If you are not travelling in the next 48 hours, you should still to speak to
your travel company and follow their advice.

Abta says that those with bookings beyond the summer are being advised to wait
until nearer their departure time to contact their travel company as the
situation is 'still fluid'. What are the major holiday companies saying about
it?

Most travel companies have been allowing customers with holidays booked to
Tunisia to cancel or amend their booking, so visitors are already significantly
down for this time of year - from around 20,000 to just 3,000.

Thomas Cook has cancelled all bookings to Tunisia up to October 31.

Passengers due to travel will be able to receive a full refund on cancellations
or to amend their holiday to another destination with no administration fees
until October 31.

Thomson and First Choice have also cancelled all fights to Tunisia for the
summer season. They have no customers currently in Tunisia but are repatriating
all staff.

Customers due to travel up to October 31 will be given an opportunity to change
their holiday free of charge to any of the firm's destinations currently on
sale, or will be able to get a refund.

They are also offering additional flights to destinations including the Balearic
Islands, mainland Spain and Cyprus, with those choosing them offered a £50
discount per person.

Monarch has cancelled all flights to Enfidha for the rest of the summer season
with immediate effect and all customers who have booked to travel there will
receive a full credit for their flight plus 10 per cent to be used within 12
months, or a full refund. Alternatively, they will have the choice of a change
of destination.

No fees will be charged but any fare difference will be payable.

EasyJet has cancelled its remaining flights to Monastir. It is allowing
passengers a free flight transfer on any date on an alternative route, or a full
refund. What if I still want to go to Tunisia?

Holidaymakers are being advised that travelling out to Tunisia now is likely to
invalidate their travel insurance policy. However, most insurers will continue
provide cover for travellers who were already in Tunisia at the time of Foreign
and Commonwealth Office advice changed.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 5:23 PM GMT

Hundreds of mourners attend funeral of 'devoted' Scottish couple killed in
Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 991 words



     ·    More than 400 people turn out for funeral of couple Jim and Ann
          McQuire
     ·    Pair were killed when gunman opened fire on Tunisian beach on June 26
     ·    Son Stuart today paid tribute to 'devoted' pair who would be 'sorely
          missed'
     ·    He said his parents had 'lived to enjoy life' at ceremony in their
          hometown


Hundreds of mourners have today turned out for the funeral of a 'devoted'
Scottish couple who will be 'sorely missed' after being gunned down in the
Tunisia beach massacre.

Jim and Ann McQuire were among the 38 people who lost their lives when a gunman
opened fire on holidaymakers on a tourist beach in the resort of Sousse two
weeks ago.

As a funeral service was held for them in their hometown of Cumbernauld, North
Lanarkshire, their only son Stuart said his parents had 'lived to enjoy life'.

The 32-year-old and his wife Nicola led the tributes at the funeral service,
attended by friends and family as well as the wider community in Cumbernauld.

In a family statement, he said: 'They were a couple devoted to each other and
who lived to enjoy life.

'They spent their lives contributing so much to the community. Through their
many interests they made friends and helped many causes within and out with the
church.'

He thanked the congregation at Abronhill Parish Church for their support.

He said: 'On behalf of myself and the family, I would like to thank everyone for
their kind words, cards and messages.

'It is overwhelming the support we have had and that so many people have been
touched by these tragic circumstances.'

Some 400 mourners filled the church, while scores of other people stood outside
and listened as the service was relayed on loudspeakers.

The couple had been active members of the church, where Mrs McQuire, 64, sang
and played guitar and Mr McQuire, 67, was captain of the 5th Cumbernauld Boys'
Brigade for many years.

Mr McQuire had five sisters, and his brother-in-law Charles Flockhart spoke on
behalf of the family during the service.

He said Mrs McQuire would often assist her husband with his Boys' Brigade
duties, telling mourners: 'They were a team, they worked together.'

He said the couple had 'enjoyed their holidays together', but said they 'didn't
venture very far' for several years after their son was born, going on caravan
holidays and to Boys' Brigade camps.

However, when Stuart grew older and saw his friends going 'all over the place',
he 'informed his parents that new destinations needed to be found', Mr Flockhart
said.

After their son married they felt they could 'retire and enjoy their life',
taking up hobbies and going on holiday more often.

'We as a family have come through our working life together, most of us now
reaching the age where we are retiring, and hoping we could all enjoy retirement
together.

'Sadly two of our family have been taken from us. But as long as we have the
memories of our life as a family, Jim and Ann will always be there with us.'

Mr Flockhart recalled how he had met Mr McQuire some 50 years ago, and he spoke
of his friend's love of the Rolling Stones.

'Even at 67 he was still able to dance like Jagger,' he said.

'The first time I realised Jimmy had any sisters I had known him for a couple of
years. Him and I were out walking and I noticed a couple of attractive girls
walking on the other side of the road.

'I mention this to Jimmy and said 'We should try to chat them up'. Jimmy told me
in no uncertain terms not to talk about his wee sister like that.'

He said Mr McQuire had been 'very protective of his sisters', before adding:
'Fortunately he introduced me to her later on.'

He told how family get-togethers 'were an intrinsic part of McQuire life',
saying: 'Ann could always be depended on for a song and also to remind me of the
words, usually when I had forgotten them.'

He recalled: 'Every Christmas Jim's father used to buy slippers for his
daughters and his daughter-in-law. It was his special present to his girls. He
picked them himself.

'The first Christmas after their father passed away Jim appeared at the usual
Christmas gathering with a bag. Inside the bag was a lot of beautifully wrapped
boxes. The girls were invited to pick a box and this was Jim carrying on the
tradition his father had started.

'He continued to do this every Christmas, but I'm quite sure Ann had a hand in
it as well, because like most men, we start off with great intentions but it's
usually the women who make sure we remember to do it.'

Reverend Joyce Keyes said the death of the McQuires had been felt by the local
community and the church congregation.

She said: 'It wasn't so much the things they did that were important to us as a
church. It's the people they were. They were very, very important to us in this
congregation and we're going to miss them being around.'

As the service drew to a close, officers from the Strathkelvin Battalion of the
Boys' Brigade - which includes the 5th Cumbernauld unit - formed a guard of
honour as the cars carrying the coffins left the church.

A book of condolence at the church, which has already been signed by hundreds of
people, is expected to remain open until after the funeral service.

The McQuire's were among 38 people killed - 30 of whom were British - killed in
last month's terrorist atrocity.

Another Scottish couple, Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot near Perth, lost
their lives when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

The funeral of the couple, who had been in Tunisia to celebrate Mrs Graham's
50th birthday, will take place at Perth Crematorium on Monday.

The family of another British victim of the attack, Sue Davey, have confirmed
that a church service of thanksgiving will be held at St Editha's in her home
town of Tamworth, Staffordshire, on July 17.

Ms Davey was killed along with her partner, Scott Chalkley, of Derby.

Last week, Britain paid a solemn tribute to those who lost their lives with a
minute's silence.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
also died in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 4:20 PM GMT

Hundreds of mourners attend funeral of 'devoted' Scottish couple killed in
Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 609 words



     ·    More than 400 people turn out for funeral of couple Jim and Ann
          McQuire
     ·    Pair were killed when gunman opened fire on Tunisian beach on June 26
     ·    Son Stuart today paid tribute to 'devoted' pair who would be 'sorely
          missed'
     ·    He said his parents had 'lived to enjoy life' at ceremony in their
          hometown


Hundreds of mourners have today turned out for the funeral of a 'devoted'
Scottish couple who will be 'sorely missed' after being gunned down in the
Tunisia beach massacre.

Jim and Ann McQuire were among the 38 people who lost their lives when a gunman
opened fire on holidaymakers on a tourist beach in the resort of Sousse two
weeks ago.

As a funeral service was held for them in their hometown of Cumbernauld, North
Lanarkshire, their only son Stuart said his parents had 'lived to enjoy life'.

The 32-year-old and his wife Nicola led the tributes at the funeral service,
attended by friends and family as well as the wider community in Cumbernauld.

In a family statement, he said: 'They were a couple devoted to each other and
who lived to enjoy life.

'They spent their lives contributing so much to the community. Through their
many interests they made friends and helped many causes within and out with the
church.'

He thanked the congregation at Abronhill Parish Church for their support.

He said: 'On behalf of myself and the family, I would like to thank everyone for
their kind words, cards and messages.

'It is overwhelming the support we have had and that so many people have been
touched by these tragic circumstances.'

Some 400 mourners filled the church, while scores of other people stood outside
and listened as the service was relayed on loudspeakers.

The couple had been active members of the church, where Mrs McQuire, 64, sang
and played guitar and Mr McQuire, 67, was captain of the 5th Cumbernauld Boys'
Brigade for many years.

The church has previously held prayer gatherings to help the local community
come to terms with the loss.

Speaking ahead of the service, Rev Joyce Keyes said: 'The church has been
inundated with messages and expressions of support in the form of flowers,
cards, emails, prayers and words of comfort both for the McQuire family and for
the church community.

'Many people have been touched by the tragic deaths of people enjoying their
holiday, even more so when they include folks you know - people from your own
community.'

Paying tribute to the couple previously, the Church of Scotland minister said:
'Ann and Jim were a kind and gentle couple who will be sorely missed by our
congregation; for their willingness to share their musical talents, for their
contributions to the Boys' Brigade and for the fellowship we shared.'

A book of condolence at the church, which has already been signed by hundreds of
people, is expected to remain open until after the funeral service.

The McQuire's were among 38 people killed - 30 of whom were British - killed in
last month's terrorist atrocity.

Another Scottish couple, Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot near Perth, lost
their lives when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

The funeral of the couple, who had been in Tunisia to celebrate Mrs Graham's
50th birthday, will take place at Perth Crematorium on Monday.

The family of another British victim of the attack, Sue Davey, have confirmed
that a church service of thanksgiving will be held at St Editha's in her home
town of Tamworth, Staffordshire, on July 17.

Ms Davey was killed along with her partner, Scott Chalkley, of Derby.

Last week, Britain paid a solemn tribute to those who lost their lives with a
minute's silence.

Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese and one Russian
also died in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 9:40 AM GMT

Tunisia evacuation: Hundreds of holidaymakers set to land back in Manchester;
The government yesterday advised all British citizens to leave the North African
country immediately after intelligence revealed a second terror attack was
"highly likely."

BYLINE: By Chris Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


Hundreds of holidaymakers being evacuated from Tunisia are set to land back in
Manchester today.

The government yesterday advised all British citizens to leave the North African
country immediately after intelligence revealed a second terror attack was
"highly likely."

It follows an attack by a gunman who opened fire on a beach in the popular
resort of Sousse last month, killing more 38 people, 30 of those Brits.

And 22 people were killed in a massacre at the National Bardo Museum outside the
capital Tunis in March.

Between 2,500 and 3,000 British package holidaymakers are thought to be in
Tunisia as well as around 300 independent travellers.

And emergency flights are now being laid on by tour operators to bring them
home.

Two flights are scheduled to touch down at Manchester Airport today, at 12.30pm
and 2.25pm .

The first is being run by Thomas Cook who have a total of ten flights heading
back into the UK from Tunisia's Enfidha Airport in the coming days.

They also have two flights due to land into Manchester on Sunday at 1.55pm and
2.20pm.

A spokesman said: "The safety and well-being of our customers is our primary
concern.

"In response to the recent change in Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice we
have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as
soon as we can using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over
the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights.

"We are also sending our specialist assistance teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort."

Thomson and First Choice said they no longer had any customers in Tunisia but
that they would also be bringing home all their staff as a precaution.

They have a flight scheduled to arrive in Manchester on Sunday July 26.

Anyone with holidays booked to the country in the coming months are also being
offered the chance to change the destination free of charge.

Announcing the change in travel advice yesterday, the Foreign Secretary Philip
Hammond said: "While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or
imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture
has developed considerably leading us to the view that a further terrorist
attack is highly likely."

The Foreign Office said: "Since the attack in Sousse, we have been working
closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the attack and the wider
threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              July 10, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leave Tunisia now, Brits told;
New terror attack is highly likely, says the Foreign Office Tunisia flights axed
for rest of summer

BYLINE: DANIEL BINNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 305 words


THOUSANDS of Britons are being flown home from Tunisia following warnings last
night that another terrorist attack is 'highly likely'.

Tourists are no longer safe in the country, where gunman Seifeddine Rezgui
(pictured) massacred 30 Britons and eight others at a beach resort, said foreign
secretary Philip Hammond. Tour operators are sending jets to retrieve about
3,000 holidaymakers.

About 300 independent travellers and several hundred expats are being urged to
arrange their own flights. Mr Hammond said: 'We have not taken this decision
lightly but our first priority will always be the safety of our citizens.'

The advice came after a government review ordered in the wake of last month's
carnage in Sousse.

Tunisia - desperate to stop its holiday trade being ruined - has pledged to send
1,000 armed police to patrol resorts. It has even promised to build a 100-mile
wall to stop militants getting in from Libya.

But the Foreign Office said it was advising against travel for now as, while
there is 'no specific or imminent threat', the level of risk has risen.
Holidaymakers who ignore the advice are likely to find their travel insurance is
invalid, the Association of British Travel Agents said. The Monarch airline
confirmed it was arranging to bring all customers home by the weekend. It has
cancelled all its flights to tourist airport Enfidha for the rest of the summer.

The Thomson and First Choice group said it had no customers in the country but
would be pulling all staff out of resorts and cancelling all flights until
October 31. People with package holidays booked in Tunisia - where 21 people
were also killed in March in an attack on a museum - are entitled to a refund or
alternative holiday, Abta said. Mr Hammond promised Tunisia: 'We will keep the
situation under close review.'

Families' fightback: Page 21

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 7:41 PM GMT

Foreign Office Tunisia terror alert: Returning British tourists accuse
Government of 'giving in to terrorism';
Hundreds of Brits have begun to arrive back in the UK after the FCO warned
another terrorist attack was "highly likely" following last month's Sousse beach
massacre

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Returning British tourists have accused the Foreign Office of 'giving in to
terrorism' by urging them to return from Tunisia.

Hundreds of Brits have begun to arrive back in the UK after the FCO warned
another terrorist attack was "highly likely" following last month's Sousse beach
massacre.

Thirty of the 38 people killed in last month's attack were British.

Extra flights have been laid on to help get up to 3,000 British package
holidaymakers and around 500 independent travellers believed to be in the
country back to the UK.

But the British Government came under fire at home and abroad arguing the move
showed Britain was giving in to terrorists.

At Heathrow Airport today, passengers coming in on Tunisair flight TU790, which
landed at 4.50pm, agreed.

David Magliano, 52, managing director of membership at the Guardian newspaper,
had his family holiday cut short.

He said: "Generally speaking it's been really effectively organised. But I do
think it's definitely giving in to terrorism.

"It's like theatrical policing. It's like having loads of police on the
Underground. They are not likely to prevent anything. It just gives that
superficial sense of reassurance."

He added that the impact would be 'devastating' for those working in Tunisia's
tourism industry, on which the country is heavily reliant.

He said: "I feel bad, not for us having a holiday cut short by a couple of days
- that's not an issue - but the fact there are so many people directly employed
by the tourism industry, or the taxi companies or in souks, it affects so many
people."

Mr Magliano had flown to Tunis with his pregnant wife Jo, 39, and their sons
Oliver, seven, and Hugo, two, last Sunday for a week's stay at a top hotel.

They were due to fly home on Sunday, but changed their plans last night after
reading a BBC report about the Foreign Office warning online.

Mrs Magliano said: "Then our travel agent, Bailey Robinson, got in touch with us
this morning saying we have held seats for you on today's flight and we strongly
urge you to get on it.

"We were disappointed because we felt very safe in out resort, because we were
pretty much the only ones there and there were armed guards.

"Before we flew we knew about the attack, obviously, and they said they were
going to beef up security.

British nationals killed in the Tunisia terror attack arrive at RAF Brize Norton
in Oxfordshire

"But we felt we should follow the advice because, being pregnant, if I needed
medical attention it could cause difficulties with travel insurance or
whatever's going to happen next.

"The hotel said they would refund us the two nights we had outstanding and said
to arrange that through our tour operator."

She added: "We had booked to fly to Sousse in four weeks' time and I was worried
about going there, so I'm sort of relieved that's passed.

"I don't even have to think now about whether I'm going. It's been taken out of
my hands."

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 7:13 PM GMT

British tourists 'angry' after being told to leave Tunisia in face of imminent
terror attack;
Holidaymakers have said they feel "extremely safe" in the country and are
"upset" and "disappointed" about having to return home

BYLINE: By Nina Massey

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1060 words


British tourists have hit out at Foreign Office demands they return home from
Tunisia amid fears of an imminent terrorist attack.

Holidaymakers have said they feel "extremely safe" in the country and are
"upset" and "disappointed" about having to return home.

Heidi Barlow, 34, arrived on Wednesday in Hammamet, a town north of Sousse, with
her mother Lesley, but now expects their 10-day holiday to be cut short.

The pair were informed of the warning by family and friends in the UK, before
the information was confirmed by a Thomas Cook representative.

Ms Barlow, a marketing manager, said the news was a "shock" for fellow British
holidaymakers in Tunisia.

She said: "We would actually be happy to stay in the current situation because
we feel so safe. It's very quiet. And you can't imagine that anything could
happen.

"People feel safe. They certainly didn't expect to have to leave."

She added: "On every single entrance to the hotels there's a guard. There's
armed guards on the beaches. It's extremely secure and probably more secure than
a lot of places you could go at the moment."

According to Ms Barlow, just 40 guests are staying in the resort, which usually
hosts up to 1,300 tourists. She described the atmosphere as "quite eerie".

Ms Barlow also defended her decision to visit Tunisia, after booking the trip
last week.

She said: "In comparison to a lot of places in the world at the moment it's
probably one of the safest places to go."

But Ms Barlow said she respected the latest advice.

British holidaymaker Myles Roberts said he would return to Tunisia once the
travel advice changes.

He said: "There are nine security guards with machine guns around my hotel,
there's a speedboat patrolling up and down with a machine gun on that too.

"I feel safer here than I ever have in London."

The first disappointed holidaymakers forced to return home from Tunisia have
criticised the Government's handling of the issue as they arrived back in the UK
at Manchester Airport.

Craig Lewis, 35, from Oldbury, West Midlands, said he was personally
disappointed to be flying home after spending just a day of his week-long
holiday in Tunisia.

Mr Lewis said: "I think the message was, 'you can go out there if you choose',
and of course you get out there and it's like, 'you need to come home'.

"I got out there, just getting settled, and it's time to come home.

"It's disappointing but for the British Government to say there's going to be
another terrorist event, it is best to come home."

Tracey Caburn had returned from Tunisia with her mother, Maureen Sudmore and
sister Debbie Murphy, from Pontefract.

Mrs Caburn said: "It's a disgrace. We felt safe. We would've stayed there.

"We got called last night at 11.30pm saying they wanted everybody out but we
could fly back to the UK either Friday or Sunday.

"Then at five to six this morning we were told we had to be in the lobby in 10
minutes.

"We didn't feel threatened at all. There were guards on the roof, the gates, the
beach. We wanted to stay.

"If they were going to bring us home so quickly they should not have let us fly
out in the first place.

"We never once felt threatened."

Her mother added: "We are going to Britain on holiday next year."

Les Aston, 61, from Shrewsbury, was also disappointed to be home.

"It's just not fair," he said.

"I feel very disappointed.

"They let us go out there and now we've been brought back home. It makes no
sense.

"The staff were in tears when we left the hotel. Tourism in Tunisia will be
ruined."

A British ex-pat in Tunisia has told of how she will not let terrorists force
her out of the country she loves, and called on the Foreign Office to release
more information about the threat.

Julie Barnett-King, 53, who spends her time between Tunisia and London, and has
been living in Hammamet for around three years, said she did not have enough
information to make a decision.

She added that she was in London on the day of the massacre and cried when she
heard the news, but that although not everyone will understand her choice, she
feels safe in the country.

Ms Barnett-King said: "I think most of us ex-pats just love Tunisia and we don't
want to abandon it. It isn't that we don't care about ourselves, but I am not
going to be scaremongered into leaving.

"We don't know what information the UK Government has.

"Part of me feels like I won't let the terrorists tell me what I can and can't
do.

"I will look around me a bit more and be vigilant - it is stupid to stick your
head in the sand and think that nothing will happen.

Tunisia terror attack timeline

"But before I decide to move back to England permanently, I think it is
necessary that ex-pats are given more information about the threat.

"There are a lot of British women who have married Tunisian men, and have
children and families, so for a lot of them they are more Tunisian than English.

"They stayed here for the revolution, but we are dealing with a completely
different animal.

"We really don't know what the full situation is, and until I get that, or there
is another major attack, I am staying put.

"I just think we need to be better informed about what the information is - we
have been told nothing so far.

"Many of the ex-pats will pack a bag and leave, but I think it is necessary for
us to know more so we can make a better informed decision.

"The situation will have to be really serious for me to stay in London, and that
is only because my two daughters are still there.

Heidi Barlow feels secure in Tunisia and doesn't want to leave

"They are my first consideration, but I also would not want to leave my husband
and his mum behind."

She added that she loves Tunisia, which is a "beautiful country", and considers
herself Tunisian.

"People might think I am nuts, but at the end of the day, and obviously I don't
want to see 30 Brits or children killed, but I don't think it is necessary to
leave. I feel safe."

The compliance auditor said that terrorism had been growing in the country for
some time, with "little cells" operating locally, but that nothing had been done
to help Tunisians.

Ms Barnett-King added: "Tunisians are now in pieces over this and have lost hope
for the moment, with many more now unemployed.

"They feel betrayed in the main and hoped for some solidarity and support from
Europe, especially the UK Government.

"I'm very angry with the situation. It's just a 'turn tail and run' situation,
no assistance."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 10, 2015 Friday 12:07 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack warning: RECAP after Foreign Office warns Brits to return
home;
As many as 3,000 British tourists have been urged to return from the north
African country as a terror attack is deemed 'highly likely'

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 19 words


Mourners pay their respects during a minute's silence at the scene of the Sousse
beach massacre

Tunisia terror attack

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Nottingham Post

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Second terror attack in Tunisia 'highly likely'

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 2-3

LENGTH: 199  words


ALL British nationals have been told to leave Tunisia after the Foreign Office
warned a "further terrorist attack is highly likely".

In updated travel advice released last night, it advised against "all but
essential travel" to the  country.

This follows  the   beach attack by a gunman  on June 26   that killed 38
people, including 30 Britons -   among  them   Nottinghamshire social worker
John Stollery (pictured).

The Foreign Office said on its website: "Since the attack in Sousse, we have
been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the wider
threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at     present   and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Nottinghamshire County Council members yesterday held a minute's silence  for
Mr Stollery  at its full council meeting.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 5:31 AM BST

TIMELINE OF TUNISIA TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Press Association Reporter

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


Tunisia has been scene of two terror attacks this year in which Britons have
been victims.

Here is a timeline of events:

March 18

Two gunmen storm the Bardo Museum, Tunis. Twenty-two people die in the attack,
including Shropshire solicitor and mother-of-two Sally Adey. The 57-year-old had
been on an excursion with her husband.

In the immediate aftermath some holiday firms cancel excursions to Tunis. At the
time travel trade association Abta said the majority of holidaymakers in the
country were in popular coastal resorts away from the capital and said holidays
were likely to go ahead as normal, with the exception of the cancelled trips to
Tunis.

June 26

At 11.15am as tourists were sunbathing on a beach in the coastal resort of
Sousse gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire, killing 38 people. In the days that
follow the number of victims identified as British rises, with the final death
toll confirmed as 30 by July 2.

Three Irish people also died, alongside two Germans, one Belgian, one Portuguese
and one Russian. The attack, after which Rezgui was shot dead by police, is
thought to have lasted around 30 minutes.

July 1

The first eight bodies of the Britons killed are repatriated on an RAF flight
from Tunis military airport to Brize Norton in Oxfordshire. All 30 are returned
home to the UK by July 4.

July 3

A minute's silence is held across the UK in memory of the victims of the attack.

The first inquests are opened, hearing details of the fatal wounds suffered by
those who died. The hearings are told that 275 witness accounts have been taken
by police, while more than 1,200 potential witnesses have returned to the UK.

July 4

Tunisia's president Beji Caid Essebsi declares a state of emergency. The
government promises new laws to increase police powers and provide for harsher
penalties for terrorism convictions.

July 9

The Foreign Office updates its travel advice for Tunisia, warning against all
but essential travel there following intelligence that a terrorist attack is
``highly likely''.

Travel firms including Thompson and First Choice, Thomas Cook and Monarch
announce that they will bring customers and staff back to the UK from Tunisia,
and cancel all flights to the country for the rest of the summer season.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 10, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Thousands of tourists in Tunisia evacuation;
Second attack by terrorists 'highly likely' ; Tourists told to leave Tunisia

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton; Bel Trew ;Graeme Paton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 1062 words


Thousands of British tourists are being evacuated from Tunisia after the Foreign
Office warned that another terrorist attack was highly likely.

Tour operators were organising extra flights back to Britain last night after
the government told holidaymakers that they were not safe and advised against
non-essential travel.

The move came almost two weeks after the terrorist attack in the beach resort of
Sousse in which 38 tourists were killed, 30 of them Britons.

The advice is understood to have been prompted by fresh intelligence about
associates of the gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui. At least two militants connected
with him are still at large and there are fears that they could attempt another
marauding gun attack.

Rezgui was originally thought to be a "lone wolf" but a clearer picture has
emerged about his fellow cell members, with fears that they are capable of
carrying out another attack. He is thought to have been trained in Libya by
Islamic State and is believed to have been part of a terrorist cell.

The authorities emphasised that an attack was not imminent and there was no
information on a specific plot, but there are also concerns about the capability
of the Tunisian authorities to protect British tourists.

There are about 3,000 package holidaymakers in Tunisia, with an unknown number
of independent travellers and a few hundred British residents. About 2,000 of
the tourists have travelled there with Thomas Cook, which announced that it was
putting on extra flights to pull them out and had now cancelled all holidays
until the end of October.

The holiday company said: "In response to the recent change in Foreign and
Commonwealth Office advice we have taken this decision to bring all Thomas Cook
customers back to the UK as soon as we can, using third-party carriers and on
our ten scheduled flights over the weekend. Thomas Cook is strongly advising its
guests in the country to return on these flights. We are also sending our
specialist assistance teams to Tunisia to offer customers additional support."

Thomson and First Choice have no tourists in Tunisia, but are evacuating all
staff. The tour operators have cancelled outbound flights for the rest of the
summer and anyone due to travel will be able to change their holiday free of
charge or receive a full refund. Easy-Jet also said that it would not accept new
outbound bookings.

Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said: "Since the attack in Sousse the
intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably, leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely. The Tunisian
investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the Bardo museum
earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they want to
track down further individuals who Continued on page 6, column 3 Continued from
page 1 they suspect may have links to this attack. While we are working with the
Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those measures, we judge that more
work is needed to effectively protect tourists from the terrorist threat."

The updated travel advice from the Foreign Office said: "On balance, we do not
believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate protection for British
tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have therefore changed our travel
advice accordingly."

The Tunisian authorities have eight people in custody including one woman -
thought to be Rezgui's girlfriend - accused of being in a "sleeper cell" that
managed the attack.

There are at least two fugitives, a business co-ordinator, Rafik al-Tayari, 24,
from an area outside Tunis and a student, Mohamed al-Charadi, 23, from the
northern city of Bizerte, who are accused of providing logistical support to the
gunman. They allegedly used the same smuggling route to get to Libya where they
met Rezgui and were trained by Isis operatives.

Tunisian police have arrested several other jihadists with ties to Isis, most
recently on Tuesday when four people in the central city of Sidi Bouzid were
accused of promoting terror operations. On Wednesday the Tunisian interior
ministry confirmed that 33 people aged 16 to 35, including one woman, went
missing from the southern province of Tataouine. Their families fear they have
crossed into Libya. One British tourist, who has been caught up in a series of
terrorist attacks, said that he had taken advantage of a cheap-all inclusive
trip, which he booked after the attack.

Steve Parkinson, 38, a hotel manager, is staying a few miles from where the
attack took place. He said that the gamble had seemed worth it as "lightning
does not hit twice". He added: "If the foreign office say come home, it's come
home now as they don't do it lightly and will [make] good my insurance,."

Q&A What is the current situation in Tunisia? The Foreign and Commonwealth
Office (FCO) yesterday changed its travel advice and is advising against all but
essential travel to Tunisia as another terrorist attack is "highly likely".

What if I am in Tunisia now? Between 2,500 and 3,000 British tourists are in
Tunisia now, all of whom are advised to organise a return home.

Are there any particularly dangerous areas? Yes. The FCO is warning against all
travel to the Chaambi Mountain National Park area, Tunisia-Algeria border
crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and Sakiet Sidi Youssef and the
militarised zone south of El Borma and Dhehiba. Britons are warned to stay three
miles from the Libya border area from north of Dhehiba up to but not including
the Ras Ajdir border crossing.

What if I have booked a forthcoming holiday in Tunisia? Anyone who has booked a
package holiday is entitled to a refund or an alternative holiday from their
tour operator, according to the Association of British Travel Agents.
Independent travellers should contact their airline and liaise with the company
they booked through to cancel accommodation. EasyJet customers are entitled to a
full refund or a free flight to an alternative destination.

What if I was thinking of going to Tunisia? Most major British tour and flight
operators are not offering at present trips to Tunisia. EasyJet will operate
just three more flights to Tunisia over the next eight days before stopping
flights.

Will this affect me if I am holidaying near Tunisia? Morocco is the closest
popular destination for Britons,but the FCO warning will have no impact on
travellers to Morocco.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        July 10, 2015 Friday 8:35 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Tourists and staff flee country amid warnings another
terrorist attack is 'highly likely';
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has urged all Britons to leave Tunisia
following intelligence that further terrorist attacks are possible

BYLINE: By Alicia Melville-Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 859 words


Tourists and staff are being evacuated from Tunisia after the Government said
another terrorist attack is "highly likely".

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has urged all British people to leave
Tunisia after receiving intelligence about further attacks.

Between 2,500-3,000 British package holidaymakers are believed to be in the
country and about 300 independent travellers.

Related: How serious is the threat of terrorism? How do I get home?

A gunman killed 38 holidaymakers - including 30 Britons and three people from
Ireland - in last month's beach massacre at Sousse which came after 22 people,
mostly tourists, were killed at the National Bardo Museum outside Tunis in
March.

Trudy Jones, a 51-year-old care worker from Blackwood, was among those killed.

Several other Welsh people were injured including hero dad Mathew James who was
released from hospital this week.

All of the Britons who were killed in Sousse on June 26 were Thomson and First
Choice customers.

Following the government's warning, Thomson and First Choice immediately
cancelled all flights to Tunisia for the summer season adding that "as a
precautionary measure we have taken the decision to repatriate all British
Thomson and First Choice staff currently working in Tunisia within the next 24
hours."

Thomas Cook, which cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up to October 31,
said it is putting on an extra flight today to bring its customers back to the
UK.

The returning holidaymakers will touch down in Manchester as some of the
funerals of the Britons killed in Sousse take place.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond told the BBC: "While we do not have any
information suggesting a specific or imminent threat, since the attack in Sousse
the intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably leading us to the
view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely."

In updated travel advice, the FCO said: "Since the attack in Sousse, we have
been working closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the attack and
the wider threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia.

"Although we have had good co-operation from the Tunisian government, including
putting in place additional security measures, the intelligence and threat
picture has developed considerably, reinforcing our view that a further
terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

Holidaymakers should contact their tour operators about returning to Britain and
independent travellers should make their own arrangements to leave, the FCO
said.

A Thomas Cook spokesman said: "The safety and well-being of our customers is our
primary concern ... In response to the recent change in FCO advice we have taken
this decision to bring all Thomas Cook customers back to the UK as soon as we
can using third party carriers and on our 10 scheduled flights over the weekend.

"Thomas Cook is strongly advising its guests in the country to return on these
flights. We are also sending our specialist assistance teams to Tunisia to offer
customers additional support in resort."

Monarch Airlines said it is arranging to repatriate all customers in resorts
"back to the UK as soon as possible" in response to the changed advice. Flights
have been organised to take them out of Tunisia by this weekend.

The airline is cancelling all flights to Enfidha for the rest of the summer
season with "immediate effect". All customers who have already booked to travel
there will get a full refund or credit or they may be able to change their
destination.

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) urged people due to travel to
Tunisia to contact the company they booked through.

It said: "For anyone due to travel, you should be aware that travelling out to
Tunisia at this time is likely to invalidate your travel insurance policies.
Most insurance policies will still provide cover for travellers in a country at
the time of Foreign Office advice change.

"Those with holidays booked within the next 48 hours to Tunisia are advised to
contact your travel company to discuss available options. If you have booked a
package you will be entitled to a refund or alternative holiday."

The new advice is another hammer blow for the Tunisian tourist industry.

Nabil Ammar, Tunisian ambassador to the UK, said the British Government's
announcement was what the terrorists wanted.

He told BBC Two's Newsnight: "This is what the terrorists want. By damaging the
tourism, by having foreigners leaving the country, they damage the whole sector
and put so many people out of work and on the streets.

"Hotels have to close and this is an important industry.

"One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope. It is not the only motor of it
but it is one of the very important origins."

In response to the terror attacks Tunisia announced plans to build a barrier
along the border with Libya - including fencing, a sand wall, trenches and
surveillance posts - to keep out extremists following recent terror attacks
claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      July 11, 2015 Saturday 12:20 PM GMT

Five extremists shot dead by special forces amid fears of new Tunisia hols
terror attack

BYLINE: David Gooding

LENGTH: 392 words


SPECIAL forces have killed five extremists amid fears of a new terror attack in
Tunisia.

A crack Tunisian national guard unit is believed to have shot dead five
suspected jihadists.

Their action comes as Brit sun seekers heed advice to fly home from the north
African country after a terror attack left 38 tourists dead a fortnight ago.

Tunisia's government declared a state of emergency after Islamic State fanboy
Seifeddine Rezgui gunned down holidaymakers, including 30 Brits, in the beach
resort of Sousse on June 26.

Now the Tunisian army and national guard have swooped on eight suspected
terrorists, killing five, in a gunfight in the mountains near Gafsa, 160 miles
from Sousse.

Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid

Earlier this week, the UK Government urged all British tourists to leave
Tunisia, saying an extremist attack was "highly likely" despite enhanced
security measures.

But some Brit holidaymakers have accused the Government of handing victory to
terrorists by ordering a mass evacuation.

In the wake of the Sousse massacre Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid said his
Government "did everything in our power to protect British citizens and their
interests, as well as those of all other countries".

Tunisia has carried out 7,000 security operations since terrorists killed 22
people, mostly foreign tourists, in an attack on a museum in the capital Tunis
in March.

Mr Essid said security forces have arrested 1,000 people and stopped 15,000
young people from travelling to fight jihad abroad and were working to remedy
"shortcomings."

He said: "Our country is going through a delicate situation and is in danger."

Many Western European tour operators suspended trips to Tunisia following the
Sousse killings.

France has urged its citizens in Tunisia to be "particularly vigilant" but
stopped short of urging departures.

Germany, two of whose citizens died in the Sousse shooting, has made no
immediate change to its travel advice.

Ireland, Denmark, Belgium and Finland have all discouraged citizens from
non-essential travel to the country.

Related articles Hate preacher on £50K benefits facing deportation for inspiring
Tunisian terror attack Holiday Brits return home in Tunisia terror evacuation -
but they're not happy WATCH: Chilling footage emerges of Tunisian gunman walking
along beach swinging AK47

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Doncaster Free Press

                             July 11, 2015 Saturday

More British holidaymakers to return home from Tunisia over fears of new terror
attack

LENGTH: 885  words


More British holidaymakers are expected to fly home from Tunisia today, after
the Government urged them to leave the country amid fears of another attack.

Monarch Airlines confirmed that 125 of its customers had returned on a flight
into Gatwick last night, and expected another flight to land at the airport this
afternoon.

Extra flights were laid on across the weekend to evacuate up to 3,000 British
package holidaymakers and 300 independent travellers who were believed to be in
Tunisia.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond defended the repatriation of tourists, after
protests from the north African country that the UK was playing into terrorists'
hands.

Some Britons in Tunisia voiced anger that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
(FCO) had not changed its travel advice to warn against visiting the country
immediately after the June 26 attack in the resort of Sousse.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui murdered 38 holidaymakers, including 30 UK nationals,
in an outrage for which the Islamic State group has claimed responsibility.

But others said they were disappointed to have to cut their holidays short.

Heidi Barlow, 34, said she was reassured by the armed guards posted at hotel
entrances and beaches, adding: "People feel safe. They certainly didn't expect
to have to leave."

Foreign tourism accounts for around 15% of Tunisian GDP, and the country's
ambassador in London, Nabil Ammar, warned: "This is what the terrorists want. By
damaging the tourism, by having foreigners leaving the country, they damage the
whole sector and put so many people out of work and on the streets.

"One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope. It is not the only motor of it
but it is one of the very important origins."

Mr Hammond said the Government had been careful not to act in a "knee-jerk
manner" by urging Britons to quit Tunisia after the Sousse attack, and said the
UK will continue to work with Tunisia on improving security and hoped to
downgrade the travel advice "in the not too distant future".

Downing Street said that "substantial" work was needed to improve security for
tourists, and it was likely to be "some time" before the advice against travel
can be lifted.

The first disappointed holidaymakers, who arrived back in the UK at Manchester
Airport yesterday, criticised the Government's handling of the issue.

Tracey Caburn returned from Tunisia with her mother, Maureen Sudmore and sister
Debbie Murphy, from Pontefract.

Mrs Caburn said: "It's a disgrace. We felt safe. We would've stayed there. We
didn't feel threatened at all. There were guards on the roof, the gates, the
beach. We wanted to stay.

"If they were going to bring us home so quickly they should not have let us fly
out in the first place."

Les Aston, 61, from Shrewsbury, was also disappointed to be home.

He said: "They let us go out there and now we've been brought back home. It
makes no sense. The staff were in tears when we left the hotel. Tourism in
Tunisia will be ruined."

Downing Street said the revised travel advice was based on information received
over the previous 24 hours.

This included evolving intelligence about the threat to Britons in Tunisia;
information from the Tunisian security authorities that people with possible
links to the Sousse attack were still at large; and the results of a security
assessment carried out by UK experts.

A Thomas Cook spokesman said it was "strongly advising" customers in Tunisia to
return to the UK over the weekend, and was sending specialist assistance teams
to the country to offer additional support in resorts.

Monarch Airlines is arranging to repatriate all customers in resorts "back to
the UK as soon as possible".

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice have no remaining customers in the
country, but have cancelled all flights to Tunisia for the summer season.

Foreign Affairs Select Committee chairman Crispin Blunt indicated he would still
be prepared to go on holiday to Tunisia as he said Mr Hammond would be
questioned by MPs about the decision later this month.

Tory MP and former minister Mr Blunt said: "The Government stood with the people
of Tunisia in the immediate wake of the gun attack and didn't immediately change
the travel advice when you might have expected them to do so.

"It's not clear from the detail of Philip's statement, and it may not be
possible that he can say more, but this may be an opportunity for the Foreign
Affairs Select Committee to ask him these questions when we are going to have
him in front of us on July 21."

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme he had not seen the intelligence which
prompted Mr Hammond to change the advice but added that other countries
including France had not taken the same action.

"It's obviously a matter of judgment rather than crystal clear," he said.

Mr Blunt said getting the balance right was "difficult" but "it is dangerous in
the United Kingdom, we have a very high threat level here, it is dangerous in
other countries where British tourists go".

The senior MP said he would be prepared to go on holiday to Tunisia but added
that the advice meant "no one can get insurance, the major tour operators then
are forced to evacuate their people there, it becomes very difficult for
individuals then to exercise their own individual judgment".

"But on the basis of what I know, would I be prepared to go myself? Yes."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDFP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      July 11, 2015 Saturday 12:03 AM GMT

Met apologises for Cuban flag T-shirt worn by 'terrorist' during mock attack;
Cuba Solidarity Campaign welcomes apology for what police describe as
'regrettable error' in costume choice for actor in simulated terrorist attack

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


The Metropolitan police have apologised unreservedly for dressing one of their
"terrorists" in a Cuban flag T-shirt during the recent Operation Strong Tower
simulation of a terrorist attack in London.

Complaints were made to the police after the officer, who was also wearing a
balaclava and carrying a weapon, was shown on national television on 1 July.

Maxine de Brunner, the Met's deputy assistant commissioner, has written to the
Cuba Solidarity Campaign, which raised the issue, to offer an official apology.

"I have viewed the footage which has concerned you and others," she wrote.
"Photographs and film do show one of the role actors wearing a T-shirt under
their jacket, which shows the flag of Cuba. This was clearly a regrettable
error, which I take full responsibility for."

She added: "The role actor has been spoken to. He genuinely did not think of the
significance and implications of wearing a T-shirt with a national flag on it.
The impact has been explained, he is genuinely sorry and states there was no
intention to cause offence or associate the Cuban people with terrorism."

De Brunner offered a "sincere and unreserved apology" and said lessons would be
learned for future exercises.

Rob Miller, of the Cuba Solidarity Campaign, welcomed the apology. "The cruel
irony is that, in fact, the Cuban people themselves have been the victims of
numerous terrorist attacks from US-based groups over the last 55 years, which
have left 3,478 dead and 2,099 disabled," he said.

"Too often, the small island of Cuba has suffered misrepresentation and
misinformation from the anti-Cuban mass media. This incident could further
perpetuate such dominant anti-Cuba smears."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 11, 2015 Saturday 2:25 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorism: Five suspected extremists shot dead amid fears of another
terror attack;
The government has defended its security services after the government urged all
British tourists to fly home because they were not adequately protected

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 501 words


Five suspected jihadists have been shot dead in Tunisia amid fears of another
terror attack following the massacre in Sousse.

Security forces killed the men yesterday during a counter-terrorism operation
near the town of El Ktar in Gafsa governate.

The alleged extremists were reportedly found with four Kalashnikovs, the same
weapon used by beach gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, a pistol, two grenades, several
mobile phones, documents and a large sum of cash.

Tunisian news website Kapitalis reported that Mourad Gharsalli, who was wanted
by the interior ministry on terror charges, was among the dead.

The 27-year-old was thought to be a member of al-Qaeda affiliate the Okba Ibn
Nafaa Brigade and had been implicated in several attacks, including a deadly
raid on a minister's home and murdering members of the Tunisian National Guard.

The interior ministry put out a statement saying a "terrorist group" was
operating in near the Algerian border in Gafsa and appealing for information in
February.

Read more: British government urges tourists to leave Tunisia'We feel safer here
than London' say holidaymakersEmergency airlift to evacuate all UK citizens
underway

Friday's deaths are a major coup for the Tunisian security forces, which have
been carrying out counter-terrorism sweeps of the country's mountainous central
region.

Walid Louguini, a spokesperson for the interior ministry, told the Associated
Press that a gunfight erupted in the morning as a special National Guard unit
chased eight suspected extremists in the Ouled Bouomrane area.

It came after the British Government urged all UK tourists to leave the country
because further terrorist attacks were "highly likely".

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, appeared to criticise Tunisian
counter-terrorism efforts in his statement.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack and that on the
Bardo museum earlier this year is ongoing and the Tunisians have made clear they
want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to this
attack," he said.

"While we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further strengthen those
measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively protect tourists from
the terrorist threat." In pictures: British passengers arrive home from Tunisia
after Foreign Office warning

Thirty British tourists were among 38 victims gunned down in Sousse last month
and thousands of holidaymakers who had chosen not to cancel their holidays on
the country's popular coastline were being flown home today.

Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid said his government "did everything in our
power to protect (British) citizens and their interests, as well as those of all
other countries".

The government has carried out 7,000 security operations since the Bardo museum
attack, arresting 1,000 people and stopping 15,000 people from travelling to
fight jihad abroad, he added, and was working to remedy "shortcomings".

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 11, 2015 Saturday 10:00 PM GMT

British runaway schoolgirl, 16, MARRIES Australian ISIS fanatic dubbed the
'Ginger Jihadi' in Syria - as her new husband tells MoS the terror group are
'itching to attack' the UK and praises Tunisia beach gunman

BYLINE: OMAR WAHID FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1892 words



     ·    Amira Abase travelled to Syria with two school friends from East
          London
     ·    She has married the Australian extremist, 18-year-old Abdullah Elmir
     ·    He bragged IS wouldn't stop until their flag flies over Buckingham
          Palace
     ·    Elmir has threatened that his 'brothers in the UK are itching to
          attack'


A British teenager who fled to Syria has married a notorious Islamic State
terrorist, who sent a chilling message to The Mail on Sunday threatening attacks
on Britain.

Amira Abase, 16 - who travelled to Syria with two other school friends from East
London - has married Australian extremist Abdullah Elmir.

He has bragged that IS would not stop their murderous campaign until their flag
was flying over Buckingham Palace.

Police have now launched an urgent investigation after the radicalised fighter
sent a horrific warning to this newspaper that supporters of the terror group
are 'itching to do an attack' on targets in London.

Dubbed the 'Ginger Jihadi' because of his long red hair, 18-year-old Elmir
became a poster boy for the Islamic State after he fled his home city of Sydney
last year, and later turned up in Syria, appearing in sick propaganda videos.

One of the youngest Western fighters to have joined the group, he sent a message
to The Mail on Sunday following our exclusive investigation into Abase, who we
exposed last week as trying to lure an undercover reporter to Syria to become a
jihadi bride like herself.

Elmir confirmed that he has married the British schoolgirl, who was only 15 when
she travelled to Syria via Turkey earlier this year, and told us not to contact
her again.

Boasting of his 'connections' in Britain, he warned of attacks against the UK as
'brothers that I know there... are itching to do an attack.'

He added: 'This is a direct threat.'

Elmir also callously mocked the massacre of 38 tourists by an IS-inspired gunman
on a beach in Tunisia last month, urging Allah to 'bless' murderer Seifeddine
Rezgui for carrying out the attack.

Communicating through an encrypted text message service called Kik, Elmir said:
'And on the Tunisia attacks, May Allah bless the man who slaughtered those
filthy kuffar [infidels] and May Allah grant him the highest level in Jannah
[Paradise].

'May the kuffar that this man killed taste the heat of Jahannam [hell] and their
families be reunited with them in there.'

Elmir's comments came as the Foreign Office last week warned the remaining 3,000
Britons to leave Tunisia amid increasing fears of repeat attacks on Western
tourists. The terror threat level in Britain remains severe - meaning an attack
is highly likely.

Counter-terrorism officers from the Metropolitan Police are investigating the
threat by Elmir. The Mail on Sunday is not publishing the full details for
security reasons.

Last week this newspaper how revealed schoolgirl Abase was trying to groom other
young people to flee Britain and join Islamic State.

Communicating via Kik messages with a reporter who was posing as a 16-year-old
girl from East London, Abase gave instructions on how to travel to Syria as she
had done, and suggested the reporter could become the second wife of a Western
jihadi.

Abase declined to confirm whether she was married herself, but now it appears
she was trying to persuade a young girl to marry a man who fits the description
of her own husband.

Her description of the groom as being aged 18, and half-Lebanese and
half-Australian and a 'frontline fighter' matched that of Elmir.

She said: 'Hes born muslim, not Asian thow [sic], hes half Lebanese and half
Australian.'

When asked why the groom wanted a second wife, Abase replied: 'I dunno, to
provide for her [first wife] ext [extra].'

During the exchanges with the undercover reporter on Kik, Abase also mocked the
British victims of the Tunisian massacre.

She wrote 'lol', which means 'laugh out loud,' when she was told that 30 Britons
had died in the atrocity. Abase is now thought to be living in Raqqa, capital of
the self-proclaimed Islamic caliphate, with Elmir, who made headlines worldwide
last October after travelling from Australia to Syria.

Elmir was working as a butcher in Sydney when he suddenly disappeared. Having
arrived in Syria, he appeared in an IS video wearing military fatigues and
flanked by dozens of armed fighters, boasting: 'Until we put the black flag [of
IS] on top of Buckingham Palace, until we put the black flag on top of the White
House, we will not stop, and will keep on fighting.' He also dared Western
leaders to send their troops to Syria for a ground war with the terror group,
which now controls swathes of territory across Iraq and Syria, and commands the
loyalty of affiliated terror groups in Africa and beyond.

On the Tunisia attacks, May Allah bless the man who slaughtered those filthy
kuffar [infidels] and May Allah grant him the highest level in Jannah
[paradise]. May the kuffar that this man killed taste the heat of Jahannam
[hell] and may their families be reunited with them in there   Abdullah Elmir

Former school mates at Condell Park High School have described Elmir as a
'reserved and 'easy-going' pupil, and never suspected that he would turn out to
be an extremist.

His family, who live in the multi-cultural suburb of Bankstown in western
Sydney, refused to comment on the videos at the time. But an unnamed relative
later described Elmir as 'an idiot' who had been brainwashed by IS. This
weekend, the family of Abase declined to comment on the revelation that she has
married Elmir.

But a source close to the family said they believed that she was married in
March, but did not know to whom.

Last night, Charlie Winter, a senior researcher at the counter-extremist
think-tank The Quilliam Foundation, said marriages between such young people
were not uncommon in the Islamic State. 'Islamic State permits a girl to be
married from the age of nine, but it appears for them the ideal ages [to be
married] are between 15 and 19.

'A girl can in theory stay unmarried there, but it is not the done thing, and
staying unmarried does not fit into the vision of many of the girls who go
there.

'They go to marry a jihadi warrior and have their children.

'I don't think Elmir himself groomed Amira to go to Syria, but it might have
been another woman. It appears that women groom other women, as it is considered
impious for a man to contact a woman before she has migrated to Syria.'

Born in Ethiopia, Abase spent time in Britain and Germany before her family
settled in East London when she was 11.

THE MoS REPORT THAT FLUSHED HIM OUT: CHILLING MESSAGES HE SENT TO THIS
NEWSPAPER...

Abdullah Elmir sent his chilling message to The Mail on Sunday in response to
our undercover investigation which revealed his 16-year-old British wife Amira
Abase was grooming a reporter posing as the jihadi's potential second bride.

Sending messages from Syria, Abase stated she was one of the three girls from
Tower Hamlets, East London, and revelled in the Tunisia massacre, commenting
'Lol' - meaning laugh out loud.

She issued instructions to our 'bride' to bring extra bras, as the quality in
Syria is terrible.

A bright pupil who passed three GCSEs in maths and science early at age 14, she
attended Bethnal Green Academy where she became friends with Shamima Begum, 15,
and Kadiza Sultana, 16.

But the three girls became the subject of an international manhunt after leaving
Britain for Syria in February, having flown out of Gatwick Airport to Istanbul.

They then made an 18-hour bus journey to the border town of Gaziantep in eastern
Turkey. Their families made a tearful appeal on national television, urging them
to come back - including Abase's father, Abase Hussen, 47, who blamed police and
the girls' school for doing very little to protect or stop his daughter from
leaving the UK.

But two months after Abase's disappearance, a video emerged on the internet,
which showed Mr Hussen at an extremist rally in 2012 outside the US embassy in
London.

Mr Hussen was part of a flag-burning mob in the demo organised by hate preacher
Anjem Choudary.

In April, Mr Hussen admitted taking his daughter to an extremist rally when she
was 13, and conceded that the teenager may have been influenced by the
demonstration.

In messages to The Mail on Sunday, the schoolgirl drew a bleak picture of what
happens to a Western jihadi bride when she enters Syria for the first time.

She told how the foreign women are met at the border by armed jihadis and taken
into women-only safe houses called maqqars where they remain confined for weeks,
and deprived of communication with the outside world until they choose a
husband.

She said: 'When u first come in to dawla [IS territory] ur put in to a sisters
house but u cant go out, no net and no phone allowed.'

And from her messages it appears that life for a jihadi bride is not much
better, as she explains that a woman has to seek the permission of her husband
before she can go out, or attend school.

A Scotland Yard spokesman confirmed their investigation into Amira Abase's
location in Syria was continuing.

US BRIDE OF I.S. 'COULD HAVE FLED': HOSTAGE KAYLA JEAN MUELLER TURNED DOWN
CHANCE TO GO, SAYS FORMER CELLMATE

By Nikki Murfitt

Hostage Kayla Jean Mueller, the US aid worker promised as a bride to the
notorious IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, turned down a chance to escape her
captors just weeks before she was killed, it has emerged.

Kayla's final days have been revealed by her former cellmate, a 16-year-old
known as Badia, who was able to give her harrowing testimony after managing to
flee.

Badia's story, which came to light as part of an investigation by Channel 4's
Dispatches programme, also reveals how girls as young as nine are being raped
and sold as sex slaves by members of the terror group.

Far from creating the utopia which is luring British schoolgirls to leave their
homes and families to become jihadi brides, interviews and secret filming by
documentary-makers shows how extremists are subjecting thousands of women to
beatings and gang-rape.

The ordeal of Badia, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, began
when she was taken hostage by armed IS soldiers who invaded her home town of
Sinjar in northern Iraq.

She was dragged to a house owned by al-Baghdadi and was told she would be forced
to marry an IS leader. She was beaten by gunmen who sold 'brides' as sex slaves
for £300.

Badia escaped the property through a window, but her cellmate Kayla - who she
claims was due to marry al-Baghdadi - refused to leave for fear she would be
caught and beheaded.

Tragically, 26-year-old Kayla was later killed in a Jordanian air strike.

Badia's account was passed to US authorities following Kayla's death. The US
then launched air-strikes targeting al-Baghdadi.

In transcripts given to The Mail on Sunday, Badia says she failed in an earlier
attempt to escape after being betrayed by someone loyal to IS.

Badia is one of 530 women rescued by an underground network of 100 informants
working with lawyer Khaleel al-Dakhi inside Islamic State.

He is trying to free 3,000 Yazidi women kidnapped during the IS attack in Sinjar
in August last year, and is documenting their evidence in the hope that their
attackers may eventually be charged with war crimes.


     ·    Escape From ISIS will be shown on Channel 4 on Wednesday at 10pm.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 11, 2015 Saturday 4:42 PM GMT

Second Tunisia terror attack foiled: Five ISIS extremists are shot dead in
Islamic stronghold as thousands of British tourists are evacuated

BYLINE: OLLIE GILLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 997 words



     ·    Five Islamic extremists were killed by Tunisian special forces in El
          Ktar
     ·    But three men escaped as soldiers swooped on the cell after security
          alert
     ·    Terror plot foiled as 3,000 Brits are evacuated following ISIS attack
          warning
     ·    But families said they felt safer in Tunisia as they were flown back
          to UK


Five Islamic extremists on the verge of carrying out another terrorist attack on
holidaymakers in Tunisia were yesterday shot dead.

The five men were killed by Tunisian special forces as thousands of Britons fled
the North African country after a security alert.

Holiday companies started flying home 3,000 people yesterday after the Foreign
Office warned that another ISIS attack was 'highly likely'.

Scroll down for video

Security forces tracked down eight ISIS suspects believed to be about to launch
another bloodthirsty attack on tourists, with five of the militants killed near
the town of El Ktar.

The three others escaped and are still on the run, the Daily Mirror  reported.

An intelligence source told the newspaper: 'Tunisian Special Forces acted
swiftly as the evacuation got under way to stop them launching another attack.'

Despite the foiled attack - just two weeks after 38 tourists, 30 British, were
slaughtered in Sousse - many of the holidaymakers flown home said they felt the
government had overreacted.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond was forced to defend the decision, which he
said was carefully considered and not a 'knee-jerk reaction'.

Some Britons on their way home said they felt safer in Tunisia than on home
soil.

One young couple, with their 21-month-old son, told the Daily Mail: 'We were
saying to each other that there is probably more of a chance of a terror attack
at Manchester airport than here now.

'There are Army trucks and police everywhere in Sousse. We have felt completely
safe.'

David Magliano, 52, managing director of membership at the Guardian newspaper,
had his family holiday with pregnant wife Jo, 39, and sons Oliver, seven, and
Hugo, two, cut short.

SCRAMBLE FOR CHEAP BREAKS

Tour operators are being swamped by a scramble for holidays from 300,000 Britons
who have lost trips to Tunisia.

People have complained on social media about being kept waiting for hours to get
through to helplines.

And most of the holidays left in travel agents' windows are more expensive than
those to Tunisia where packages are relatively cheap.

Thomson-First Choice and Thomas Cook have put on extra holidays to alternative
destinations such as Spain, Turkey, the Algarve, Bulgaria and Cyprus.

Britons who make independent plans to go to Tunisia have been warned the Foreign
Office advice means their travel insurance will not be valid.

Families have been complaining bitterly about the high price of replacement
holidays on the Facebook pages of Thomas Cook and Thomson.

'I do think it's definitely giving in to terrorism,' he said.

'It's like theatrical policing. It's like having loads of police on the
Underground. They are not likely to prevent anything.

'It just gives that superficial sense of reassurance.'

After landing at Heathrow this afternoon, he added that the impact would be
'devastating' for those working in Tunisia's tourism industry, on which the
country is heavily reliant.

He said: 'I feel bad, not for us having a holiday cut short by a couple of days
- that's not an issue - but the fact there are so many people directly employed
by the tourism industry, or the taxi companies or in souks, it affects so many
people.'

Tracey Caborn, 49, from Castleford, was mid-way through a break with her sister,
Maureen and their mum Debbie, was angry on arrival back in the UK.

She said: 'I think they've acted irrationally. I'm very disappointed. I would
have stayed. I never felt threatened at all. We had guards all round us. I think
we've given in to the terrorists a bit. I'm mortified by it all.

'We would have all stayed. I think they've handled it disgracefully. There was
security on the roof, on the beach, everywhere. It was fine.'

Clive Ryder, 44, an animal welfare officer from Gloucester, added: 'We're
disappointed that our holiday has been cut short. There were a lot of people
walking around with guns looking out for us and we felt safe.'

All 30 Britons killed by Rezgui last month were either Thomson or First Choice
customers, and, as a result, the companies have no guests in Tunisia at the
moment.

Following the Government's warning, Thomson and First Choice immediately
cancelled all flights to Tunisia for the summer season.

They added that 'as a precautionary measure we have taken the decision to
repatriate all British Thomson and First Choice staff currently working in
Tunisia within the next 24 hours'.

Between 2,500-3,000 British tourists are believed to be in Tunisia and around
300 independent travellers.

The timing of the change could lead to questions over why tourists have been
allowed to carry on travelling to Tunisia for two weeks since the attack.

Anyone due to travel to Tunisia with the two companies this summer will be given
the opportunity to amend their holiday free of charge or receive a full refund.

Thomas Cook has confirmed that it had cancelled all bookings to Tunisia up until
October 31.

In a statement published on the Foreign Office said: 'If you're in Tunisia and
you don't have an essential need to remain you should leave by commercial means.

'Tour operators are arranging additional flights and will be organising
departures for their customers. If you're travelling with a tour operator, you
should contact your tour operator's representative in the first instance.

'If you're travelling independently, you should make your own arrangements to
leave'

Thirty eight foreign tourists were killed in last month's terror attack,
including 30 Britons.

The Foreign Office warned that further terrorist attacks were likely to target
tourist resorts and by 'individuals unknown to the authorities' inspired by
terrorist groups on the internet.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 11, 2015 Saturday 4:42 PM GMT

Mass evacuation of British tourists from Tunisia continues with hundreds flying
home today after Foreign Office warned second ISIS terror attack was highly
likely

BYLINE: OLLIE GILLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 791 words



     ·    Hundreds more British tourists to arrive on flights back from Tunisia
          today
     ·    More than a dozen flights will bring holidaymakers home over the
          weekend
     ·    3,000 to be evacuated after Foreign Office warned attack was 'highly
          likely'
     ·    A second attack by Islamic extremists on tourists was thwarted
          yesterday


Hundreds more British tourists are expected to fly home from Tunisia today as
thousands are evacuated following another terror alert.

Around 3,000 holidaymakers will return home from the north African country in
the coming days after the Foreign Office warned that another ISIS attack was
'highly likely'.

At least five flights from Tunisia will arrive back in Britain later this
afternoon with 10 more leaving tomorrow, despite angry tourists accusing the
government of 'giving in to terrorists'.

Scroll down for video

Thomas Cook, Monarch, Jet2.com and Tunisair flights will all fly home British
tourists in the coming hours. Thomas Cook expected 900 people to be on its
flights today.

Thirty Britons were slaughtered in Sousse two weeks ago as an ISIS gunman killed
38 in the beach massacre, and another attack was foiled by Tunisian security
services yesterday.

After tour companies began flying home the 3,000 British holidaymakers
yesterday, some said the government had overreacted - leading Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond to defend the decision, which he said was carefully considered
and not a 'knee-jerk reaction'.

Gemma James, from Greenwich, south east London, was on holiday with her family
and had her trip cut short.

She said: 'Tunisia is a beautiful country, and they are lovely people there and
the hospitality is exceptional.

'It's just a terrible shame. They have lost everything we have had our holiday
cut short.

'They are a lovely people and they don't deserve this either. It's going to have
a huge impact. Lots of people are going to lose their jobs and lose everything.

'We saw our rep when we first arrived, and we saw her when we were moved to our
sister hotel, on Sunday but we haven't seen her since.

SECOND TUNISIA ATTACK FOILED

Five Islamic extremists on the verge of carrying out another terrorist attack on
holidaymakers in Tunisia were yesterday shot dead.

Security forces tracked down eight ISIS suspects believed to be about to launch
another bloodthirsty attack on tourists, with five of the militants killed near
the town of El Ktar.

The three others escaped and are still on the run, the Daily Mirror reported.

An intelligence source told the newspaper: 'Tunisian Special Forces acted
swiftly as the evacuation got under way to stop them launching another attack.'

'Thomas Cook just haven't kept us informed. We were told at 11.30pm last night
that we would be leaving via a letter.

'The whole thing was a mess. People are being sent all over the country to get
home. It's a disgusting situation.

Jamie Lee, from Essex, who was traveling with her husband Clive said: 'It all
happened so fast.

'We were during to fly home tonight and were we up in our room packing and then
there was a bang on the door and they said they were getting all the English out
and we've got an hour to get out.

'We thought something bad was going to happen. I was quite nervous to be honest.
But we didn't really get told much so it was quite scary.

'Before we were told to leave we all felt fine. The holiday was fantastic and
the people were fantastic. I loved it, if it wasn't for this it would have been
the perfect holiday.

'It was scary not knowing what to expect and not knowing what was happening. I
think government made the right decision.'

One young couple, with their 21-month-old son, told the Daily Mail yesterday:
'We were saying to each other that there is probably more of a chance of a
terror attack at Manchester airport than here now.

'There are Army trucks and police everywhere in Sousse. We have felt completely
safe.'

David Magliano, 52, managing director of membership at the Guardian newspaper,
had his family holiday with pregnant wife Jo, 39, and sons Oliver, seven, and
Hugo, two, cut short.

'I do think it's definitely giving in to terrorism,' he said.

'It's like theatrical policing. It's like having loads of police on the
Underground. They are not likely to prevent anything.

'It just gives that superficial sense of reassurance.'

After landing at Heathrow this afternoon, he added that the impact would be
'devastating' for those working in Tunisia's tourism industry, on which the
country is heavily reliant.

He said: 'I feel bad, not for us having a holiday cut short by a couple of days
- that's not an issue - but the fact there are so many people directly employed
by the tourism industry, or the taxi companies or in souks, it affects so many
people.'

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 11, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Second terrorist attack in Tunisia is now 'highly likely'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 406 words


THOUSANDS of tourists from Greater Manchester who booked getaways in Tunisia are
trying to find out if they will still have a summer holiday.

It follows a Foreign and Commonwealth warning that another terror attack is
'highly likely'.

Hundreds of holidaymakers already in the country were flown back to Manchester
on two charter flights by Thomas Cook, with many more expected to follow over
the weekend.

Here we answer four key questions regarding holidays to Tunisia: Why do I need
to change my travel plans? THE Foreign and Commonwealth Office has changed its
level of advice for Tunisia and is now advising against all but essential
travel.

It follows the terrorist attack in Sousse, which killed 38 holidaymakers
including 30 Britons.

I've booked a package holiday to Tunisia. What should I do now? THOSE with
holidays booked within the next 48 hours are advised to contact their travel
company. If you have booked a package, you will be entitled to a refund or an
alternative holiday.

If you are not travelling in the next 48 hours, you should still speak to your
travel company and follow their advice.

Abta says that those with bookings beyond the summer are being advised to wait
until nearer their departure time to contact their travel company as the
situation is 'still fluid.'.

What are the major holiday companies saying about it? THOMAS Cook has cancelled
all bookings to Tunisia up to October 31.

Passengers will be able to receive a full refund or amend their holiday to
another destination with no administration fees until October 31.

Thomson and First Choice have also cancelled all fights to Tunisia. Customers
due to travel up to October 31 can change their holiday free of charge to any of
the firm's destinations currently on sale, or will be able to get a refund.

Monarch has cancelled all flights to Enfidha and all customers who have booked
to travel there will receive a full credit for their flight plus 10 per cent to
be used within 12 months, or a full refund.

Alternatively, they will have the choice of a change of www.destination.No fees
will be charged but any fare difference will be payable.

EasyJet has cancelled its remaining flights to Monastir. It is allowing
passengers a free flight transfer on any date on an alternative route, or a full
refund.

What IF I still want to go to Tunisia? HOLIDAYMAKERS are being advised that
travelling out to Tunisia now is likely to invalidate their travel insurance
policy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flowers at the scene of the terrorist attack in Tunisia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 11, 2015 Saturday 1:44 PM GMT

Feared 2nd Tunisia terror attack foiled as 5 suspected terrorists killed in gun
battle with special forces;
The national guard and army operation, which took place near the town of El Ktar
in the Gafsa region comes less than a week after Tunisia's government declared a
state of emergency

BYLINE: By Paul Byrne

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Security forces in Tunisia have killed five suspected extremists in the central
region of the country, the Tunisian Interior Ministry has said.

The national guard and army operation, which took place near the town of El Ktar
in the Gafsa region comes less than a week after Tunisia's government declared a
state of emergency following a gunman's attack in the beach resort of Sousse
that left 38 tourists dead - mostly Britons.

Ministry spokesman Walid Louguini said a gunfight erupted as a special national
guard unit tracked and chased eight suspected extremists in the mountainous
Ouled Bouomrane area, near Gafsa's mining zone.

He said the operation was continuing.

The UK has urged all British tourists to leave Tunisia, saying an extremist
attack was "highly likely" despite enhanced security measures.

Tunisia terror attack timeline

Tunisian prime minister Habib Essid, speaking in a parliamentary debate, said
his government "did everything in our power to protect (British) citizens and
their interests, as well as those of all other countries".

The government has carried out 7,000 security operations since an attack on the
Bardo museum in Tunis in March, arresting 1,000 people and stopping 15,000 young
people from travelling to fight jihad abroad, Mr Essid said, and was working to
remedy "shortcomings."

"Our country is going through a delicate situation, and is in danger," he said.

Many Western European tour operators suspended trips to Tunisia following the
Sousse killings.

France's Foreign Ministry urged its citizens in Tunisia to be "particularly
vigilant" but stopped short of urging departures.

Germany, two of whose citizens died in the Sousse shooting, made no immediate
change to its travel advice.

Ireland, Denmark, Belgium and Finland all discouraged citizens from
non-essential travel to Tunisia.

Such decisions are a new wound for Tunisia's struggling tourism industry and for
the nation's reputation as it tries to solidify its new democracy in a volatile
region.

The attack on the Bardo museum left 22 dead, mostly foreign tourists.

British Embassy officials are helping with departures of British tourists at
Enfidha airport, but would not talk about the ramifications of the government's
warning.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

The head of the Islamist party Ennahda's group in parliament, Noureddine Bhiri,
called the British decision "manifestly damaging to Tunisia and its democratic
process".

A French diplomat said French, British and German governments will work with
Tunisia, notably in improving airport security and protecting tourist sites and
foreign companies.

The diplomat said Western experts would meet next week in Tunis to discuss
security measures.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 11, 2015 Saturday 12:49 PM GMT

Tunisia terror alert: Official travel advice for Mediterranean holiday
destinations after beach massacre;
Are you planning a holiday this summer? Here is the latest Foreign Office advice
for other destinations around the Mediterranean after the terror attack in
Tunisia

BYLINE: By Dean Kirby

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 643 words


Thousands of holidaymakers have flown home from Tunisia after the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office warned another terror attack is 'highly likely'.

Here is the latest Foreign Office advice for other destinations around the
Mediterranean

Turkey: The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all travel to within
10km of the border with Syria. It also advises against all but essential travel
to the six provinces that line the border.

It says more than 2.5m Britons visit Turkey every year. Most visits are trouble
free. However, there is a high threat from terrorism in Turkey. The advice says:
"Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect places visited by foreigners."
Holidaymakers are advised to 'exercise caution'.

Morocco: Around 500,000 British nationals visit Morocco every year and most
visits are trouble free, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says. It says
travellers should respect local laws and customs at all times. It says there is
a general threat of terrorism, with a growing number of Moroccans belonging to
international terrorist organisations operating in Syria and Iraq. It says
increased security measures may be seen in some areas.

Egypt: The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all travel to North
Sinai due to continued terrorist attacks on police and security forces. It is
advising against all but essential travel to a large part of South Sinai, within
50km of the Libyan border and the area west of the Nile Valley.

This does not include tourist areas along the Nile River or the Red Sea resorts
of Sharm el Sheikh and Hurghada. Holidaymakers are told to be vigilant at all
times to the threat of terrorism.

France: There remains a 'high' threat of terrorism in France, according to the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office.

Its advice says: "Due to the ongoing threats to France by Islamist terrorist
groups, and recent French military intervention against ISIS, the French
government has warned the public to be extra vigilant and reinforced its own
domestic and overseas security measures."

Algeria: The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising against all travel to
within 450km of the Mali and Niger borders, with the exception of Tindouf town
and Tamanrasset city, as well as 100km of the Mauritanian border, and 100km of
the Libya and Tunisia borders south of the town of Souk Ahras.

It is advising against all but essential travel to Tamanrasset city, In Amenas,
Tindouf town and three provinces east of Algiers.

Spain: The terrorist threat also remains high in Spain, according to the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office.

It says attacks could be discriminate, including places visited by foreigners.
It says: "In 2015, Spanish police have disrupted a number of groups suspected of
recruiting individuals to travel to Syria and Iraq. Some of them expressed an
intention to carry out attacks in Europe."

Libya: Travellers are being advised by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
against all travel to Libya due to the ongoing fighting, threat of terrorist
attacks and kidnap against foreigners, including from ISIS-affiliated
extremists.

The threat of terrorism is said to be 'high'. British nationals have already
been urged to leave Libya. The British Embassy in Tripoli has temporary closed
and is unable to provide consular assistance.

Greece: Travellers heading to Greece are being advised by the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office that banking services including credit card processing and
the servicing of cash machines may become limited at short notice.

It comes after the government of Greece announced that banks will remain closed
until July 13. Passengers are being urged to make sure they have sufficient
euros in cash to cover the duration of their stay. There are no restrictions on
taking unspent euros out of Greece at the end of your stay.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                             July 11, 2015 Saturday

Fitness trainer sparks outrage by saying London and Tunisia terror attacks
should inspire people to get fit'

BYLINE: Vicki Newman

LENGTH: 490  words


A fitness trainer from South Tyneside sparked outrage when he suggested that the
London and Tunisia terror attacks should inspire people to get fit.

Luke Harrison, who runs Total Fitness Tribe, in Commercial Road, South Shields,
posted a video on his Facebook page asking people if the "London and Tunisia
bombings" could "inspire you to get fit and healthy".

As well as discussing the recent shooting in Tunisia, which saw 30 British
holidaymakers murdered, he also talks about it being 10 years since the 7/7
attacks in London, where 52 people were killed and 700 injured after bombings on
the tube and bus service.

In the video, the 29-year-old asks people if they could run for their lives if
they had to.

The head of a victims' support group said people involved in the tragedies would
be "outraged".

Dave Hines, founder of the Jarrow-based National Victims' Association, said: "I
think he has shown absolutely no compassion or thought for the victims of these
tragedies or their families.

"He's trying to make a profit from these awful incidents and anyone that gives
him money after this is just as bad."

He added: "I think he needs to be taken to task. I know people who are working
with people who were in Tunisia and their families and they'd be outraged by
this."

Mr Harrison said: "The point wasn't to offend anyone deliberately, that wasn't
what I was saying.

"I was just talking about it because it's a relevant subject and it made me
think about what people would do if they ever had to run away from something
like that. Would they be able to do it?

"I wasn't saying that the people would have survived if they'd been in shape.

"Tragically, they probably wouldn't have.

"What I was saying is that people should be properly prepared so if, God forbid,
something like that ever happened to them they'd be physically able to run away
or help other people who needed it."

Mr Harrison claimed his partner has a family member who was in Tunisia and
experienced it first-hand.

He added: "I wasn't being deliberately disrespectful.

"I've heard first-hand the stories of what happened in Tunisia, and it was
horrific.

"People have taken the wrong message from the video.

"I also talked about people being stabbed or raped and the message was simply
about if you could do something to protect yourself.

"I wasn't trying to profit out of what's happened or offend anyone. My job is to
help people and that's what I try to do every day when I post these videos.  I
really regret that people took the video the wrong way."

Mr Harrison began the video by shouting "boom".

He said: "If anybody watches my videos they'll know that I always say that at
the beginning of my videos.

"That's the way I always do it and I didn't think anything of it until after I'd
posted it."

Mr Harrison later contacted the Gazette to say he had deleted the video. They
were removed from his personal Facebook account but not from the Total Fitness
Tribe - South Shields page.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        July 12, 2015 Sunday 4:00 PM GMT

Jihadists have planned second terror attack in Tunisia TOMORROW, security
experts fear

BYLINE: Siba Jackson

LENGTH: 388 words


BLOOD-THIRSTY jihadists have planned a second terrorist attack in Tunisa
TOMORROW, according to security chiefs.

Spies believe extremists will target tourists to mark the Night of Power - the
most important date during the holy month of Ramadan.

Radicals believe the date - the 27th night of fasting, also known as Laylat
al-Qadr - is when the gates of heaven opened for jihadi warriors to enter
paradise.

The chilling warning comes just two weeks after the Tunisia beach massacre which
claimed the lives of 38 innocent holidaymakers - including 30 Brits.

Tunisia's government declared a state of emergency after the bloodbath at the
hands of gunman Selfeddine Rezgul.

And it has also emerged today that Rezgul trained at the SAME Islamic State
training camp as merciless executioner Jihadi John.

Tunisian security source

Speaking in Tunisian capital, Tunis, a security source said: "Security forces
will be on high alert on the 27th day.

"Jihadist groups may wish to hijack the celebrations as a way to show the world
that they mean business.

"The intelligence services are currently monitoring jihadist sources both online
and offline in a high state of alert.

"The ongoing State of Emergency will remain in place and security patrols have
been increased."

It comes as the Foreign Office airlifted thousands of Brit tourists amid
concerns a new wave of attacks was "highly likely".

Since the Bardo Museum shootings in Tunisia in March, cops have arrested more
than 1,000 Islamic State supporters and banned 15,000 more from travelling
overseas.

Two years ago, the USA closed its embassies in Arab countries including Tunisia
during the Night of Power.

And security forces in Lebanon also foiled a secret plot by Syrian rebels to
murder Shiite Muslims during the celebrations.

Tunisian special forces shot dead five suspected jihadists who were on the verge
of attacking Brit sunseekers on Friday.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Holiday Brits return home in
Tunisia terror evacuation - but they're not happy WATCH: Chilling footage
emerges of Tunisian gunman walking along beach swinging AK47 Five extremists
shot dead by special forces amid fears of new Tunisia hols terror attack Jihadi
John and Tunisia beach gunman trained at the SAME Islamic State terror camp

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 12, 2015 Sunday 8:49 PM GMT

Hundreds of Brits still in Tunisia despite fresh terrorist attack 'highly
likely';
At least 250 Britons are believed to remain in the country, despite Foreign
Office warning against all but essential travel

BYLINE: By Camilla Turner

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


Hundreds Britons are thought to remain in Tunisia, despite the Foreign Office
warning to leave urgently because a fresh terrorist attack is "highly likely".

At least 250 Britons are thought to have defied the government's travel advice
for the country <em class="bold">which changed on Friday to warn against all but
essential travel. <em class="bold" />

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) said that around 90 per cent of
tourists in Tunisia were on holiday with travel companies, meaning that those
remaining in the country are likely to be independent travellers or British
nationals living or working there.

Over the weekend, some 2,750 tourists were flown home on specially chartered
flights put on by travel companies.

Thomas Cook, which has cancelled all future bookings to Tunisia up to October
31, said it flew home 2,000 customers since Friday.

Meanwhile, Monarch Airlines, which has cancelled all flights to Enfidha in
Tunisia for the rest of the summer season, flew 750 Britons home over the
weekend.

Thomson and First Choice, the travel company which all of the 30 Britons killed
in lasts month's terrorist attack had booked through, said that they had already
evacuated all their customers in Tunisia before the weekend.

The updated Foreign Office advice was issued two weeks after Selfeddine Rezgui,
a gunman backed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil), slaughtered 38
people, including 30 Britons, in Sousse.

· Tunisia building wall to prevent travel to Libyan jihad camps

· Britons told to leave Tunisia amid fears of a fresh terror attack

The Foreign Office faced questions over why it had not changed its travel advice
in the immediate aftermath of the Sousse atrocity.

Foreign Office sources said it had become apparent that Rezgui was not working
alone. It is feared that the Tunisian authorities cannot adequately protect
tourists from another attack.

The decision to change the travel advice for Tunisia was taken after a series of
arrests in the country made it clear that the Sousse massacre was not a
lone-wolf attack and that a larger group was behind it, sources said.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 13, 2015 Monday

Security forces need training to handle terror attacks - Chadian rights activist

LENGTH: 252 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 13 July

[Presenter] The latest terror attack committed by a man wearing a burqa left 15
people dead and 80 others injured in the central market of N'Djamena, Chad, on
Saturday [11 July] morning.

The government banned the wearing of the veil for security reasons. Authorities
have maintained firmness on this and said any offenders will be arrested. Human
rights activists are worried of possible excesses by the police.

Valentin Bardal Oyamta, the secretary-general of the Chadian league of Human
rights had this to say:

[Oyamta] Chad must become a lawful state. Chadian security forces need to be
trained on how to handle this situation in order to avoid causing major damages
within the community because that is what we fear.

We have seen that when certain police officers conduct searches, some are not
kind with people and that causes a certain nervousness. We also understand that
security forces are monitored but that is not a reason to put in to question the
principle of protection and maintenance of human rights.

If the people feel that they are victims of terrorism, and on the other hand
overwhelmed by security forces, which can cause a crisis. It is for that reason
that security forces need to be well-trained to avoid radicalisation and lack of
collaboration from the people with the police.

In my opinion, this matter needs to be looked into.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 13 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 13, 2015 Monday 11:30 AM GMT

'We've predicted terror attacks' Psychic twins possessed by ghosts who foresee
future

BYLINE: Laura Mitchell

LENGTH: 684 words


TWIN sisters claim they are both possessed by ghosts who take control of their
hands and write eerie messages predicting the future.

Identical twins Terry and Linda Jamieson are haunted by spirits who take over
their fingers and channel their thoughts on paper.

The 50-year-old sisters claim they had predicted numerous events including the
9/11 terror attacks, the cyber attack on Sony, the Baltimore riots in the US and
the Boston Marathon bombing.

The duo also talk to dead celebrities including Princess Diana and Michael
Jackson, using their psychic powers.

Terry and Linda started ghost writing, which they call automatic writing, in
1990.

And they now perform yearly predictions in January.

Linda said: "The first time I stared automatic writing I was just in a
restaurant.

"I started writing on the napkin. It was this medieval text.

"I didn't know where it was coming from at first but it was clear it wasn't me.

"It was so magical.

"Now we do it every day. It's like a calling."

The red-headed twins grew up in Pennsylvania, USA and had a happy childhood.

Aged 20, they started having nightmares which they claimed predicted future
events.

"We would have horrible visions while we were asleep," said Lynda.

"We had nightmares about the tsunami in 2004 for years before it happened."

Linda Jamieson

Aged 25, Linda discovered she could channel spirits for automatic writing.

She said: "I was accessing it from another dimension.

"It's strange because you are conscious of what you're doing.

"Terry watched me doing it and tried herself.

"Then she realised she could also do it."

When the twins realised the powers they had, they worked hard to hone their
skills.

"We've been developing this for years," Linda said. "To begin with we'd be doing
it every day."

"That's how we're able to get such specific predictions," she added.

The twins will both write the exact same information, even if they're in
different rooms.

Related articles Psychic Sally on ghosts, heaven and dealing with sceptics:
'I'll never stop using my gift' My love rival is a GHOST: 'She launched herself
at me and growled' Disabled woman gets £65k payout after NHS staff cut up doll
she believed was her child

Terry said: "We're so linked that we're able to do it through each other.

"We broadcast them in January so people aren't able to dispute our claims.

"It's empirical evidence.

"We do this at the same level as science.

"We regularly record our predictions and go onto the radio to tell them.

"We publish them so they're time-stamped."

In their predictions for 2014, the twins said there would be riots in Baltimore.

In November 2014, people took to the streets to protest the killings of several
black men by police officers.

They also predicted there would be a terrorist attack in Boston in 2013.

This was the year that a bomb was detonated during the Boston Marathon.

The twins predicted the 9/11 attacks in New York on air on a radio station in
2000, a year before the tragedy.

Terry said: "We were on the radio in November 1999 and we said there would be a
major terrorist attack on the World Trade Centres.

"We said it would happen before 2010 and thousands would perish.

"We also said there would be attacks against other federal buildings.

"People were amazed by the detail we gave."

The sisters do not charge for their yearly predictions and say they are doing a
"public service."

"We do have private sessions with some people where we charge but not many,"
said terry.

The twins have now written their third book speaking to celebrities who have
passed away called Died Too Young.

Linda said: "We spoke to Michael Jackson, Princess Diana and other icons who
died too young.

"We asked them what really happened to them.

"Princess Diana said she had chosen her destiny.

"She was thrilled with Prince George and Princess Charlotte being born.

"One of us would channel the spirit and the other would perform the automatic
writing."

The twins make hundreds of predictions at the beginning of each year.

"We have so many of them occurring," she said. "After the 9/11 predictions, we
finally had people taking us seriously."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 13, 2015 Monday 10:12 AM GMT

Airdrie family caught up in Tunisian terror attack speak about "worst
experience" of their lives;
YVONNE and John Walker were confined to their Sousse hotel room for two days
along with their young daughter after gunman opened fire on beach.

BYLINE: By Ian Bunting

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 835 words


A badly shaken Gartlea family caught up in the horrific terrorist attack in
Tunisia have described their holiday nightmare as "the worst experience" of
their lives.

Terrified Yvonne and John Walker and their six-year-old daughter Autumn were
left confined to their Sousse hotel room for two days after a crazed gunman
opened fire on sunbathing tourists last Friday morning.

Fortunately, the family were on a boat out at sea when the tragic events
unfolded, but their already shredded nerves were rocked even further when Yvonne
was confronted by a machine-gun wielding local less than 48 hours after the
massacre.

Speaking from the safety of her home yesterday, Yvonne, 31, told the Advertiser:
"On Sunday morning I was stood talking to an English couple and a guy walked in
to the main reception with an AK-47 in his hands.

"He was dressed like a holidaymaker, wearing shorts and a t-shirt, and there was
a man behind him laughing. If it had been a terrorist I'd have been shot and
killed where I stood because he was right there and looking straight at me.

"I then found out the hotel security guards had been told to disguise themselves
as holidaymakers. But that just made it even more difficult to know who to
trust.

"It was very frightening because it's not as if it was a police officer with a
uniform on and we were already on edge."

The Walker family were just five days into a 10-day holiday to the North African
country when more than 30 Britons were shot and killed on the beach at the
popular Port El Kantaoui resort.

They were staying in the hotel next to the Imperial Marhaba, where the shocking
atrocity took place, and had more than one lucky escape, as Yvonne, a
hairdresser at Liam's Hair Studio in Airdrie, explained: "Our hotel was right on
the beach, but we considered booking the Imperial Marhaba beforehand and all
sorts of things go through your mind, like it would have been very possible we
could've been sunbathing on the beach at the time.

"We were out at sea on a boat when the shootings happened so we didn't see or
hear anything but were told you could hear the gun shots from our hotel.

"My mum was on the phone crying while telling us what had happened and we just
couldn't believe it.

"Autumn didn't know anything about what was going on. When we got back to the
hotel afterwards she was just upset that we wouldn't let her go on the pedalos.

"We managed to shield her from what was happening pretty well but she knew I was
ill as I was just so anxious.

"We were in the room for most of the time from Friday. We went down to the pool
but you just couldn't relax at all.

"Every time someone moved a sun lounger you thought it was a gun going off. We
didn't even want to go down and eat.

"If it had been just John and I it wouldn't have been as bad but my main concern
was for my wee girl."

Prior to the tragedy the family had been having a wonderful holiday.

Yvonne continued: "We were really enjoying ourselves. The people were lovely and
the weather was really nice.

"But after the terrible shootings our time there was horrific and by far the
worst experience of our lives.

"This was our first time in Tunisia and we definitely wouldn't go back ; it
would be far too difficult after what we went through."

Yvonne, John, 35, and their young daughter's troubles didn't end there, though,
as they endured an anxious wait to return home.

But thanks to the intervention of Airdrie & Shotts MP Neil Gray, the family
arrived back at their Monkland Street home on Monday night.

Yvonne went on: "We weren't due to come home until Wednesday but wanted back as
soon as possible.

"We didn't care about the money, we just wanted home but were having issues
because we booked the holiday through Teletext.

"My mum spent two days on the phone trying to help us but was getting nowhere
and decided to get in touch with Neil Gray.

"We can't thank Neil enough as he was down in London and made some calls, taking
only 45 minutes to get us on a flight home.

"We found out at 10pm on Sunday we were going to be on a flight home on Monday
morning, put on by Thomas Cook.

"We are so glad to be home and it was great to see our family and friends. It
was a huge relief to them and us.

"The family owe Neil Gray so much and we thank him from the bottom of our
hearts."

Mr Gray added: "I sent an email to the chief executive of Thomas Cook and the
Foreign Secretary, Philip Hammond, on Sunday night as it was a situation that
didn't lend itself to office hours.

"I also posted on my social media accounts to see if other people were in the
same position - and the pressure paid off.

"I can understand Thomas Cook's position that the holiday was booked through
Teletext, but in a situation like this the airline should be going above and
beyond to get people home.

"I was very pleased that the situation was resolved and the Walker family got
home safe and sound.

"It's outrageous that the family had to go to their MP with this matter, as it
should have been dealt with sooner, but I was more than happy to help and only
doing my job."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 9:59 PM GMT

Second Boston terror attack foiled after police captain's son 'inspired by ISIS'
arrested

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 425 words


A POLICE captain's son has been charged with plotting to carry out an Islamic
State inspired massacre at a US school.

The Napanese Beaver

Alexander Ciccolo has been charged with plotting to bomb a college cafeteria

Alexander Ciccolo, whose father is a captain in the Boston police, is accused of
planning to set off pressure-cooker bombs at a college cafeteria.

The 23-year-old, who used the alias Ali Al Amriki online, was said to be
mentally ill and to have become obsessed with Islam.

Documents filed with the US courts stated: "The defendant told [an operative]
that the attack would be concentrated in the college dorms and cafeteria and
would include executions of students broadcast live via the internet."

It was reported that his father, policeman Robert, first tipped authorities off
about his son's interest in ISIS.

FBI agents then started watching the youngster and saw him buy a pressure cooker
from a Walmart store shortly before his arrest.

Pressure-cooker bombs were used in the attacks on the Boston Marathon in 2013,
killing three and injuring 264 people. Bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was sentenced to
death for the terrorist atrocity earlier this year.

Investigators had also received a tip last September that Ciccolo wanted to go
overseas to fight for ISIS.

The tipster said Ciccolo "had a long history of mental illness" and that a
Facebook profile under his name indicated "he was interested in martyrdom".

When officers moved in to arrest Ciccolo at his apartment they found him heavily
armed.

US Justice Department

Cicollo was said to be heavily armed when police arrived to arrest him

In US court documents, prosecutors say that several "partially constructed"
Molotov cocktails were found in the flat, along with two machetes and a long,
curved knife.

He had also recently taken delivery of two Glock handguns, a Colt AR-15 rifle
and a SigArms high-powered rifle that he had asked for from an undercover agent,
officials said.

He also told the agent of his desire to desire to travel to another state and
attack bars and a police station by using a pressure-cooker bomb. According to
the charges he later changed his plan and decided to attack a college cafeteria
instead.

A statement from FBI Special Agent Paul Ambrogio said the partially built bombs
contained "shredded Styrofoam soaking in motor oil" which was designed to stick
to people's skin.

When Ciccolo was taken to a hospital for treatment he allegedly stabbed a nurse
in the head with a pen.

He will appear before a detention hearing in Springfield, Massachusetts on July
14.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 6:32 PM GMT

ISIS in the skies: Fears of 9/11-style attack as two commercial pilots join
terror group

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 471 words


FEARS of a new 9/11-style terror attack on the West have been raised after two
commercial pilots were revealed to have joined Islamic State .

GETTY·FACEBOOK

Ridwan Agustin, pictured, is one of two pilots feared capable of carrying out a
9/11-style attack

The men were employed by separate international airlines and were flying as
recently as March, Australian authorities said.

Tommy Abu Alfatih and Ridwan Agustin, both Indonesian pilots working for
high-profile airlines AirAsia and Garuda Indonesia, developed links with the
jihadi group through social media.

A leaked document from the Australia Federal Police seen by Western security
services stresses the threat to flight security the pair could pose.

References to the September 11 attacks in 2001 - or "past global events" -
suggest authorities feared a copycat attack of a similar type and scale to those
on New York and Washington almost fourteen years ago.

FACEBOOK

Tommy Abu Alfatih was employed until March when he was fired by his airline

Worryingly, Abu Alfatih was still employed as a pilot up until just a few months
ago, although his whereabouts are now unknown.

Agustin was sacked by AirAsia after he began showing signs of extremist
influences, including posting supportive messages on ISIS websites and messaging
foreign fighters in the Middle East.

Recent photos of the radicalised pilot show him wearing Islamic dress and
sporting a long beard.

"The content he posts online has also seen a change from innocuous to a likely
radicalised persuasion," the report said.

Agustin is now believed to be in the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa in Syria.

The pair also followed various Facebook pages which posted graphic ISIS
executions.

"Both appear to be influenced by pro-ISIS elements including extremist online
propaganda by well-known radical Indonesia outlets and a suspected foreign
terrorist fighter who is likely to be either in Syria or Iraq," the report
warns.

FACEBOOK

Agustin piloted AirAsia passenger jets across the world Related articles  WATCH:
RAF Reaper drone blasts ISIS armoured truck with Hellfire...  Why are we
'embarrassed' to fly the Cross of St George but the...

It added: "Pilots, air crew and others with access to and within the aviation
environment can pose obvious threats if these persons are radicalised.

"Their access and knowledge of security and safety regimes provides the ability
to attempt attacks as witnessed by past global events.

"It is noted that a recent edition of the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire actively
encouraged attacks within the aviation environment."

GETTY

Garuda Indonesia employed one of the men

The Indonesian government said that officials had been monitoring the activities
of the pilots.

Australian police declined to comment on the report.

GETTY

Agustin graduated from AirAsia's flight academy in 2010
brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 6:23 PM GMT

Special forces kill FIVE suspects feared to be plotting ANOTHER Tunisia terror
attack

BYLINE: Selina Sykes

LENGTH: 854 words


FIVE terrorists feared to be on the verge of launching another terror attack in
Tunisia were killed by special forces yesterday as hundreds more Britons return
home.

AFP

British tourists said they felt secure and security was tight in Tunisia after
the attack in Sousse

The plot was foiled as up to 3,000 British holidaymakers were urged by the
Government to flee the north African country amid fears of another terrorist
strike, just two weeks since 30 Britons were slaughtered at the Sousse beach
resort.

Five men were shot dead by Tunisian forces yesterday near the town of El Ktar as
extra flights were laid on by UK travel companies to evacuate customers.

A unit of crack troops foiled the terror plot after tracking down eight Islamic
State suspects they believed were about to launch an attack.

Three escaped and were still on the run last night.

But British tourists whose holidays were cut short accused the Government of
giving in to terrorism and of overreacting by advising them to leave after
updating the terror attack alert in Tunisia to "highly likely".

Many arriving on flights back to Britain said they had felt safe and security
was tight.

Les Aston, 61, from Shrewsbury, said: "They let us go out there and now we've
been brought back home. It makes no sense.

"The staff were in tears when we left the hotel. Tourism in Tunisia will be
ruined."

Tracy Caburn, from Pontefract, West Yorkshire, said: "It's a disgrace. We felt
safe. We would've stayed there. We didn't feel threatened at all.

"There were guards on the roof, the gates, the beach. We wanted to stay."

Related articles  Tunisia terror threat: 'Disappointed' Britons criticise
Government...  WATCH: Tunisia gunman walks calmly down beach with AK-47 after...

Other disappointed holidaymakers said the signal to leave came so quickly they
thought another terrorist attack was happening.

Kevin Tappin, from Essex, said: "We were in the swimming pool and they all came
running out saying you've got to evacuate.

"You thought, 'Oh my God is there another attack?'"

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond defended the repatriation of tourists, after
Tunisian officials warned the move could lead to the collapse of the country's
tourism industry.

The Conservative minister said the Government had been careful not to act in a
"knee-jerk manner" and that Britain will continue to work with Tunisia on
improving security.

He added that the Foreign Office hoped to downgrade the travel advice "in the
not too distant future".

AFP

Thousands of Britons have returned home from holidays in Tunisia

However, his fellow Tory MP and Foreign Affairs Select Committee chairman
Crispin Blunt today claimed he would still be prepared to go on holiday to
Tunisia.

Mr Hammond will be grilled over his decision to order a mass evacuation of
Tunisia by Mr Blunt's parliamentary committee later this month.

Former minister Mr Blunt said he had not seen the intelligence which prompted Mr
Hammond to change the advice but added that other countries including France had
not taken the same action.

"It's obviously a matter of judgment rather than crystal clear," he told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

He also pointed to the UK's own "very high" terror threat level as well as
severe alerts in "other countries where British tourists go".

But Mr Blunt added that the new Tunisia warning meant "no one can get insurance,
the major tour operators then are forced to evacuate their people there, it
becomes very difficult for individuals then to exercise their own individual
judgment"

"But on the basis of what I know, would I be prepared to go myself? Yes."

GETTY

30 Britons were killed in the beach massacre in Sousse two weeks ago

Tunisia's ambassador in London, Nabil Ammar, criticised Mr Hammond's decision
for "damaging" Tunisia's tourism sector, which would "put so many people out of
work and on the streets".

He added: "One of the sources of terrorism is lack of hope. It is not the only
motor of it but it is one of the very important origins."

Foreign tourism accounts for around 15 per cent of Tunisia's Gross Domestic
Product .

The Foreign Office insisted it acted to protect Britons from another strike
based on information received over the last 24 hours, two weeks after gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui killed 30 UK tourists.

A source said: "For the Foreign Office to order Brits to evacuate on this scale
is extremely unusual.

"It was in reaction to very credible information that more Brits were at risk of
attack."

A Thomas Cook spokesman said it was "strongly advising" customers in Tunisia to
return to the UK over the weekend, while Monarch Airlines is arranging to
repatriate all its customers "back to the UK as soon as possible."

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice have no remaining customers in the
country and have cancelled all flights to Tunisia for the summer season.

Related articles RAF poised as British nationals told to LEAVE Tunisia over
fears of ANOTHER terror attack Parents of Tunisia terror attack gunman claim he
was 'FRAMED' over Sousse beach massacre Tunisia attack: Hundreds gather to say
emotional farewell to 'devoted' couple  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 6:19 PM GMT

Gym owner apologises after telling people terror attacks could 'inspire you to
get fit'

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 523 words


A FITNESS instructor has used the Tunisia beach massacre and 7/7 bombings to
sign up more people to his classes - so they can be fit enough to run from
terrorists.

HEMEDIA

Luke Harrison said the Tunisia beach killer Seifeddine Rezgui to 'inspire'
people to get fit'

Luke Harrison has been forced to apologise for telling people the London and
Tunisia atrocities could "inspire you to get fit and healthy".

But the 29-year-old is still maintaining his message is valid despite being
accused of trying to profit from the tragedies which took a total of 90 lives.

The message, in a video on the Facebook page for his business Total Fitness
Tribe in South Shields, Tyne and Wear, starts with Mr Harrison shouting "Boom"
at his viewers.

He then asks: "If you had to run for you f****** life, could you do it?

"At the end of the day, what if you had to jump over a wall, what if you had to
sprint round a corner, what if you had to do something fast, pull yourself up,
push away from somebody?"

Related articles  United in grief: Britain remembers victims of Tunisia
terror...  7/7 anniversary: Ten years on - police, survivors and passersby...

The video, which has now been removed after condemnation, ends: "So why the f***
aren't you looking after yourself? Why are you not keeping fit, healthy and
strong, just in case?"

Dave Hines, of the National Victims' Association, said he had shown "absolutely
no compassion or thought" for the victims of the terrorist attacks and their
families.

IG

Holidaymakers in Tunisia took part in a minute's silence after the beach terror
attack

He added: "He's trying to make a profit from these awful incidents and anyone
that gives him money after this is just as bad.

"I think he needs to be taken to task."

In a response video unashamed Mr Harrison said: "I related it back to the recent
Tunisia attacks and it was the anniversary of the London bombings.

"A lot of people took the message totally out of context, it was never intended
to be disrespectful or saying these people would survive if they were fit or
anything. That's outrageous, it's ridiculous.

IG

Luke Harrison said sorry in this video but still stands by his message

"The point of the message was to say 'this happened and if something was to
happen like that again don't you think you would be in a little bit of a better
position to help yourself and those around you who you care about if you were
physically in the best position you could be in?'

"Because situations like that do require you to run, jump, sprint, push, pull,
whatever.

"So it begs the question - would you be able to?

"My message is only to help people. If I was in it for profit I wouldn't be
standing here now giving this message.

"I understand if you took this the wrong way and if it did upset or offend
anyone here is my public apology for that - I'm sorry.

"It was not meant that way, I swear to God."

Related articles Outrage as British man 'threatened with deportation' - but he's
never left the country Tunisia terror attack: Briton widowed and unable to speak
begs for wedding ring in note Tunisia gunman was high on COCAINE during killing
spree as pics emerge of his dead body

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 1:01 PM GMT

Fears of imminent British terror attack as police see surge in smuggled
submachine guns

BYLINE: Jake Burman

LENGTH: 416 words


WEAPONS capable of firing up to 850 rounds per minute are being smuggled into
Britain by criminal gangs - as fears grow over a Tunisia "copycat" attack.

GETTY

Police fear the Skorpion could fall into the hands of jihadists

The National Crime Agency said that organised crime syndicates are smuggling
Skorpion submachine guns into the UK, which could fall into the hands of
jihadists.

A report into serious and organised crime in the UK, published by the NCA, found
evidence of an "increased threat" of the Czech made guns being imported into
Britain by street gangs in London.

The agency is worried that the guns could end up in the hands of extremists
intending to carry out terror acts on the UK.

AP

There are concerns over an attack similar to Tunisia terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui

Counter terror chiefs have been concerned about the crossover between criminal
gangs and extremists for a while.

Attacks like the one in Tunisia are severely difficult for authorities to halt
because of the lack of planning the terrorists need to execute the assault.

Police are increasing protection at at big summer events, including Wimbledon
and planned services marking the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 bombings.

Mark Rowly, Assistant Commisioner for the National Police Chiefs' Council, said
that the police response to the Tunisia massacre is likely to be the biggest
counter terrorism practice since the 2005 London bomb attacks.

He said: "The operation currently involves over 600 officers and staff and is
being coordinated from the National Counter Terrorism Policing HQ at New
Scotland Yard.

"Because of the scale of the attack, the numbers of fatalities and the
international nature of it, it is likely that several hundred counter-terrorism
and other police officers and staff will be working on this case for some time."

Emergency services were involved in a mock terrorist attack yesterday, ensuring
they are prepared for the "worst".

They were faced with a Tunisian-style gun massacre during the first of the
two-day operation.

Correction

This article was amended on 8 July 2015. It originally stated that a Skorpion
submachine gun is capable of firing 1000 rounds per second. This was incorrect.
The gun is capable of firing up to 850 rounds per minute.

Related articles Terror on London's streets: Emergency service crews tackle
'gunman' in drill scenario Tunisia terror attack: Briton widowed and unable to
speak begs for wedding ring in note Britain must declare war on Islamic State
says Ann Widdecombe

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                              July 13, 2015 Monday

UN Somalia envoy condemns latest terrorist attacks in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 330 words


The top United Nations official in Somalia has condemned "in the strongest
terms" a series of deadly terrorist attacks against an African Union Mission in
Somalia (AMISOM) base and two hotels in the country capital of Mogadishu which
resulted in numerous casualties.



The attacks - committed yesterday by the Islamist extremist group Al-Shabaab -
reportedly caused the death and injuries of civilians, members of the security
forces, AMISOM troops and Government officials and come as the Muslim world
celebrates its holy month of Ramadan.

"I condemn yesterday's terrorist attacks in Mogadishu in the strongest terms and
am appalled by the complete disregard for the lives of innocent civilians shown
by the attackers," the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for
Somalia, Nicholas Kay. "An attack during Iftar prayers, a sacred time for
families and communities to come together, is an assault on the beliefs of
Muslims all over the world."

In today's statement, Mr. Kay also commended the swift action taken by the
Somali and African Union security forces who managed to ultimately repel the
attacks and prevent further casualties.

"The United Nations continues to work actively with the Federal Government,
AMISOM and international partners to build strong national security and
government institutions to secure the country," he added.

In a briefing of the Security Council in May, Mr. Kay told Security Council
members that momentum had been regained on efforts to achieve political progress
in the country, pointing to work by federal, regional and local leaders, and
parliamentarians to build a State through dialogue and reconciliation, and
top-level commitment to deliver Somalia's Vision 2016 plan.

At the same time, however, he conceded that there was "still a long way to go,"
adding that with so much at stake between now and 2016, "we can expect
Al-Shabaab to do everything it can to derail the political process."



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 9:29 PM GMT

Massachusetts man arrested by FBI in connection with alleged Isis attack plot;
Alexander Ciccolo, 23, of Adams, Massachusetts, was arrested on charges that he
planned to commit a terrorist attack in the US on behalf of Islamic State

BYLINE: Raya Jalabi in New York

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 588 words


A Massachusetts man has been arrested and charged by the FBI in connection with
an alleged plot to commit a terrorist attack in the US on behalf of Islamic
State.

Alexander Ciccolo, 23, of Adams, Massachusetts, was arrested on gun charges
after buying two rifles "with large ammunition magazines" and two pistols from a
confidential informant working with the FBI, the Department of Justice said in a
statement.

In late June, according to the complaint in the case, Ciccolo told the informant
he planned to attack civilians, US military members and law enforcement officers
using a pressure cooker and/or portable microwave bomb filled with ball
bearings, nails, glass and rocks.

He later changed his plan, the complaint said, telling the informant the attack
would target college dorms and cafeterias, and that he would broadcast the
executions of students live online, because universities would have "many more
people" present.

According to the complaint, a "close acquaintance" of Ciccolo's told federal
officials Ciccolo had a history of mental illness and had become "obsessed" with
Islam in the last 18 months. The FBI said it began investigating Ciccolo after
the acquaintance said in September Ciccolo had wanted to go abroad to fight,
under the perception that his "faith is under attack".

Ciccolo maintained a Facebook profile page under the name Ali al-Amriki,
according to investigating agents, on which he expressed an interest in dying
for Islam. In October, Ciccolo had posted an image "that appeared to be a dead
American soldier", accompanied by a quote: "Thank you Islamic State! Now we
won't have to deal with these kafir back in America."

According to the criminal complaint, Ciccolo praised the recent attacks in
Tunisia, calling the ability of one man to kill 38 people "a huge
accomplishment". Ciccolo affirmed his support for Isis to the FBI during
interrogation, officials said.

ABC News reported that Ciccolo was the estranged son of a respected Boston
police captain, Robert Ciccolo. Ciccolo Sr was "one of the first responders to
the deadly Boston Marathon bombing", ABC reported.

The criminal complaint alleges that Ciccolo referenced the Boston Marathon
bombings as a source of inspiration for his attack using pressure cooker bombs.

Captain Ciccolo did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Ciccolo bought a pressure cooker in preparation for his attack, which he said he
wanted to complete before the month of Ramadan is over. At the end of June, an
Isis spokesman urged would-be jihadis to make the holy month of Ramadan "a time
of calamity for the infidels".

At the time of his arrest, Ciccolo was carrying the firearms he had purchased as
well as a knife and the receipt for the pressure cooker, which he had purchased
the day before.

A search of Ciccolo's apartment turned up bomb-making equipment, several
"partially constructed Molotov cocktails" and two machetes.

While Ciccolo was being processed into a correctional facility after his arrest,
he allegedly stabbed a nurse in the head with a pen during a routine medical
screening. The complaint includes a photograph of the nurse's bloodied head.

Ciccolo was convicted in February of driving while under the influence of
alcohol, and sentenced to probation. The complaint said Ciccolo had previously
"abused" alcohol.

Ciccolo was set to appear in court in Massachusetts on Tuesday for a detention
hearing. The FBI recommended he be held without bail, due to the severity of his
alleged plot and the nurse's stabbing.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 13, 2015 Monday 11:46 AM GMT

Isis schoolgirl Amira Abase 'marries Australian jihadist who threatened terror
attacks on UK';
She was one of three schoolgirls from Bethnal Green who joined the group earlier
this year

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 473 words


One of the three London schoolgirls who fled Britain to join Isis in Syria has
married a notorious Australian jihadi, it has been claimed.

Amira Abase, who was only 15 when she left the country with two friends from the
Bethnal Green Academy in February, is believed to have wed Abdullah Elmir.

The 18-year-old militant surfaced in Isis propaganda videos last year after
disappearing from his family home in Sydney, bragging that Isis would invade the
West and "take the head of every tyrant".

Elmir, known for his distinctive red hair, was shown in a video released in
October wearing a suicide vest and brandishing a Kalashnikov, surrounded by
militants holding the flag of the so-called Islamic State.

He said: "Until we put the black flag on top of Buckingham Palace, until we put
the black flag on top of the White House, we will not stop, and we will keep on
fighting."

Read more: Bethnal Green schoolgirls 'marry Isis fighters'Australian jihadist
vows Isis will put flag on Buckingham PalaceAmira Abase mocks British victims of
Tunisia massacre

A man claiming to be Elmir contacted the Mail on Sunday, threatening attacks on
Britain and saying he had married Amira.

He told the newspaper not to contact his wife again following its publication of
an exchange of messages where she attempted to lure an undercover reporter to
Syria and greeted news of the Tunisia massacre by saying "lol", meaning "laugh
out loud".

Elmir reportedly told the Mail on Sunday he was issuing a "direct threat"
against the UK and claimed he knew British jihadists that were "itching to do an
attack".

Amira, now 16, travelled to Syria during the February half term with Shamima
Begum, 15 and Kadiza Sultana, 16, sparking an international manhunt.

Shamima and Kadiza's families were told they had married Isis fighters earlier
this month and were living in the group's Syrian stronghold of Raqqa.

They are thought to have picked their jihadi husbands from what the Guardian
described as a "catalogue" of suitable men in their twenties.

Before their marriages they were kept in a house for "sisters" where they were
not permitted to leave without an escort or contact the outside world. Timeline:
The emergence of Isis

A solicitor representing the families, Tasnime Akunjee, told the Telegraph that:
"It has caused a lot of distress. It entrenches their lives in Syria, rather
than in Britain. It erodes significantly hopes that they will come back."

Activists from Eye on the Homeland, an anti-Isis group based in Raqqa, claimed
the teenagers were being controlled by a handler known as Umm Layth, believed to
be Glasgow student Aqsa Mahmood.

Accounts under the name Umm Layth have called for terrorist attacks on social
media, urged other girls to become jihadi brides and named the UK among
countries that are "openly waging a war against Muslims and oppressing them".

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 6:51 AM GMT

U.S. considers putting drones in North Africa to increase monitoring of ISIS in
Libya following spate or terrorist attacks

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 361 words



     ·    Officials said base in region would 'help understanding of what's
          going on'
     ·    Drone flights would help give real-time information on militant
          activities
     ·    Terrorist group has gained ground in the area during a 'security
          vacuum'
     ·    Two rival governments are currently battling for control in Libya
     ·    Beach gunman who killed dozens of tourists in Turkey is believed to
          have trained in the North African country


The United States is holding discussions with countries in North Africa about
locating drones at a base there to heighten monitoring of ISIS in Libya
following a recent spate of terrorist attacks.

Such a base near Islamic State strongholds and training camps in Libya would
help the United States 'fill gaps in our understanding of what's going on' in
that region, a source told The Wall Street Journal.

The newspaper said drone flights would give U.S. military and intelligence
agencies real-time information on the militant group's activities in Libya.

Fighters allied with Islamic State commanders in Iraq and Syria have been
gaining ground in Libya, where two rival governments are battling for control
and militants have taken advantage of the security vacuum.

The Journal, citing senior U.S. officials, said no North African country had yet
agreed to offer access to a base.

It quoted officials as saying any such facility would likely be an existing base
under the control of the host country, with the United States receiving
permission to place drones there along with a limited number of military
personnel.

U.S. allies Egypt and Tunisia share borders with Libya.

But the Journal reported administration officials declined to identify countries
that could host U.S. drones.

U.S. military officials told the paper that drones launched from the proposed
base could also be used in air strikes against Islamic State targets in Libya
and that the base could be a launching point for special operations missions
against militants.

Islamic State has claimed a number of attacks in North Africa recently,
including the killing of dozens of foreign tourists at a Tunisian beach resort
last month.

The attacker is believed to have trained alongside other militants in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              July 13, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Anger at gym promo to get in shape for a terror attack

BYLINE: LIAM CORCORAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 204 words


A FITNESS instructor has been encouraging people to get in shape - so they can
run away from terrorists.

Luke Harrison's Facebook clip begins with him saying 'boom' and asking if the
Tunisia and 7/7 atrocities could 'inspire you to get fit and healthy.'

The 29-year-old, who runs Total Fitness Tribe, in South Shields, Tyne and Wear,
goes on to ask: 'If you had to run for your f****** life, could you do it? At
the end of the day, what if you had to jump over a wall, what if you had to
sprint round a corner, what if you had to do something fast, pull yourself up,
push away from somebody?'

The video, which has since been removed, ends with him asking: 'So why the f***
aren't you looking after yourself? Why are you not keeping fit, healthy and
strong, just in case?'

National Victims' Association founder Dave Hines said Mr Harrison had shown
'absolutely no compassion or thought' for the victims of these tragedies or
their families.

'He's trying to make a profit from these awful incidents.'

Mr Harrison, who starts every video with 'boom', denied trying to profit from
the tragedies.

'I also talked about people being stabbed or raped and the message was simply
about if you could do something to protect yourself,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fitness instructor: Luke Harrison posted the video for Total Fitness
Tribe on FacebookPICTURE: HEMEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                              July 13, 2015 Monday

LIVE: Funeral of Trudy Jones, the Blackwood woman killed in Tunisia terror
attack

BYLINE: Francesca Gillett

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 28 words


JOIN Argus reporter Fran Gillett for live coverage of the funeral of Blackwood
woman Trudy Jones who was gunned down while on holiday in Tunisia.

Tweets by @ArgusFGillett

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        July 13, 2015 Monday 9:15 AM GMT

'A loving, caring and popular woman' Family of Tunisia terrorist attack victim
Trudy Jones pay tribute ahead of funeral;
The Blackwood mother and grandmother was among 38 people killed when a gunman
opened fire on tourists in a resort in Sousse

BYLINE: By Alicia Melville-Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


The family of Tunisia terrorist attack victim Trudy Jones have paid heartfelt
tribute to the "loving, caring and popular woman" ahead of her funeral.

The Blackwood mother and grandmother was among 38 people killed when a gunman
opened fire on tourists in a resort in Sousse on Friday, June 26.

In tribute released over the weekend, Ms Jones' niece Stacey Birchard said she
was a "loving, caring and popular woman".

Ms Birchard said: "Her family, including her 84-year-old mother, remain
devastated and heartbroken about what has happened.

"They are still struggling to come to terms with the fact that Trudy will never
return from her holiday because of the actions of this one man, who did not care
about the irreparable damage and upset he would cause to Trudy's family or
friends.

"Trudy's family are grateful to those that have visited and who have made
donations. They are truly comforted by the support that they have received
during this difficult time."

Ms Birchard added that the family kindly ask if any donations are made, they are
made through the Gofundme website set up for Trudy or by making a deposit at any
Santander branch in the trust fund set up in Trudy's name. All money raised will
go to Trudy's family.

So far £235 has been donated through the website with messages of support
including "All the community thinking of you at this sad time", and "Such a
lovely lady who brought sunshine into every life she touched".

Ms Jones' funeral is being held on Monday at St David's Church in Blackwood.

The mother-of-four, who worked as an activities co-ordinator at Highfields
Nursing Home in Blackwood, was on holiday at the beach resort at the time of the
attack. The 51-year-old had been due to fly home on Monday and go back to work
the following day.

Her body was returned by an RAF C-17 plane to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire on
Thursday, July 2.

The following day hundreds of people including dignitaries, police officers and
schoolchildren gathered at the Dragon Circle in Blackwood's town centre to hold
a minute's silence for Ms Jones.

The Rev Sue Phillips, a Baptist minister in Blackwood, said the community was
"reeling under the blow and unable to think clearly".

To donate to Ms Jones' Gofundme page please visit www.gofundme.com/yw5d9gg.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Kosovo prosecutor accuses Serbian citizen of plotting terrorist attack

LENGTH: 513 words


Text of report by Kosovo Albanian privately-owned newspaper Koha Ditore on 11
July

[Report by Vehbi Kajtazi: "Serbian Citizens Accused of Terrorism in Kosovo"]

Pristina, 10 July: The Special Prosecution of Kosovo filed on 10 July an
indictment against Serbian citizen Slobodan Gavric for terrorism-related
activities. Prosecutor Drita Hajdari claims that Gavric plotted a terrorist
attack with the intention of frightening the population and destabilizing and
destroying the most important political, constitutional, economic, and social
structures of Kosovo.

In a statement circulated to the media, the prosecution did not specify where
the attack could have been carried out and if Gavric was working alone or if
other people would be helping him in such an undertaking.

"In December 2014, the defendant S.G. equipped himself in Belgrade with 25
explosive devices weighing around 12 kilos, which included a powerful explosive
called Pentaerythritol Tetranitrate (PETN), combined with metallic particles,
bolts, and nails, which increase the destruction power and cause a maximum
number of human casualties and material damage. On 25 December 2014, he brought
the explosives in his car from Belgrade to Pristina," reads the prosecution's
statement.

Gavric was stopped in Pristina's Arberia quarter. The police found the explosive
devices in the trunk of the car. The prosecution accuses Gavric of "plotting a
terrorist attack or a criminal offense against the constitutional order and
security of the Republic of Kosovo."

The prosecution has advised that the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and
the Kosovar Forensic Agency had carried out the examination of the explosive
devises Gavric was found in possession of.

This newspaper reported earlier that Slobodan Gavric had travelled a long way by
car which was filled with explosives. He had even entered and exited Kosovo
three times with the same amount of explosives. The Serbian citizen, arrested on
25 December [2014], was staying at Pristina's Grand Hotel, where he checked in
with his name and surname, while he left his car with Belgrade license plates in
the hotel parking lot. Gavric also had a letter with him, in which Pristina's
streets were described, with special emphasis on the street at "Tre sheshirat
[Three hats]" near the Cathedral. The explanation he gave was that he was
supposed to hand over the explosives to someone there and he was waiting for his
phone call.

The intelligence and arrest operation was led by the Kosovo Intelligence Agency
[AKI]. The Kosovar authorities described the case as an attempted terrorist
attack.

Later, the police in Serbia searched the suspect's home. Serbian Interior
Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic stated that the Serbian authorities were cooperating
with EULEX [EU rule-of-law mission in Kosovo] to shed light on the case and that
an order to search Slobodan Gavric's home had been issued. "We will see if there
is evidence useful for the investigations," he said, promising cooperation with
EULEX until the case is solved.

Source: Koha Ditore, Pristina, in Albanian 11 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Braintree and Witham Times

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Family launch appeal to help Kirsty recover after terror attack

BYLINE: John Lucas

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 336 words


The family of a Braintree woman left badly injured in the Tunisian terror
attacks have launched a fund to help her rebuild her life.

Kirsty Murray, 25, and her fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29, also of Braintree,
were by the pool at the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the resort of Sousse when
Islamic State fanatics opened fire on June 26.

The couple are now being treated in a hospital in the UK and will not be able to
work for several months.

On Monday, Kirsty's older sister Stacey, 27, launched an online fundraising
campaign with a heartfelt plea for help.

She said: "We can only imagine the horror they experienced that day as they both
thought they were to lose their life as well as each other. "The road ahead will
be long and present many obstacles but together, along with the help of their
families they can make it."

Kirsty and Radley were both injured by a grenade but Kirsty was then shot five
times at close range in the arms and legs.

The nursery nurse and her partner of seven years were on the first day of their
holiday when the gunman struck.

Miss Murray lost six pints of blood and spent three days in intensive care after
being rescued by a stranger and driven to hospital.

She believes she was shot by a second gunman acting with 23-year-old Seifeddine
Rezgui, who was later killed by police.

The attack killed 38 people, including 30 Britons.

Stacey added: "The support of well wishers has been instrumental in them both
coming this far.

"We decided to set up this fund to ensure that the both of them whilst
recovering, can concentrate on getting better, instead of worrying about the
financial burden that not being able to work would bring.

"If you could donate just a small amount to ease this burden, whilst they are
being treated in hospital then we all would be incredibly grateful and Kirsty
and Radley can both continue on their journey to recovery."

Stacey said the fundraising page, with a target of £10,000, would deposit money
straight into her sister's account.

To donate, visit gofundme.com/z6p738.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Security Forces Foil Church Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 79  words



HIGHLIGHT: Nigerian security forces have foiled a major terrorist attack after
two explosives were detected in the Evangelical Church Winning All premises in
the Tudun Wada area of the central city of Jos.


News: Nigerian security forces have foiled a major terrorist attack after two
explosives were detected in the Evangelical Church Winning All premises in the
Tudun Wada area of the central city of Jos, reports Press TV. According to
Emmanuel Abuh, the spokesperson for the state police in Plateau, one of the two
devices hidden in the church compound went off on detection, though there were
no casualties. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attempted
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Terrorist Attack Kills One Civilian In Ardahan

LENGTH: 95  words



HIGHLIGHT: A group of armed attackers allegedly fired on security forces near
Ardahan's Göle district bordering Erzurum Province in Turkey on July 12, killing
one civilian and injuring another in the crossfire.


News: A group of armed attackers allegedly fired on security forces near
Ardahan's Gole district bordering Erzurum Province in Turkey on July 12, killing
one civilian and injuring another in the crossfire. According to a statement
released from the Ardahan governor's office, the incident took place as local
gendarmes were attacked by armed men while conducting investigation in the area
around the municipal water reservoirs under an operation launched on July 9
'when a group of terrorists cut off water supply, and took technical repair
teams hostage' (Anadolu Agency).

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Boston police captain's son held by FBI for 'terrorist attack' plan

BYLINE: Michael Howie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 167 words


THE son of a Boston police captain has been arrested and accused of plotting
terrorist acts in support of Islamic State - including setting off
pressure-cooker bombs at a university.

Alexander Ciccolo was held in an FBI operation after a warning last year from
his father Robert - who has been with the Boston police for 27 years - that his
son had a history of mental illness and was talking about joining IS.

Ciccolo, 23, has been charged with illegal possession of a firearm after
receiving four guns from a person cooperating with the Western Massachusetts
Joint Terrorism Task Force. "While we were saddened and disap-pointed to learn
of our son's intentions, we are grateful authorities were able to prevent any
loss of life or harm to others," Ciccolo's parents said.

The FBI said Ciccolo, also known as Abu Ali al Amriki, was recorded talking
about plans to commit acts inspired by IS. Agents said they saw Ciccolo buying a
pressure cooker similar to those used in the 2013 Boston Marathon attacks.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Mental illness": Alexander Ciccolo planned to join IS, according to
his father Robert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

The African Union strongly condemns the terrorist attack that took place
yesterday in Cameroon

LENGTH: 343 words


ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -- The Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union
(AU), Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, strongly condemns the terrorist attack
perpetrated yesterday in Fotokol, northern Cameroon, causing the death of more
than a dozen people and wounding several others. She expresses the AU's full
solidarity with the people and Government of Cameroon, conveys her condolences
to the bereaved families and wishes speedy recovery to all the injured.



The Chairperson of the Commission stresses that this terrorist act and the
attacks perpetrated recently in Chad, Niger and Nigeria, are a tragic
illustration of the fact that in spite of the significant progress made in the
fight against the Boko Haram terrorist group, there are still many challenges to
be addressed. In this context, the Chairperson of the Commission encourages the
member countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) and Benin to
strengthen their efforts aimed at fully operationalizing the Multinational Joint
Task Force joint (MNJTF) mandated to eliminate the Boko Haram terrorist group.
She reaffirms the AU's commitment to continue working closely with the countries
of the region to attain the agreed objectives, and assures them of the AU's
continued solidarity.

The Chairperson of the Commission reiterates the AU's call to the other Member
States and to the international partners to provide all the necessary financial
and logistical assistance in support of the efforts of the countries of the
region. More generally, she, once again, emphasizes the need for all Member
States to make renewed efforts to address the scourge of terrorism and violent
extremism in Africa. In this regard, particular emphasis should be placed on the
signature and ratification of the relevant AU instruments by the countries that
have not yet done so, as well as on the effective implementation of measures
contained therein, including exchange of information and intelligence and
operational coordination.

African Press Organization (APO)



(Distributed by M2 Communications (www.m2.com))

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: INVESTREND


                 Copyright 2015 Investrend Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 7:52 PM GMT

Foreign Office advises Britons to leave Tunisia in wake of attack;
Official advice suggests a 'further terrorist attack is highly likely' and warns
against all but essential travel to the country

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Chief political correspondent, Kevin Rawlinson, Chris
Stephen and Eileen Byrne

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1567 words


British tourists are being advised to leave Tunisia immediately after
intelligence warnings of further terrorist attacks and concerns that the local
authorities are unable to provide adequate protection.

Tour operators are organising extra flights to bring back more than 3,000 UK
tourists after the Foreign Office amended its travel advice to warn against all
but essential travel to the country.

Related: Tunisia killers have declared war on Britain, says David Cameron

Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice announced they have cancelled outbound
flights to Tunisia for the summer season, up to and including 31 October. Thomas
Cook has chartered extra flights - in addition to its own 10 scheduled flights
over the weekend - to repatriate its holidaymakers. Thomson and First Choice
currently have no customers in Tunisia but will repatriate all their staff from
the country within the next 24 hours.

Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, told the BBC that the FCO travel advice
had been amended amid fears that a further terrorist attack was highly likely.
"While we do not have any information suggesting a specific or imminent threat,
since the attack in Sousse the intelligence and threat picture has developed
considerably, leading us to the view that a further terrorist attack is highly
likely.

"The Tunisian investigation into those behind the Sousse attack, and that on the
Bardo Museum earlier this year, is on-going and the Tunisians have made clear
they want to track down further individuals who they suspect may have links to
this attack.

"Furthermore, we have now completed an assessment of the security measures in
tourist areas and while we are working with the Tunisian authorities to further
strengthen those measures, we judge that more work is needed to effectively
protect tourists from the terrorist threat.

"Taking all these factors together, we judge that it is right and prudent to
make this change today."

British officials hope that extra flights laid on by tour operators will mean
the estimated 2,500 to 3,000 UK tourists on package holidays in the country will
be flown home within the next two to three days. The Foreign Office is also
reaching out to the estimated 300 British tourists travelling independently in
Tunisia with advice for them to return home on scheduled flights or on the extra
flights organised by the tour operators. There were 20,000 British tourists in
Tunisia at the time of the gun attack in Sousse last month, which claimed the
lives of 38 holidaymakers, of whom 30 were British.

The foreign secretary interrupted negotiations in Vienna on Iran's nuclear
programme on Thursday afternoon to telephone the Tunisian prime minister, Habib
Essid, to inform him of what is being described as a serious upgrade of the UK's
travel advice. Essid warned on Wednesday of further attacks and Britain's
intelligence agencies are advising that such attacks are highly likely.

In a statement on its website, the FCO said the British authorities have been
working closely with the Tunisian authorities since the Sousse gun attack. But
the FCO said it feared a further attack and had concerns about security measures
in place to protect tourists.

Related: By deserting Tunisia, Britain only helps Isis | Letters

The travel advice says: "Since the attack in Sousse, we have been working
closely with the Tunisian authorities to investigate the attack and the wider
threat from terrorist groups in Tunisia. Although we have had good cooperation
from the Tunisian government, including putting in place additional security
measures, the intelligence and threat picture has developed considerably,
reinforcing our view that a further terrorist attack is highly likely.

"On balance, we do not believe the mitigation measures in place provide adequate
protection for British tourists in Tunisia at the present time and we have
therefore changed our travel advice accordingly."

The advice is against all but essential travel to the whole of the country,
which means tourists should leave immediately and those with holidays booked
should avoid Tunisia. The FCO said: "If you're in Tunisia and you don't have an
essential need to remain you should leave by commercial means. Tour operators
are arranging additional flights and will be organising departures for their
customers. If you're travelling with a tour operator, you should contact your
tour operator's representative in the first instance.

"If you're travelling independently, you should make your own arrangements to
leave. Commercial airlines are operating."

Nikhil Patel, 18, from Luton, arrived in a seaside town to the south of the
capital, Tunis, on Wednesday morning. He is staying in a hotel, along with a
host of other British tourists, on a two-week holiday.

He said: "Everything is fine so far because the security is very high. I spend
all day on the beach and you see police officers walking around with guns,
keeping an eye on everything. Even the locals are on full alert."

He said he had just seen the FCO advice on the news but he planned to stay until
his travel firm advised him to leave. "I am making the most of it because I get
the feeling we might be leaving."

At the British embassy in Tunis, a spokesman said that fewer than 3,000 British
tourists are in Tunisia, "the vast majority of them" on holidays organised by
Thomas Cook.

The Imperial Marhaba hotel, scene of the attack last month, had as guests
British visitors on packages booked with Tui's Thomson and First Choice brands.
These companies at present have no British customers in the country, the
spokesman said.

The change to the travel advice comes as the UK authorities now have better
access to intelligence gathered by the Tunisian security services, he added.

There has been a ramping up of security in Tunisia's beach resorts over the past
week. After criticism that security forces were slow to respond to the Sousse
attack, troops and police have been employed throughout what is one of the
country's largest resorts.

Police road blocks stud the city with patrols of troops with machine guns
cruising the highways in Humvee personnel carriers. On the beach outside the
almost empty Imperial Marhaba hotel, police patrol on foot, horseback and by
dune buggy, while the national guard has deployed a jet ski that cruises
offshore.

But analysts say resorts remain vulnerable. "The UK embassy has been studying
the response to Sousse attack and it appears it doesn't have confidence that
Tunisian government security measures will be enough," said Tunis-based North
Africa analyst Monica Marks. "Securing tourist sites is a herculean task and
Sousse was the definition of a soft-target attack, a gunman targeting people on
their sun beds."

Tourism accounts for 14% of the country's economy, employing 400,000 people, and
the exodus of holidaymakers will be a blow in an already depressed economy.
Habib Daguib, who rents out quad bikes on the beach outside the Marhaba said
many fear for their jobs in a city reliant on the tourist industry. "One
terrorist has killed all the country."

Tunisia has already announced measures to combat extremism, saying it will close
80 unauthorised mosques and restrict flights abroad for the under 35s in an
attempt to stem the flow of recruits to Isis. It has also confirmed its
intention to construct a fence along the border with Libya, where it says many
Tunisian extremists receive training.

But some think strikes on tourism centres are now established policy for
militants, with the government itself well protected from attack. "It is a new
strategy (by the terrorists), they want to strike to undermine the economy, to
undermine the democratic process," said French terrorism expert David Thomson.

The FCO said: "Further terrorist attacks are highly likely, including in tourist
resorts, and by individuals unknown to the authorities whose actions may be
inspired by terrorist groups via social media. You should be especially vigilant
at this time and follow the advice of the Tunisian security authorities and your
tour operator, if you have one.

Related: Tunisia beach attack: the victims

"There is a high threat from terrorism in Tunisia. On 4 July the Tunisian
government announced it was reinstating the state of emergency, lifted in 2014,
as part of its continuing response to the recent terrorist attacks. On 8 July
the Tunisian prime minister stated publicly that further attacks were likely.
The Tunisian authorities have increased their security measures but have also
acknowledged the limitations in their ability to counter the current terrorist
threat."

In its statement the FCO also advised against all travel to:


     ·    The Chaambi Mountain national park area.
     ·    The Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and
          Sakiet Sidi Youssef.
     ·    The militarised zone south of, but not including, the towns of El
          Borma and Dehiba.
     ·    Within 5km of the Libya border area from north of Dehiba, up to but
          not including the Ras Ajdir border crossing.


It is understood that the Tunisian prime minister understood Britain's decision
to upgrade its travel advice. In his telephone conversation with Essid, Hammond
praised Tunisia's response to the Sousse attack, which involved a noticeable
increase in security forces in popular tourist areas. But Britain believes that
the Tunisian authorities have some way to go to provide security which would
allow tourists to remain in the country in safety.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 5:17 PM GMT

Chad to arrest women wearing full-face veil after deadly suicide bombing in the
capital;
The announcement comes after a terrorist attack in which a suicide bomber
disguised as a woman wearing a full-face veil killed 15 people

BYLINE: Alexandra Sims

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 381 words


Chad police have said they will arrest anyone wearing a full-face veil, after a
terrorist attack in which a suicide bomber disguised as a woman wearing the
garment killed 15 people.

The attack, which took place at a market in the capital city N'Djamena, injured
80 others and has reportedly spread panic across the city.

The assailant detonated the explosives belt when he was stopped for security
checks upon entering the city's main market, according to news agency Agence
France-Presse.

Chad, which has a Muslim-majority population, banned the full-faced veil,
increased security measures and bombed a series of Boko Haram positions last
month after the country experienced its first attack by the group.

After Saturday's attack security has been further tightened across the capital
with police and soldiers being deployed in all areas, including intersections,
markets and mosques.

Read more: Boko Haram releases first beheading video since pledging allegiance
to IsisBoko Haram militants kill more than 200 people in a weekNigerian top
brass pay the price for failure on Boko Haram

Of the 15 killed on Saturday nine were female traders and fear reportedly still
grips the market.

Boko Haram claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing over Twitter, signing
their announcement off as "Islamic State, West Africa province, according to
reports.

This phrase has been the group's self-styled name since they pledged allegiance
to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group in March.

"This attack confirms that a ban on the full-face veil was justified," a
national police spokesman Paul Manga told AFP and which was reported by Al
Jazeera. He added "it now must be respected more than ever by the entire
population".

Conflict involving the terrorist group has killed at least 15,000 people since
2009 and left more than 1.5 million homeless, according to official figures.

A four-nation coalition between Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon has reportedly
pushed the armed group from captured towns and villages in an operation that
began in February.

In March the Independent reported that a spokesman for operations in Nigera said
that cooperation between Chadian and Nigerian forces had brought some major
military successes and any issues would be resolved via existing command
structures.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 10:24 PM GMT

'She was a woman of style with a heart of gold': Mourners attend funeral of
grandmother-of-four killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: JAMES DUNN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words



     ·    Lisa Burbidge, 66, from Whickham, was killed by terrorists in Souss e
     ·    Funeral brought town to a total standstill when she finally made it
          home
     ·    The service heard she was a 'beautiful woman with style and dignity'
     ·    Order of service showed her with husband Bill who died ten years
          earlier with the words 'together forever'


Mourners for a grandmother of four killed in the Tunisia atrocity were told she
was a beautiful woman with dignity, style and a 'heart of gold' at her funeral -
which brought the town to a standstill.

Mary Lisa Burbidge, 66, was one of the 30 British holidaymakers killed in the
murderous rampage that shocked the world when terrorists linked to Isis attacked
tourists in Sousse on June 26.

The bodies of the victims have now returned to Britain and the centre of
Whickham, a suburb of Gateshead, came to a standstill for the funeral of Mrs
Burbidge at the St Mary the Virgin Church.

Scroll down for video

Mrs Burbidge was mother to two girls, Melanie and Louise, and was devoted to her
late husband Bill who died exactly 10 years before her.

The order of service showed the couple smiling for the camera with the words
'together forever' under the image.

During the service her granddaughters paid tribute to the trendy grandmother who
lived for others and in whom they could confide.

The Rev Barry Abbott, the rector, said: 'Lisa was beautiful, a woman of dignity
and style with a heart of gold whose role was to nurture and care for those
around her, always putting others before herself.

'She loved her mum Betty, Melanie and Louise her wonderful girls, and her
grandchildren with all her heart - a love that will never end.'

He also spoke about the horror the gunman caused when he murdered 38 people on
June 26.

The rector said: 'The pain and tragedy of Lisa's death, along with all who died
or were injured in Tunisia, has stunned the world.

'Our cities, towns and communities have felt the shock waves of this crime.

'Here, and the surrounding area has seen a great outpouring of support.

'A wave of compassion has grown from this shared pain.

'When one of us is hurt we all hurt. Our community, along with all of Gateshead
have come together to support Lisa's family and the society we cherish.'

Loudspeakers relayed the service to people stood on the green outside the packed
church.

Scores of floral tributes have been left by local well-wishers on the approach
to the church which has stood for 900 years.

A private burial service followed the funeral.

Mrs Burbidge was among 38 people killed by gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in the
holiday resort of Sousse on Friday June 26. Thirty of the victims were British.

The gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui, is believed to have trained with the Ansar
al-Sharia group in Libya along with jihadis who shot dead 22 people at a museum
in the capital Tunis in March.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 6:00 PM GMT

Chris Christie: If there's another terrorist attack Rand Paul should be held
responsible

BYLINE: FRANCESCA CHAMBERS, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4808 words



     ·    We're going to look back on this, and he should be in front of
          hearings in front of Congress if there's another attack,' Christie
          said
     ·    Paul is aggressively opposed to provisions of the Patriot Act that
          give the feds access to Americans' phone records
     ·    The Republican politicians are competing against each other to become
          the GOP's presidential nominee


Should terrorists strike American soil again, Republican Senator Rand Paul
should be held responsible, Chris Christie says.

'We're going to look back on this, and he should be in front of hearings in
front of Congress if there's another attack. Not the director of the FBI or the
CIA,' Christie, a Republican White House hopeful, said today on Morning Joe.

Paul is also a contender for the White House, and he is aggressively opposed to
provisions of the Patriot Act that give the feds access to Americans' phone
records.

He says it's a violation of the Fourth Amendment for the government to review
bulk telephone data for ties to terrorists and federal law enforcement officials
are exaggerating the necessity of the their broad spying powers to the
prevention of attacks.

The Kentuckian gave a 10-hour speech in May that was not quite a filibuster but
kept the Senate from proceeding to other business - and to its holiday break -
ahead of the deadline to renew the spying powers in question.

That provision of the Patriot Act expired, temporarily, before lawmakers rallied
around a bill that remanded the data back to phone companies and required the
National Security Agency to obtain a warrant from a secret court before asking
to view it.

Paul would have preferred to see the measure expire altogether while Christie, a
former U.S. attorney who began his tenure immediately after 9/11, strongly
supported it as originally written.

While Congress was debating how to move forward legislatively, attacked Paul and
other lawmakers in support of revisions and said the future of the law was being
decided by 'people who have no experience dealing with what I've dealt with.'

'I'm the only person in this national conversation at the moment who has used
the Patriot Act, signed off on it, and convicted terrorists because of it,' he
said during remarks at a conservative gathering, speaking vaguely about his
presidential run as he was not a formal candidate at that point.

Christie said 'these same folks who are criticizing this now will be the same
people who will stand on Capitol Hill if there is another attack of America and
interrogate a CIA director, an FBI director, and ask them why they didn't
connect the dots and not realize the hypocrisy of their actions.'

'The first job of the President of the United States is to protect the homeland,
and that's what we need to do,' he told attendees of the Southern Republican
Leadership Conference.

He said this morning that Paul's the one who should have to testify before
Congress if attack occurs and accused him of distastefully fundraising off of
his speech against the Patriot Act.

Paul has made 'this country weaker and more vulnerable,' he said, according to
Politico, 'and for him to raise money off of it is disgraceful. It's
disgraceful.'

Christie levied a similar charge at his primary election opponent yesterday
during an appearance on Fox News Sunday, declaring, 'He's wrong and what he's
done is make America weaker and more vulnerable and he's done it and then cut
his speeches and put them on the Internet to raise money off of them.'

'He's politicizing America's national security,' Christie, the governor of New
Jersey proclaimed.

Christie's ranking in the GOP field as of the last national poll left him tied
for ninth place, earning just three percent of Republican voters support to
Paul's seven percent. Paul was tied for fourth in that poll, conducted by CNN
and ORC International at the end of last month.

Since then, Christie officially joined the 2016 race. His numbers may have
spiked as a result of his announcement speech, as presidential candidates'
ratings often do after they make their campaigns official.

But he has a long way to go before he reaches the front of the pack, where
ex-Florida Governor Jeb Bush was last perched atop the GOP flag pole at 19
percent.

THE 2016 FIELD: WHO'S IN AND WHO'S THINKING IT OVER

A whopping 20 people from America's two major political parties have declared
themselves candidates in the 2016 presidential election.

The field includes two women, an African-American and two Latinos. All but one
in that group - Hillary Clinton - are Republicans.

A few Democrats are still assessing their chances. And although the GOP field is
deeper than ever, at least two more contenders could still join the race.

REPUBLICANS IN THE RACE

Jeb Bush  Former Florida governor

Age: 62

Religion: Catholic

Base: Moderates

Résumé: Former Florida governor and secretary of state. Former co-chair of the
Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy.

Education: B.A. University of Texas at Austin.

Family: Married to Columba Bush (1974), with three adult children. Noelle Bush
has made news with her struggle with drug addiction, and related arrests. George
P. Bush was elected Texas land commissioner in 2014. Jeb's father George H.W.
Bush was the 41st Presdient of the United States, and his brother George W. Bush
was number 43.

Claim to fame: CJeb was an immensely popular governor with strong economic and
jobs credentials. He is also one of just two GOP candidates who is fluent in
Spanish.

Achilles heel: Bush has angered conservatives with hsi permissive positions on
illegal immigration (saying some border-crossing is 'an act of love) and
common-core education standards. His last name could also be a liability with
voters who fear establishing a family dynasty in the White House.

Chris Christie     New Jersey governor

Age: 52

Religion:Catholic

Base: Establishment-minded conservatives

Résumé: Governor of New Jersey. Former U.S. Attorney for the District of New
Jersey. Former Morris County freeholder and lobbyist.

Governor of New Jersey. Former U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey.
Former Morris County freeholder. Former statehouse lobbyist.

Education: B.A. University of Delaware, Newark, J.D. Seton Hall University.

Family: Married to Mary Pat Foster (1986) with four children.

Claim to fame: Pugnacious and unapologetic, Christie once told a heckler to 'sit
down and shut up' and brings a brash style to everything he does. That includes
the post-9/11 criminal prosecutions of terror suspects that made his reputation
as a hard-charger.

Achilles heel: Christie is often accused of embracing an ego-driven and
needlessly abrasive style. His administration continues to operate under a
'Bridgegate' cloud: At least two aides have been indicted in an alleged scheme
to shut down lanes leading to the George Washington Bridge as political
retribution for a mayor who refused to endorse the governor's re-election.

Carly Fiorina  Former CEO

Age: 60

Religion:      Episcopalian

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: Former CEO of Hewett-Packard. Former group president of Lucent
Technologies. Onetime U.S. Senate candidate in California.

Education: B.A. Stanford University. UCLA School of Law (did not finish). M.B.A.
University of Maryland. M.Sci. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Family: Married to Frank Fiorina (1985), with one adult step-daughter and
another who is deceased. She has two step-grandchildren. Divorced from Todd
Bartlem (1977-1984).

Claim to fame: Fiorina was the first woman to lead a Fortune 20 company,
something that could provide ammunition against the Democratic Party's drive to
make Hillary Clinton the first female president. She is also the only woman in
the 2016 GOP field, making her the one Republican who can't be accused of
sexism.

Achilles heel: Fiorina's unceremonious firing by HP's board has led to questions
about her management and leadership styles. And her only political experience
has been a failed Senate bid in 2010 against Barbara Boxer.

Mike Huckabee  Former Arkansas governor

Age: 59

Religion: Southern Baptist

Base: Evangelicals

Résumé: Former governor and lieutenant governor of Arkansas. Former Fox News
Channel host. Ordained minister and author.

Education: B.A. Ouachita Baptist University. Southwestern Baptist Theological
Seminary (did not finish).

Family: Married to Janet Huckabee (1974), with three adult children. Mrs.
Huckabee is a survivor of spinal cancer.

Claim to fame: 'Huck' is a political veteran and has run for president before,
winning the Iowa Caucuses in 2008 and finishing second for the GOP nomination
behind John McCain. He's known as an affable Christian and succeeded in building
a huge following on his weekend television program, in which he frequently sat
in on the electric bass with country & western groups and other 'wholesome'
musican entertainers.

Achilles heel: Huckabee may have a problem with female voters. He complained in
2014 about Obamacare's mandatory contraception coverage, saying Democrats want
women to 'believe that they are helpless without Uncle Sugar.' He earned more
scorn for hawking herbal supplements in infomercials as a diabetes cure,
something he has yet to disavow despite disagreement from medical experts.

George Pataki Former New York governor

Age: 69

Religion: Catholic

Base: Centrists

Résumé: Former governor of New York. Former New York state senator and state
assemblyman. Former mayor of Peekskill, NY.

Education: B.A. Yale University. J.D. Columbia Law School.

Family: Married to Libby Rowland (1973), with four adult children.

Claim to fame: Pataki was just the third Republican governor in New York's
history, winning an improbable victory over three-term incumbent Mario Cuomo in
1994. He was known for being a rare tax-cutter in Albany and was also the
sitting governor when the 9/11 terror attacks rocked New York CIty in 2001.

Achilles heel: While Pataki's liberal-leaning social agenda plays well in the
Empire State, it won't win him any fans among the GOP's conservative base. He
supports abortion rights and gay rights, and has advocated strongly in favor of
government intervention to stop global warming, which right-wingers believe is
overblown as a global threat.

Rand Paul  Kentucky senator

Age: 52

Religion: Presbyterian

Base: Libertarians

Résumé: US senator. Board-certified ophthalmologist. Former congressional
campaign manager for his father Ron Paul.

Education: Baylor University (did not finish). M.D. Duke University School of
Medicine.

Family: Married to Kelley Ashby (1990), with three sons. His father is a former
Texas congressman who ran for president three times but never got close to
grabbing the brass ring.

Claim to fame: Paul embraces positions that are at odds with most in the GOP,
including an anti-interventionist foreign policy, reduced military spending,
criminal drug sentencing reform for African-Americans and strict limits on
government electronic surveillance - including a clampdown on the National
Security Agency.

Achilles heel: Paul's politics are aligned with those of his father, whom
mainstream GOPers saw as kooky. Both Pauls have advocated for a brand of
libertarianism that forces government to stop domestic surveillance programs and
limits foreign military interventions.

Rick Santorum  Former Penn. senator

Age: 57

Religion: Catholic

Base: Evangelicals

Résumé: Former US senator and former member of the House of Representatives from
Pennsylvania. Former lobbyist who represented World Wrestling Entertainment.

Education: B.A. Penn State University. M.B.A. University of Pittsburgh. J.D.
Penn State University Dickinson School of Law.

Family: Married to Karen Santorum (1990), with seven living children. One baby
was stillborn in 1996. Another, named Isabella, is a special needs child with a
genetic disorder.

Claim to fame: Santorum won the 2012 Republican Iowa Caucuses by a nose. He won
by visiting all of Iowa's 99 states in a pickup truck belonging to his state
campaign director, a consultant who now worls for Donald Trump.

Achilles heel: As a young lobbyist, Santorum persuaded the federal government to
exempt pro wrestling from regulations governing the use of anabolic steroids.
And the stridently conservative politician has attracted strong opposition from
gay rights groups. One gay columnist held a contest to redefine his name, buying
the 'santorum.com' domain to advertise the winning entry - which is too vulgar
to print.

Scott Walker  Wisconsin governor

Age: 47

Religion: Christian (nondenominational)

Base: Conservative activists

Résumé: Governor of Wisconsin. Former Milwaukee County Executive. Former member
of the Wisconsin State Assembly.

Education: Marquette University (did not finish)

Family: Married to Tonette Tarantino (1993), with two children. One of Mrs.
Walker's cousins is openly lesbian and was married in 2014, with the Walkers
attending the reception.

Claim to fame: Walker built his national fame on the twin planks of turning his
state's past budget shortfalls into surpluses and beating back a labor-union-led
drive to force him out of office through a recall election. Both results have
broad appeal in the GOP.

Achilles heel: Wisconsin has suffered from a shaky economy during Walker's
tenure, which makes him look weak compared with other governors who presided
over more robust job-creation numbers. He promised to create 250,000 private
sector jobs but delivered less than 60 per cent of them. Also, he led an effort
in the state legislature to enact $800 million in tax cuts - putting the Badger
State back on the road to government deficits.

Ben Carson  Retired Physician

Age: 63

Religion:              Seventh-day Adventist

Base: Evangelicals

            Résumé: Famous pediatric neurosurgeon, youngest person to head a
major Johns Hopkins Hospital division. Founder of the Carson Scholars Fund,
which awards scholarships to children of good character.

Education: B.A. Yale University. M.D. University of Michigan Medical School.

Family: Married to Candy Carson (1975), with three adult sons. The Carsons live
in Maryland with Ben's elderly mother Sonya, who was a seminal influence on his
life and development.

Claim to fame: Carson spoke at a National Prayer Breakfast in 2013, railing
against political correctness and condemned Obamacare - with President Obama
sitting just a few feet away.

Achilles heel: Carson is inflexibly conservative, opposing gay marriage and once
saying gay attachments formed in prison provided evidence that sexual
orientation is a choice.

Ted Cruz         Texas senator

Age: 44

Religion:         Southern Baptist

Base: Tea partiers

                    Résumé: U.S. senator. Former Texas solicitor general. Former
U.S. Supreme Court clerk. Former associate deputy attorney general under
President George W. Bush.

Education: B.A. Princeton University. J.D. Harvard Law School.

Family: Married to Heidi Nelson Cruz (2001), with two young daughters. His
father is a preacher and he has two half-sisters.

Claim to fame: Cruz spoke on the Senate floor for more than 21 hours in
September 2013 to protest the inclusion of funding for Obamacare in a federal
budget bill. (The bill moved forward as written.) He has called for the complete
repeal of the medical insurance overhaul law, and also for a dismantling of the
Internal Revenue Service. Cruz is also outspoken about border security.

Achilles heel: Cruz's father Rafael, a Texas preacher, is a tea party firebrand
who has said gay marriage is a government conspiracy and called President Barack
Obama a Marxist who should 'go back to Kenya.' Cruz himself also has a
reputation as a take-no-prisoners Christian evangelical, which might play well
in South Carolina but won't win him points in the other early primary states and
couls cost him momentum if he should be the GOP's presidential nominee.

Lindsey Graham South Carolina senator

Age: 59

Religion:        Southern Baptist

Base: Otherwise moderate war hawks

Résumé: U.S. senator. Retired Air Force Reserves colonel. Former congressman.
Former South Carolina state representative.

Education: B.A. University of South Carolina. J.D. University of South Carolina
Law School.

Family: Never married. Raised his sister Darline after their parents died while
he was a college student and she was 13.

Claim to fame: Graham is a hawk's hawk, arguing consistently for greater
intervention in the Middle East, once arguing in favor of pre-emptive military
strikes against Iran. His influence was credited for pushing President George W.
Bush to institute the 2007 military 'surge' in Iraq.

Achilles heel: Some of his critics have taken to call him 'Grahamnesty,' citing
his participating in a 2013 'gang of eight' strategy to approve an Obama-favored
immigration bill. He has also aroused the ire of conservative Republicans by
supporting global warming legislation and voting for some of the president's
judicial nominees.

Bobby Jindal  Louisiana governor

Age: 44

Religion: Catholic

Base: Social conservatives

                  Résumé: Governor of Louisiana. Former congressman. Former
Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Planning and Evaluation.
Former Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals.

Education: B. Sci. Brown University. M.Litt. New College at Oxford University

Family: Married to Supriya Jolly (1997), with three children, each of whom has
an Indian first name and an American middle name. Bobby Jindal's given name is
Piyush.

Claim to fame: Jindal's main source of national attention has been his strident
opposition to federal-level 'Common Core' education standards, which included a
federal lawsuit that a judge dismissed in late March. He is also outspoken on
the religious-freedom issues involved in mainstreaming gay marriage into the
lives of American Christians.

Achilles heel: JindaDuring his first term as governor, Jindal signed a science
education law that requires schools to present alternatives to the theory of
evolution, including religious creationism. Similarly, his staunch defense of
businesses that want to steer clear of providing services to same-sex couples at
their weddings will win points among evangelicals but alienate much of the
electorate.

Rick PerryFormer Texas governor

Age: 65

Religion: Christian (nondenominational)

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: Former Texas governor, lieutenant governor, agriculture commissioner and
state representative.

Education: B.Sci. Texas A&M University

Family: Married to Anita Thigpen (1982) with two afult children. His father was
a former Democratic county commissioner in Texas.

Claim to fame: Perry boasts that while he was governor between the end of 2007
and the end of 2014, the Texas economy created 1.4 million new jobs while the
rest of the U.S. lost close to 400,000. A Perry-led Texas also had the nation's
highest high school graduation rate among Hispanics and African-Americans.

Achilles heel: Perry has a tough hill to climb after his 2012 presidential
campaign spectacularly imploded with a single word - 'Oops' - after he couldn't
remember one of his own talking points during a nationally televised debate. He
also faces an indictment for alleged abuse of power in a case that Republicans
contend is politically motivated and meritless.

Marco Rubio  Florida senator

Age: 43

Religion:          Catholic

Base: Conservatives

Résumé: US senator, former speaker of the Florida House of Representatives,
former city commissioner of West Miami

Education: B.A. University of Florida. J.D. University of Miami School of Law.

Family: Married to Jeanette Dousdebes (1998), with two sons and two daughters.
Jeanette is a former Miami Dolphins cheerleader who posed for the squad's first
swimsuit calendar.

Claim to fame: Rubio's personal story as the son of Cuban emigres is a powerful
narrative, and helped him win his Senate seat in 2010 against a well-funded
governor whom he initially trailed by 20 points.

Achilles heel: Rubio was part of a bipartisan 'gang of eight' senators who
crafted an Obama-approved immigration reform bill in 2013 which never became law
- a move that angered conservative Republicans. And he was criticized in 2011
for publicly telling a version of his parents' flight from Cuba that turned out
to appear embellished.

Donald Trump  Real estate developer

Age: 69

Religion: Catholic

Base: Presbyterian

Résumé: Chairman of The Trump Organization. Fixture on the Forbes 400 list of
the world's richest people. Star of 'Celebrity Apprentice.'

Education: B.Sci. Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Family: Married to Melania Trump (2005). Divorced from Ivana Trump and Marla
Maples. Five grown children. Trump's father Fred Trump amassed a $400 million
fortune developing real estate.

Claim to fame: Trump's niche in the 2016 campaign stems from his celebrity as a
reality-show host and his enormous wealth - $8.7 billion, according to Trump.
Because he can sef-fund an entire presidential campaign, he is seen as less
beholden to donors than other candidates.

Achilles heel: Trump is a political neophyte who has toyed with running for
president and for governor of New York, but shied away from taking the plunge
until now. His billions have the potential to alienate large swaths of the
electorate. And his Republican rivals are already labeling him an ego-driven
celebrity and an electoral sideshow because of his past enthusiasm for
anti-Obama 'birtherism.'

REPUBLICANS IN THE HUNT

Jim Gilmore, former Virginia governor

Gilmore is no political neophyte, having been Virginia's governor and attorney
general. He would also bring military credentials through his service as an Army
intelligence agent. He is also a board member of the National Rifle Association
and presdient of the Free Congress Foundation, a conservative think tank.

John Kasich, Ohio governor

Kasich is a popular governor in the battleground Buckeye State, but has little
name-recognition elsewhere. He has accommodated liberals on some issues and
could be seen as a more palatable version of Jeb Bush for Republicans who fear
electing a family dynasty.

DEMOCRATS IN THE RACE

Lincoln Chafee Former Rhode Island governor

Age: 62

Religion:  Episcopalian

Base: Centrists

Résumé: Former Rhode Island governor. Former U.S. senator. Former city
councilman and mayor of Warwick, RI.

Education: B.A. Brown University. Graduate, Montana State University
horseshoeing school.

Family: Chafee is married to Stephanie Chafee (1990) with three children. Like
him, his father John Chafee was a Rhode Island governor and US senator, but also
served as Secretary of the Navy. Lincoln was appointed to his Senate seat when
his father died in office.

Claim to fame: While Chafee was a Republican senator during the George W. Bush
administration, he cast his party's only vote in 2002 against a resolution that
authorized military action in Iraq. Hillary Clinton, also a senator then, voted
in favor - giving him a point of comparison that he hopes to ride to victory.

Achilles heel: Chafee's lack of any significant party loyalty has turned allies
into foes throughout his political career, and Democrats aren't sure he's
entirely with them now. He was elected to the Senate as a Republican in 2000 but
left the party and declared himself a political independent after losing a
re-election bid in 2006. As an independent, he was elected governor in 2010. Now
he's running for president as a Democrat.

Martin O'Malley Former Maryland governor

Age: 52

Religion: Catholic

Base: Centrists

                              Résumé: Former Maryland governor. Former city
councilor and mayor of Baltimore, MD. Former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the
District of Columbia.

Education: B.A. Catholic University of America. J.D. University of Maryland.

Family: O'Malley is married to Katie Curran (1990) and they have four children.
Curran is a district court judge in Baltimore. Her father is Maryland's attorney
general. O'Malley's mother is a receptionists in the Capitol Hill office of
Democratic Sen. Barbara Mikulski.

Claim to fame: O'Malley pushed for laws in Maryland legalizing same-sex marriage
and giving illegal immigrants the right to pay reduced tuition rates at public
universities. But he's best known for playing guitar and sung in a celtic band
cammed 'O'Malley's March.'

Achilles heel: O'Malley may struggle in the Democratic primary since he endorsed
Hillary Clinton eight years ago. If he prevails, he will have to run far enough
to her left to be an easy target for the GOP. He showed political weakness when
his hand-picked successor lost the 2014 governor's race to a Republican. But
most troubling is his link with Baltimore, whose 2016 race riots have made it a
nuclear subject for politicians of all stripes.

Jim Webb Former Virginia senator

Age: 69

Religion: Christian (nondenominational)

Base: War hawks and economic centrists

Résumé:Former U.S. senator from Virginia. Former U.S. Secretary of the Navy
under Ronamd Reagan. Former Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs.

Education: B.A. US Naval Academy (transferred from the University of Southern
California). J.D. Georgetown University.

Family: Married to Hong Le Webb (2005). Divorced from Jo Ann Krukar (1981-2004).
Divorced from Barbara Samorajczyk (1968-1979).

Claim to fame: Webb is the rare Democrat who can bring both robust defense
credentials and a history of genuine bipartisanship to the race. He served in
Republican president Ronald Reagan's defense directorate as Navy secretary, and
earned both the Navy Star and the Purple Heart in combat. Webb is also seen as a
quiet scholar who has written more than a half-dozen historical novels and a
critically acclaimed history of Scots-Irish U.S. immigrants.

Achilles heel: Webb has a reputation as a bit of a quitter. He resigned his Navy
secretary post over a budget-cut dispute just 10 months after taking the job,
and he declined to run for re-election to the U.S. Senate in 2006. He also
attracted bad press for defending the use of the Confederate flag as a heritage
symbol for American southerners. Amid a nationwide clamor to remove the flag
from the South Carolina statehouse grounds, he wrote that Americans should
'respect the complicated history of the Civil War.... Honorable Americans fought
on both sides.'

Hillary Clinton Former sec. of state

Age: 67

Religion: United Methodist

Base: Liberals

                            Résumé: Former secretary of state. Former U.S.
senator from New York. Former U.S. first lady. Former Arkansas first lady.
Former law school faculty, University of Arkansas Fayetteville.

Education: B.A. Wellesley College. J.D. Yale Law School.

Family: Clinton's husband Bill (1975) was the 42nd President of the United
States. Their daughter Chelsea is married to investment banker Marc Mezvinsky,
whose mother was a 1990s one-term Pennsylvania congresswoman.

Claim to fame: Clinton was the first US first lady with a postgraduate degree
and presaged Obamacare with a failed attempt at health care reform in the 1990s.

Achilles heel: A long series of financial and ethical scandals has dogged
Clinton, including recent allegations that her husband and their family
foundation benefited financially from decisions she made as secretary of state.
Her performance surrounding the 2012 terror attack on a State Department
facility in Benghazi, Libya, has been catnip for conservative Republicans. And
her presdiential campaign has been marked by an unwillingness to engage
journalists, instead meeting with hand-picked groups of voters.

Bernie Sanders*  Vermont senator

Age: 73

Religion: Judaism

Base: Far-left progressives

                              Résumé: U.S. senator. Former U.S. congressman.
Former mayor of Burlington, VT.

Education: B.A. University of Chicago.

Family: Sanders is married to Jane O'Meara Sanders (1988), a former president of
Burlington College. They have one child and three more from Mrs. Sanders'
previous marriage. His brother Larry is a Green Party politician in the UK and
formerly served on the Oxfordshire County Council.

Claim to fame: Sanders is an unusually blunt, and unapologetic pol, happily
promoting progressivism without hedging. He is also the longest-serving
'independent' member of Congress - neither Democrat nor Republican.

Achilles heel: Sanders describes himself as a 'democratic socialist.' At a time
of huge GOP electoral gains, his far-left ideas don't poll well. He favors open
borders, single-payer universal health insurance, and greater government control
over media ownership.

* Sanders is running as a Democrat but has no party affiliation in the Senate.

DEMOCRATS IN THE HUNT

Joe Biden, U.S. vice president

Biden would be a natural candidate as the White House's sitting second-banana,
but his reputation as a one-man gaffe factory will keep Democrats from taking
him seriously.

Elizabeth Warren, Massachusetts senator

Warren is a populist liberal who could give Hillary Clinton headaches by
challenging her from the left, but she has said she has no plans to run and is
happy in the U.S. Senate.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

lunchtime terror as axe gang attack aldi;
Shopper treated for shock after masked men storm into Didsbury store and demand
cash.

BYLINE: Charlotte Dobson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 312 words


mASKED robbers armed with axes stormed a supermarket and escaped with cash from
the tills.

The daylight raid happened at Aldi in Didsbury at 1.30pm yesterday and left
staff and shoppers inside www.shocked.No one was injured, but it is understood
that a woman was treated for shock after she suffered a panic attack.

Two men, both wearing masks and carrying axes, ran into the supermarket on
Wilmslow Road.

Police said they threat-ened a member of staff before stealing cash from the
tills and leaving in a black car in the direction of Withington.

Both men were wearing black clothes and had hoods over masked faces.

Police are now appealing to witnesses or anyone with information to come
forward. The exact amount of money taken hasn't been revealed.

Det Sgt Suleman Sange said: "Understandably, the staff were horrified to be
confronted by masked thieves brandishing axes.

"We need to find the culprits as soon as possible and stop them from using
weapons and violence to target any others. "I would appeal to anyone who
witnessed any men with similar descriptions in the area at the time of the
robbery, or anyone who saw the men fleeing, to get in touch.

"And if you do have information about who you suspect may be involved, then
please call us."

The supermarket was closed yesterday and a police cordon was in place around the
perimeter as forensic investigations were carried out at the scene.

Shoppers and deliveries to the store were being turned away by police officers
on guard at the scene.

The getaway car driver was said to be a black man of unknown age.

The scene was closed for a number of hours.

An Aldi area manager declined to comment at the scene yesterday, as did staff
who were gathered outside the store and at a nearby pub, while policed carried
out tests.

Anyone with information is urged to call police on 0161 856 9945, 101, or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Aldi store on Wilmslow Road in Didsbury.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

33 die in terror attack;
world digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 45 words


AFGHANISTAN: At least 33 people, mostly women and children, have been killed in
a suicide car bombing.

Ten others were injured when an al-Qaeda bomber detonated explosives at a
checkpoint near Camp Chapman on Sunday. The base, in the city of Khost, was once
used by the CIA.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Last respects paid to grandmother killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Gavin Engelbrecht

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words


A NORTH-EAST community today (Tuesday, July 14) paid its last respects to a
much-loved grandmother who was killed in the Tunisia terror attack.

Lisa Burbidge, 66, of Whickham, Gateshead, was one of 30 British holidaymakers
who died in the attack in Sousse on June 26 - an event which "stunned the
world", said the rector taking the service.

The grandmother-of-four was a mother to Melanie and Louise and devoted to her
husband, Bill, who died exactly ten years before her.

Mourners filed into St Mary's the Virgin Church in Whickham at lunchtime today
to the sound of tolling of bells as some of Mrs Burbidge's favourite songs were
played, including Simply Red's Holding Back the Years, Ronan Keating's If
Tomorrow Never Comes and Tina Turner's Simply the Best.

The service was relayed to people standing on the green outside the packed
church. The Rector, The Reverend Barry Abbott, said: "Lisa was beautiful, a
woman of dignity and style with a heart of gold whose role was to nurture and
care for those around her, always putting others before herself.

"She loved her mum Betty, Melanie and Louise her wonderful girls, and her
grandchildren with all her heart - a love that will never end."

He added: "The pain and tragedy of Lisa's death, along with all who died or were
injured in Tunisia, has stunned the world.

"Our cities, towns and communities have felt the shock waves of this crime.

"Here, and the surrounding area has seen a great outpouring of support. A wave
of compassion has grown from this shared pain.

"When one of us is hurt we all hurt. Our community, along with all of Gateshead
have come together to support Lisa's family and the society we cherish."

During the service her granddaughters paid touching tributes to the trendy and
inspirational grandmother who lived for others and in whom they could confide.

Her youngest grandchild Anna, 13, said: "On the 26th of June, on the tenth
anniversary of my grandad's passing, my grandma joined him in heaven - not just
to be happy but to be together again.

"It is what I know they both wanted because they loved each other so much.

"However, losing that one person who I could talk to about anything and
everything and who loved her family more than anything in the world is so
heartbreaking."

Mrs Burbidge was laid to rest alongside her husband at a private burial service.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: NORTH EAST

                       July 14, 2015 Tuesday 2:35 PM BST

FUNERAL FOR GRANDMOTHER KILLED IN TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 334 words


A grandmother of four from Gateshead killed in the Tunisia terrorist atrocity
was ``beautiful, a woman of dignity and style with a heart of gold'', mourners
at her funeral have been told.

Lisa Burbidge, 66, was one of the 30 British holidaymakers killed in the attack
in Sousse, an event which stunned the world, the rector taking the service said.

The centre of Whickham, a suburb of Gateshead, came to a stop for the funeral at
the St Mary the Virgin Church.

Mrs Burbidge was mother to Melanie and Louise, and was devoted to her late
husband Bill who died exactly 10 years before her.

The order of service showed the couple smiling for the camera with the words
``together forever'' under the image.

During the service her granddaughters paid tribute to the trendy grandmother who
lived for others and in whom they could confide.

The Rev Barry Abbott, the rector, said: ``Lisa was beautiful, a woman of dignity
and style with a heart of gold whose role was to nurture and care for those
around her, always putting others before herself.

``She loved her mum Betty, Melanie and Louise her wonderful girls, and her
grandchildren with all her heart - a love that will never end.''

He also spoke about the horror the gunman caused when he murdered 38 people on
June 26.

The rector said: ``The pain and tragedy of Lisa's death, along with all who died
or were injured in Tunisia, has stunned the world.

``Our cities, towns and communities have felt the shock waves of this crime.

``Here, and the surrounding area has seen a great outpouring of support.

``A wave of compassion has grown from this shared pain.

``When one of us is hurt we all hurt. Our community, along with all of Gateshead
have come together to support Lisa's family and the society we cherish.''

Loudspeakers relayed the service to people stood on the green outside the packed
church.

Scores of floral tributes have been left by local well-wishers on the approach
to the church which has stood for 900 years.

A private burial service followed the funeral. end

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TERROR ATTACKS CAN HAPPEN AT ANY TIME

BYLINE: CONOR KANE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 220 words


IRELAND must stay alert to the increased threat of terror attacks from abroad,
the Garda Commissioner has insisted. Noirin O'Sullivan warned they could happen
"anywhere at any time".

"And she told the Global Intelligence a Forum in Dungarvan, Co Waterford,
yesterday that anybody can be a victim.

Referring to recent attacks in Tunisia, France, Kuwait, Denmark, and further
east, she said: "Sometimes they do not resonate close to home because people
think, because it's happening in a faraway place, it may never happen here. But,
unfortunately, the new reality for all of us is that, yes, it could.

"When we hear of victims of a barbaric terrorist attack on a beach in Tunisia
with Irish names and addresses in tiny places like Meath and Athlone, and the
outpouring of sympathies, it just brings it into sharp focus that anybody can be
a victim, any time, any place."

Ireland has a history of having to deal with its "indigenous terrorist threat"
but must also be aware of new challenges, Commissioner O'Sullivan said.

She added: "From our point of view, we're very mindful that while we don't have
any significant intelligence of an attack here in Ireland, nevertheless we
remain very, very mindful and have a shared interest with our partners right
across the globe in terms of what this means for all of us." @IRISHSUNONLINE

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning ... Commissioner O'Sullivan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday

Egyptian army says "terrorist attack" on Cairo outskirts foiled

LENGTH: 121 words


The Egyptian Armed Forces have foiled a terrorist attack with a car bomb against
a military barricade on the highway linking Cairo to the eastern city of Suez,
the army's spokesman said on 15 July.

On his official Facebook page (https://goo.gl/zJWkA4), spokesman Muhammad Samir
said the failed attack killed the driver and destroyed his bomb-laden car. The
assault took place on the Suez road near the upscale district Al-Qatamiyah, on
the outskirts of Cairo.

Egypt has been witnessing a surge in terrorist attacks targeting security
forces, economic sites and public figures. Last week, an attack against the
Italian consulate in central Cairo left one person killed and ten injured.

Source: Facebook in Arabic 0910gmt 15 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday

Egyptian army foils terrorist attack on checkpoint - military spokesman

LENGTH: 85 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 15 July: [Egyptian] Army Spokesman Bridger General Muhammad Samir said
Wednesday [15 July] the armed forces foiled an attack by a booby-trapped car on
a military checkpoint on Qatamiyah-Suez road.

He said the terrorist attack left the booby-trapped car destroyed and the driver
dead.

A statement will be released later in the day to uncover circumstances of the
attack after a probe is completed.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0926gmt 15 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 8:03 PM GMT

Funeral date set for Walsall victims of Tunisia terror attack;
Service for Joel, Adrian and Patrick Evans to be held on Friday with members of
the public welcomed to pay their respects

BYLINE: By Fionnuala Bourke

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 271 words


West Midlands Police have released details of the funeral arrangements for the
three generations of the Black Country family murdered in the Tunisia terror
attacks.

The service for Joel Richards, aged 19, his uncle Adrian Evans, aged 49, and
78-year-old grandfather Patrick Evans will take place on Friday (July 17).

A funeral for friends and family will be held at Holy Cross RC church on Hall
Green Road, West Bromwich at 12.30pm.

Police said members of the public are welcome to pay their respects at the
kerbside as the cortege passes by and that the service will be relayed via
speakers in the church grounds.

The family were on holiday in Tunisia with Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen when
IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui murdered 38 tourists on the beach at
Sousse.PICTURES - Tributes for Walsall family at Bescot Stadium:

Tributes at Bescot Stadium in Walsall for the victims of the terror attacks in
Tunisia

Owen survived the attacks and was hailed a hero by Tunisian medics for helping a
woman on the beach in the aftermath while his relatives lay dead in front of
him.

Patrick Evans worked as a general manager for 33 years at Newbys Foundry,
Wednesbury.

He leaves behind his wife Maureen, daughter Suzie and grandson Owen.

Adrian Evans joined Sandwell Council aged 16 working his way up to his position
as gas services team manager.

He leaves behind his mother Maureen, sister Suzie Evans and nephew Owen - Joel's
mother and brother.

Joel Richards attended St Mary's Junior School, Stuart Bathurst Catholic High
School, Wood Green Sixth Form Academy and Worcester University studying Physical
Education and Sports Coaching Science.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 3:22 PM GMT

Family and friends say farewell to ex-Birmingham City player Denis Thwaites;
Funeral of ex-Blues star and wife Elaine takes place in seaside town of Lytham
St Annes following their deaths in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: By Gary Young

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 922 words


The seaside town of Lytham St Annes has come to a standstill with mourners
lining the streets to pay their respects to former Birmingham City player Denis
Thwaites and his wife Elaine, who were killed in the Tunisia beach massacre.

The funeral of Denis, 70, and Elaine, 69, is taking place.

The couple were two of the 30 British holidaymakers killed in the terrorist
attack in the resort of Sousse.

As the funeral cortege arrived outside the Fairhaven United Reform Church,
traffic came to a standstill and well-wishers looked on, wiping the tears from
their eyes as they embraced each other.

The order of service, which was handed out to the congregation, showed the
couple happily smiling.

As their coffins were brought into the church, Amazing Grace was played on the
organ to the scores of mourners.

Cream lilies and roses lined the insides of the two silver funeral cars.

The couple have been described as "two lovely, beautiful and precious people" to
the several hundreds of mourners who have turned out to pay their respects.

Well-wishers heard that the couple, who had made Blackpool their home for the
past 35 years, had looked forward to their trip to Tunisia having landed in the
resort two days prior.

Mrs Thwaites was said to have been "like a bottle of pop - all fizzed up inside"
with excitement, and had been counting down the days to their holiday.

The packed church heard that they had always enjoyed travelling and foreign
holidays had been a big part of their life together.

The couple were parents to Lindsey, who said that her mum and dad were "the
kindest, most caring, loving parents any daughter could wish for".

The Rev David Phillips told the congregation that everyone had been "acutely
aware of our helplessness" towards the "terrible thing that has happened",
adding, "hearts have been broken, lives have been deeply scarred".

He added: "Two lovely, beautiful and precious people have had their lives taken
from them, without cause, and with a violence that was wholly undeserved.

"The sorrow that we carry today will take a long time to ease. It is unlikely
ever to pass away from those who loved Elaine and Denis the most.

"What was done was an ugly, brutal and inexcusable crime."

Mr Thwaites, who was born in Stockton-on-Tees, played for Birmingham City from
1962 to 1972 after joining the club as an amateur in 1960.

His elder sister Sandra, in paying tribute, said that it was through her
brother's talent as a footballer "that his life and the life of the whole family
would be changed and shaped forever".

Mr Thwaites appeared in Birmingham City's first team as a 16-year-old in 1961
before turning professional the following year and had played for England at
schoolboy level.

He was part of the Birmingham City squad that won the club's first major honour
- the 1963 League Cup - and missed only six games between November 1964 and
April 1966.

He also helped his second division team hold Manchester United, whose players
included George Best, Bobby Charlton and Denis Law, to a 2-2 draw in an FA Cup
tie in February 1969.

The Rev Phillips said that Birmingham City legend Joe Gallagher had described
him as "an absolutely lovely man" who "always had a big smile on his face".

He was with the side for 10 years before retiring at the tender age of 27.

He went on to work as a hospital porter for the NHS at Blackpool Victoria
Hospital whilst "hard-working" Mrs Thwaites worked in the hospitality industry.

Floral tributes were laid outside the church.

One read: "For Elaine and Denis. So many happy memories in our hearts always,
Elaine, Mark, Anissa and Lauren."

Another said: "Denis, who was a joy to know. With much love, Vivien and all the
family."

A third read: "May the sunshine shine on you in heaven. God Bless, Sally and
Andy".

A private burial will follow the funeral. Donations are to be made to the
Alzheimer's Society.

Former footballer for Birmingham City, Malcolm Page, 68, who attended the
funeral said Mr Thwaites was "one of the best" footballers of his time.

He said: "His loyalty and great skill as a footballer were the two great things
I will remember. He really was one of the best skilled of that time. It was the
George Best era. He played with him in Malta he skinned George all the time. I
wouldn't compare him with anyone, he was one on his own."

He added: "He was a very loyal person to me, he was very loyal he would do
anything to help people out. I'm here for all the friends and colleagues Denis
had when he arrived down at Birmingham at the age of 15. "During the 10-12 years
or so there, many people loved him and as a fellow colleague I really wanted to
come up and say something. He particularly helped me at the start of my career
when I arrived at the football club aged 15, I'll be forever grateful to him."

He said that the time he saw Mr Thwaites he had been "the happiest man on earth"
and added that their former club are to hold a minute's silence to Mr Thwaites
on August 1 in their friendly at St Andrews against Leicester City.

Other former footballers to pay their respects included Alan Campbell, Malcolm
Beard, Colin Green and Brian Sharples.

Mr Thwaites' best man Roger Oldbury, 70, said the couple were "very genuine".

He added: "Denis never had a bad word to say to anybody. He was a very talented
footballer, he should have played for England but I think he got a bit fed up."

Blues will pay tribute to Mr Thwaites ahead of the pre-season home fixture
against Leicester City on August 1.

There will be a minute's silence before kick-off and a report in the matchday
programme.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 9:40 PM GMT

ISIS: Terrorists issue chilling warning of more attacks on Brits as victims of
Tunisia massacre are buried;
The message, published the terror group's online propaganda magazine Dabiq,
shows pictures of the dead on the beach marking what they call their 'Bloody
Friday'

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 430 words


Islamic State has released a chilling warning of yet more attacks on Brits -
just as the 30 victims of the Tunisian massacre are buried.

The message, published the terror group's online propaganda magazine Dabiq,
shows pictures of the dead on the beach marking what they call their 'Bloody
Friday'.

IS leaders take responsibility for the attacks in Sousse, the beheading of a
businessman in Lyon, France and the massacre in a Kuwait mosque on the same day
last month.

And they urge followers to join up to the cause, making clear Britain and
America remain the top targets for their terror attacks.

"Ab Yahyr al-Qayrawan [the name adopted by Sousse gunman Seifiddine Rezgui] made
his way into a hotel beach resort with an assault rifle," it states, alongside
images of bodies lying covered by their sun beds in Sousse.

"He massacred dozens of citizens belonging to a number of European crusader
states also involved in the coalition waging war against the Islamic State.

"These were the latest in a line of attacks carried out over the past year by
soldiers of the Khilfah around the world in response to the Islamic State's call
to fight the mushrik'n [enemy] wherever they are found."

It adds the UK and US remain the top targets for any future terror attacks as
key member states of the 'crusader coalition'.

The magazine celebrates the Sousse attack as a 'day of terror for crusader
citizens', adding: "Your state is facing a new campaign - wherever you are, what
are you going to do to support your brothers?'

Showing pictures of IS terrorists who have died in previous attacks, it goes on:
'Join the Caravan of Islamic State Knights in the Land of the Crusaders.'

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

The call to arms appears with images of the bodies of the Tunisian victims'
coffins as they are being repatriated back to the UK, and various pictures of
emergency services responding to terrorist outrages around the world.

It goes on to urge any women who are unhappy with the lack of devotion to Islam
in the West to come to IS and become a Jihadi bride.

Dabiq is a place in Syria which is supposed to be the location for one of the
final battles according to certain Muslim myths about a final apocalypse.

The IS terror alert comes as the funerals of the Tunisian victims are held
across Britain.

Today former Birmingham City footballer Denis Thwaites, 70, and his wife Elaine,
69, were laid to rest in Lytham St Annes, Lancashire.

On Tuesday, Lisa Burbidge, 66, from Whickham, Gateshead, was buried alongside
her husband Bill who died exactly 10 years before her.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 7:00 PM GMT

Essential holiday safety tips for Brits in wake of Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 433 words


TOP security expert Will Geddes has compiled his top tips for Brits to stay safe
in Spain as the country faces its biggest terror threat in 10 years.

Authorities have now initiated a tourist terror plan at popular holiday resorts
in the wake of the tragic Tunisia beach massacre.

Holiday-goers from the UK are feared to be a key target for ISIS extremists
following the death of 30 Brits in last month's terror attack.

Will Geddes, head of global security firm International Corporate Protection,
has these top tips for staying safe overseas.

1. Check the FCO Travel Advice Website

- The UK government will always ensure we remain safe where they can. They are
linked into many international intelligence sources, so will always give their
best advice.

2. Be Aware

- Even though the whole idea is to relax on our holidays, try and be aware of
who is around you. We call this 'situational awareness'. Treat this the same way
as you would if you were to visit a local market or go out in the evening and
you'd want to protect your valuables.

3. Trust your instincts

- If something or someone makes you feel uncomfortable, move away from there or
them. Don't wait to confirm your instincts were right. There might be good
reason they're alerting you.

4. Aways report it

- If you see something or someone suspicious - report it to hotel, restaurant or
bar staff, security, manager.

5. Plan ahead/Safe Havens

- As you would plan for a day on the beach, day trip or excursion, think about
it in the same way as if you get separated from your partner or children. Where
would you all meet if you lose contact with each other - at the coach, hotel
reception, hotel room, etc. Pick somewhere practical and easy to get to.

6. Communicate

- Make sure you can use your mobile locally if you need to. You could also
consider buying a local sim card to keep roaming costs down. Make sure you have
charged your phone before you head out for your day. Also, give your friends and
family at home the number of your hotel, holiday rep and your local sim number,
if you get one.

Will has created app called TacticsON for iOS and Android phones which is
designed for personal safety with advice on a wide range of situations,
including terrorism.

It allows users to make emergency calls and connects with local police in 118
different countries.

Related articles Brit tourists in Spain at risk of Islamic State terror attack,
Government warns Brits in Costa Del Sol, Costa Brava and Costa Blanca now 'top
targets for ISIS attack' Spain launches terror safety plan over fears of ISIS
tourist attack

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Sixty British fighters have been killed after joining Isil campaigns in Iraq and
Syria;
More British jihadists losing their lives as terror groups come under fierce
attack

BYLINE: Claire Newell; Edward Malnick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 570 words


MORE than 60 Britons have died while fighting for Islamic terrorist groups in
Syria and Iraq, The Daily Telegraph can disclose.

The figure, confirmed by government sources, is twice that reported last year
and suggests a sharp increase in the rate of British fighters killed in the
service of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

Experts say the new death toll means that nearly one in 10 of the estimated 700
British jihadists who have gone to Syria has been killed or has killed
themselves in suicide attacks since the con-flict started drawing in British
foreign fighters in 2012. The identities of many of those killed have emerged in
social media reports emanating from Isil.

Today's disclosure comes as ministers are understood to be planning a bombing
campaign against Islamist terrorists in Syria. David Cameron is expected to call
a Commons vote on the issue in the autumn.

It emerged yesterday that 43 women and girls are believed to have travelled to
Syria from Britain in the past year.

Scotland Yard disclosed that almost one female a week had been reported missing
by their families to police forces around the country in the past 12 months.

Charlie Winter, a senior researcher at the Quilliam Foundation, a
counterextremism think tank, said: "The battlefield in Iraq and Syria has really
heated up in the last year in terms of what resistance Islamic State is facing
as an organisation.

"It's a combination of coalition airstrikes and offensives on the ground, but
not necessarily just when Islamic State's enemies are making incursions against
it. It is also when Islamic State goes on an offensive.

"Just from a monitoring basis I've noticed a lot more reports coming through
among jihadists that British fighters have died, be that in battle or suicide
operations.

"It's also worth noting that it's not just Islamic State that these numbers are
derived from, and there has been very fierce fighting in northern Syria in
particular in which there is a good chance that a few Britons died as well."

The first Briton killed fighting in Syria was Ibrahim al-Mazwagi, 21, from north
London, who died in October 2013. Last month, Talha Asmal, 17, was named as
Britain's youngest suicide bomber after blowing himself up for Isil in an attack
against Iraqi forces.

Asmal, from Dewsbury, West Yorks, reportedly detonated a vehicle fitted with
explosives while fighting for the militant group in Iraq.

Hundreds of Britons are believed to have travelled to Syria to fight. The police
and MI5 fear that some of those who have returned will use their training and
experience to plan attacks in Britain.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said that it "remain[ed] a priority to try to
prevent people travelling to join terrorist groups" in Syria, adding: "We will
continue to work with our partners and the authorities to combat this risk and
prevent tragedies."

This week Sir Michael Wilshaw, the head of Ofsted, warned that children could be
running away to join Isil but are able to escape the attentions of police
because schools are not obliged to report if they stop attending classes.

Police have smashed a suspected Islamist terror plot to attack the UK after
officers swooped on three men.

One man was held at gunpoint in a coordinated operation in Hertfordshire and
Bedfordshire yesterday. The man, in his 20s, was arrested at a business address
in Letchworth. Two other men, aged in their 20s and 30s, were arrested in Luton.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Talha Asmal, 17, was named as Britain's youngest suicide bomber after
blowing himself up for Isil

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gap year girl: My terror as attacker waving machete said he would kill me

BYLINE: Matt Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 419 words


A LONDON student told today of her horror at being attacked by a man wielding a
machete during a gap year volunteer mission in South Africa.

Shocked Jessica Cremin, 21, feared for her life when she was targeted while
waiting outside a church to take children from a crime-ridden township to
school.

"It was terrifying," said Miss Cremin, who was standing with two South African
project volunteers in the Walmer area of Port Elizabeth. "The man waved the
machete and swung it at me a few times, saying, 'I'm going to kill you'.

"I was just saying, 'I'm sorry'. He was shouting things that I couldn't
understand about Princess Diana and Prince Charles and the royal family. He
obviously wasn't happy that a British person was there. We ran and hid in a
house. He was parading up and down, shouting he was going to kill us. We were
hiding for about an hour. I've never been more scared in my life."

Miss Cremin, from Wandsworth, had been chosen from thousands of applicants for
the International Citizen Service's Lattitude programme.

She was just seven days into a 10-week placement on a project financed by the
Department for International Development in the Walmer township. The attack came
three days after armed burglars broke into a fellow volunteer's home where she
was staying in the community.

Miss Cremin, who was involved in the project after taking a gap year from her
international development degree at the University of East London, said the
machete-wielding man lunged toward her at 8am on June 15.

She flew home on June 18 with five fellow British volunteers from the project,
who all felt unsafe because of the attack and the armed burglary.

They had been helping at a school and a drug and alcohol centre in one of the
Eastern Cape's poorest areas. Miss Cremin said there should be full safety
assessments of the project and others like it marketed in the UK. The attack
follows the deaths of students Summer Robertson, 21, and Alice Barnett, 19, who
drowned while swimming in dangerous rip tides while on the same Lattitude
project in December. An inquest in Shropshire last month heard that Lattitude
chief executive Joanne Smithson brought in new safety measures after an internal
investigation into the deaths.

An estimated 2.5 million young people in the UK take a gap break each year, with
about 40 per cent of them travelling alone.

A spokesman for Lattitude was unavailable for comment.

'He was shouting about the royal family and was obviously not happy that a
British person was there' Jessica Cremin

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Targeted: aid project volunteer Jessica Cremin was threatened by a
machetewielding attacker as she waited outside a church in a South African
township

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Gap year girl: My terror as attacker waving machete said he would kill me

BYLINE: Matt Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 453 words


A LONDON student told today of her horror at being attacked by a man wielding a
machete during a gap year volunteer mission in South Africa.

Jessica Cremin, 21, feared for her life when she was targeted while waiting
outside a church to take children from a crime-ridden town-ship to school.

"It was terrifying," said Miss Cremin, who was standing with two South African
project volunteers in the Walmer area of Port Elizabeth. "The man waved the
machete and swung it at me a few times, saying, 'I'm going to kill you'.

"I was just saying, 'I'm sorry'. He was shouting things that I couldn't
understand about Princess Diana and Prince Charles and the royal family. He
obviously wasn't happy that a British person was there. We ran and hid in a
house. He was parading up and down, shouting he was going to kill us. We were
hiding for about an hour. I've never been more scared in my life."

Miss Cremin, from Wandsworth, had been chosen from thousands of applicants for
the International Citizen Service's Lattitude programme.

Miss Cremin, who is on a gap year from her international development degree at
the University of East London, was two weeks into a 10-week placement on a
project financed by the Department for International Development in the Walmer
township. The attack came three days after armed burglars broke into a fellow
volunteer's home where she was staying in the community.

Miss Cremin flew home three days after the attack, with five fellow British
volunteers who said they felt unsafe. They had been helping at a school and a
drug and alcohol centre in one of the Eastern Cape's poorest areas.

The attack follows the deaths of students Summer Robertson, 21, and Alice
Barnett, 19, who drowned while swimming in dangerous rip tides while on the same
Lattitude project in December. An inquest in Shropshire last month heard that
Lattitude chief executive Joanne Smithson brought in new safety measures after
an internal investigation into the deaths.

A spokesman from Lattitude Global Volunteering said: "None of the volunteers
were physically harmed. Lattitude responded quickly by moving all volunteers
from their accommodation in the community while the incident was investigated
and further risk assessments were carried out.

"The local community is now walking with volunteers to their work placement to
ensure they can move around the area safely. Volunteers were consulted on
whether the incident should be reported to the police and decided not to make a
formal report. Lattitude takes volunteer safety extremely seriously and full
risk assessments are undertaken on all its projects."

'He was shouting about the royal family and was obviously not happy that a
British person was there' Jessica Cremin

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Targeted: aid project volunteer Jessica Cremin was threatened by a
machetewielding attacker as she waited outside a church in a South African
township

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 2:53 PM GMT

Azad Merzai called visitor to Kirklees Council office a terrorist before
attacking him, court told;
Merzai, of Netherton, was found guilty of the December 8 attack following a
trial at Kirklees Magistrates' Court

BYLINE: By Emma Davison

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 362 words


A man attending council offices was punched and accused of being a terrorist.

Karwan Ali was attacked by Azad Merzai during his visit to Kirklees Council's
Civic Centre 3 on December 8.

Merzai, of Coppice Drive in Netherton, had denied the assault but was found
guilty after a trial.

Kirklees magistrates heard that Merzai had mental health issues as his solicitor
told how at a previous hearing he had tried to quote excerpts from the Bible.

The court heard that both the 30-year-old and Mr Ali were visiting the Market
Street building, which houses several council departments.

Alex Bozman, prosecuting, said: "The complainant in the case was about to leave
and he heard Mr Merzai call him a terrorist.

"He spoke in Persian and Mr Ali could understand that language."

The court heard that Mr Ali challenged Merzai about his comment and some staff
members at the Civic Centre advised him to ignore the 30-year-old and leave.

Mr Bozman said: "Mr Ali was upset but did what he was asked. Mr Merzai followed
him out and started punching him about the head with force.

"Mr Ali tried to block his punches and in doing so sustained cuts and scratches.
Also Mr Merzai slammed his head against a glass window, which gave him a
headache."

The incident was witnessed by a staff member who confirmed Mr Ali's version of
events.

Mr Ali was escorted to an office for his own safety and police were called.

Magistrates heard that Merzai had no convictions prior to the assault.

Neil Murphy, mitigating, said that his client maintained his innocence but
suffered from health issues and had undergone a psychiatric assessment.

He added: "On a previous occasion he wished to make reference to extracts from
the bible, (he) feel's he's being persecuted.

"It's sad that this case had to come before the criminal justice system. The
options in a criminal justice context are not helpful to people like Mr Merzai.

"This gentleman needs help rather than punishment.

"It was an unfortunate incident and one has sympathies with Mr Ali who was going
about his business when this happened."

Magistrates gave Merzai a conditional discharge for two years.

He must still pay £100 compensation to Mr Ali and £150 court costs.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 10:30 PM GMT

Hollande: Jihadists planned terror attacks in France this week - but we stopped
them

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 351 words


FRANCE stopped jihadists from carrying out terror attacks this week, President
Francois Hollande revealed tonight.

GETTY IMAGES

French President Francois Hollande says his country has foiled a terror plot

Four people have been arrested after planning to target French military sites.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said their leader was in contact with
known French jihadists who are currently in prison.

The attackers had planned to strike in January 2016 and were targeting a senior
military official in the south of France.

The four were aged between 16 and 23 and arrested in different places around
France, and one had served in the French military, Mr Cazeneuve said.

EPA

A vigil after the Charlie Hebdo Shootings

The news comes after the Paris terror attacks which left 20 people dead in
January this year.

It began when brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi entered the offices of
Paris-based satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and killed 12.

During a three-day reign of terror a policewoman was also shot dead and five
people were killed in a siege at a Jewish supermarket.

Just minutes before the hostage situation at Hypercacher ended when armed police
stormed the building killing the perpetrator, the Kouachi brothers were also
shot dead by officers at a seperate location.

Lyon

A woman being arrested in connection with the Lyon terror attack

Last month Yassin Sali, 35, attacked a gas factory near the city of Lyon by
ramming his car into an area containing flammable liquids.

Sali's boss at a delivery firm was found beheaded along with flags displaying
Islamist writings.

Sali had tied Herve Cornara's head to a fence in the suburb of
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier.

Earlier this week armed criminals held up a branch of Primark in the northern
Parisian suburb of Villeneuve-la-Garenne.

It is still not clear whether it was a terrorism related incident.

Related articles Calls for Charlie Hebdo-style anti-terror marches as three
Muslims shot dead in US Charlie Hebdo boss feared for his life after 'suspected
radical Islamists stalked him' Al-Qaeda chief behind Charlie Hebdo terror
attacks killed by US drone

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 3:50 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hundreds line streets for funeral of ex-Birmingham City
footballer

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 871 words


MOURNERS have lined the streets to pay their respects to a former Birmingham
City player and his wife who were brutally murdered in the Tunisia beach
massacre.

ROSS PARRY LNP

Denis and Elaine Thwaites were killed in the Tunisia beach attacks  Related
articles  United in grief: Britain remembers victims of Tunisia terror...
Tunisia attack: Hundreds gather to say emotional farewell to...

Former Blues player Denis Thwaites, 70, and his wife Elaine, 69, from Blackpool
in Lancashire, were among the 30 British holidaymakers killed by crazed
ISIS-inspired gunman Seifeddine Rezgui in last month's terror attack in the
resort of Sousse.

Today the seaside town of Lytham St Annes came to a complete standstill as the
funeral cortege arrived outside the Fairhaven United Reform Church, with the
service to be conducted by Reverend David Phillips.

Well-wishers looked on as they wiped tears from their eyes and embraced each
other.

The order of service, which was handed out to the congregation, included a photo
of the couple happily smiling.

As their coffins were brought into the church, Amazing Grace was played on the
organ to the scores of mourners.

Cream lilies and roses lined the insides of the two silver funeral cars.

ROSS PARRY

Floral tributes were left outside the church

The couple were described as "two lovely, beautiful and precious people" to the
several hundreds of mourners who have turned out to pay their respects.

Mourners heard that the couple, who had made Blackpool their home for the past
35 years, had looked forward to their trip to Tunisia having landed in the
resort two days prior.

Mrs Thwaites was said to have been "like a bottle of pop - all fizzed up inside"
with excitement, and had been counting down the days to their holiday.

The couple were parents to Lindsey, who said that her parents were "the kindest,
most caring, loving parents any daughter could wish for".

Reverend Phillips told the congregation that everyone had been "acutely aware of
our helplessness" towards the "terrible thing that has happened", saying "hearts
have been broken, lives have been deeply scarred".

LNP

The funeral of Denis and Elaine Thwaites took place today

He added: "Two lovely, beautiful and precious people have had their lives taken
from them, without cause, and with a violence that was wholly undeserved.

"The sorrow that we carry today will take a long time to ease. It is unlikely
ever to pass away from those who loved Elaine and Denis the most.

"What was done was an ugly, brutal and inexcusable crime."

Mr Thwaites, who was born in Stockton-on-Tees, played for Birmingham City from
1962 to 1972 after joining the club as an amateur in 1960.

He was part of the squad that won the club's first major honour - the 1963
League Cup - but retired aged just 27.

His elder sister Sandra, paying tribute, said that it was through her brother's
talent as a footballer "that his life and the life of the whole family would be
changed and shaped forever".

Mr Thwaites appeared in Birmingham City's first team as a 16-year-old in 1961
before turning professional the following year and also played for England at
schoolboy level.

ROSS PARRY

Mourners pay tribute to the couple

At the time of his death, the club posted in Twitter: "We are deeply shocked and
saddened by the death of former player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine in the
Tunisian terrorist attack.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family. The club also offers its condolences to
all who are mourning loved ones due to this atrocity."

Former team-mate Garry Pendrey also paid tribute to a "lovely, lovely man" and a
"terrific player".

He said: "He had tremendous ability. He could go past people, score goals.

"Unfortunately he wasn't really able to reproduce his talents on a consistent
basis, he had a problem with nerves."

Mr Thwaites helped second division Birmingham City hold Manchester United, whose
players included George Best, Bobby Charlton and Denis Law, to a 2-2 draw in an
FA Cup tie in February 1969.

Reverend Phillips said that Blues legend Joe Gallagher had also described him as
"an absolutely lovely man" who "always had a big smile on his face".

ROSS PARRY

A collection for the Alzheimers Society sits outside the church

Mr Thwaites was with the side for 10 years before retiring at the tender age of
27.

He then went on to work as a hospital porter for the NHS at Blackpool Victoria
Hospital while his "hard-working" wife was employed in the hospitality industry.

Touching floral tributes were laid outside the church.

One read: "For Elaine and Denis. So many happy memories in our hearts always,
Elaine, Mark, Anissa and Lauren."

Another said: "Denis, who was a joy to know. With much love, Vivien and all the
family."

A third read: "May the sunshine shine on you in heaven. God Bless, Sally and
Andy".

A private burial was due to follow the funeral and donations will be made to the
Alzheimer's Society.

Related articles Tunisia terror threat: 'Disappointed' Britons criticise
Government as they return home Tunisia attack: Hundreds pay tribute to 'best
parents in the world' and a 'family rock' Gym owner apologises after telling
people terror attacks could 'inspire you to get fit' Arabs should lead invasion
on ISIS strongholds NOT Britain, says Ukip

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 10:51 PM GMT

Four arrested in France for planning terrorism attacks, confirms minister;
Newspaper claims suspects planned to attack a military site in January and
decapitate a high-ranking officer, broadcasting the event on the internet

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


French police have arrested four suspects, including a former naval recruit, on
suspicion of planning terrorist attacks on military bases.

The arrests, made on Monday, were announced by President François Hollande and
confirmed by the interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve.

Cazeneuve said the four individuals, aged between 16 and 23, were "planning to
commit a terrorist act against military sites".

Their plan was uncovered after the principal subject's online activities raised
investigators' suspicions, Cazeneuve said. The subject had allegedly made plans
to leave for Syria.

"The inquiry is continuing, and the legal authorities will give more information
when appropriate," said Cazeneuve.

The minister insisted, however, that investigators had not made any link between
the arrested suspects and the theft of explosives and hand grenades from a
military base in the Bouches-du-Rhône earlier in July.

Investigators have not found any links between the suspects and two explosions
at a petrochemical plant in southern France, Cazeneuve said.

Le Monde reported that the four suspects were planning to attack an unspecified
military site in January next year and decapitate a high-ranking officer,
recording the murder with a GoPro camera so it could be broadcast on the
internet.

The minister said authorities managed to break up similar plots every week in
France, where more than 300 people have been implicated in jihadi activities
since 2012.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 15, 2015
                                 First Edition

Back in business, but will the shoppers return to Westgate?;
KENYA Kenyans want an inquiry into the terror attack that left 67 dead. By
Catrina Stewart in Nairobi

BYLINE: Catrina Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 720 words


The bullet holes have been plastered over, the shattered glass restored. Two
years after terror struck at Westgate in Nairobi, the upscale shopping mall is
set to reopen amid many unanswered questions over what happened during the
four-day siege.

Once a symbol of Kenya's aspirational middle-class, Westgate has come to
represent President Uhuru Kenyatta's failure to combat a growing Islamist terror
threat on its own soil. As city officials yesterday toured the site of one of
Kenya's worst terror attacks, where Somalia's al-Shabaab slaughtered at least 67
people as they dined and shopped, it was easy to forget that anything grisly
ever happened here.

Workmen were putting the finishing touches to many of the same shops and
restaurants that were there before, while the flagship Nakumatt superstore,
where shoppers cowered behind shelves as the gunmen picked them off, is bigger
than ever.

But as the shopping centre prepares to welcome its first shoppers on Saturday,
some are critical of the decision to resume business while so much remains
unknown and in the absence of an inquiry promised by the Kenyan President. "By
building the mall, we are covering over everything that we don't know," said
Patrick Gathara, a satirical cartoonist for Kenya's Daily Nation newspaper.
"It's a symbol of our continued and deliberate ignorance."

Ahead of US President Barack Obama's visit to Kenya later this month, the
message from the government, however, was one of defiance. Nairobi governor
Evans Kidero yesterday paid tribute to Kenyans' "indomitable spirit". "I say to
Nairobians: Let's turn out on Saturday," he told reporters outside the mall.
"Kenya is safer than ever. If it wasn't, Obama wouldn't be coming."

It was just before lunchtime on Saturday 21 September 2013 when at least four
gunmen overran unarmed security guards at the mall's entrance. Josephine
Mutungi, who owned a small music stall on the second floor, initially thought it
was a robbery when gunmen with scarves wrapped around their heads, cigarettes in
their hand, fired at the windows of the store where she was hiding. The glass
remained intact.

The handling of the siege quickly descended into recriminations after reports of
bungling by the security forces, conflicting accounts over the death toll and
widespread looting of shops by Kenyan soldiers and policemen. President
Kenyatta, whose nephew died in the attack, assured Kenyans of an inquiry, but an
investigation into what happened during those four days has never taken place.

Kenyans watched the tragedy unfold on their television screens with growing
dismay as officials issued increasingly bizarre statements suggesting they had
taken control of the mall, when in fact they had not, and passing off a massive
explosion staged by the military as burning mattresses.

An early failure to establish who was in charge of the operation led to the
"friendly fire" killing of a police commander, allowing the terrorists to
regroup and regain the upper hand.

The hashtag "we are one" that symbolised Kenyan unity quickly changed to "we are
wondering". Within days of the end of the siege, store owners returned to find
looted shops. The blame quickly fell on security forces after CCTV footage
emerged showing soldiers walking out of Nakumatt holding plastic bags stuffed
with goods. The death toll also remains in dispute, the Kenyan Red Cross saying
that several people reported missing were still unaccounted for weeks after the
attack. Witnesses also reported attackers slipping out of the mall in the
confusion, contradicting the official narrative that they were all killed.

With much still in question, the reopening of Westgate has been an oddly muted
affair, with little publicity and store owners still unsure as recently as three
weeks ago about the actual opening date.

Ms Mutungi, the music shop owner, said she had little desire to return but
Nakumatt, where she is a tenant, has already taken her wares back to the mall.
"We are still waiting for answers," she said. "I'm more disappointed that they
didn't investigate the looting. The KDF [Kenyan Defence Forces] had a field
day."

Others argue, though, that Kenyans must look forward. "It's like if a member of
our family dies. It doesn't mean that we stop," said Saira Karim, manager of the
ground-floor Diamond Watch store. "We move on."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The Westgate mall massacre: two years on;
21 September 2013 Al-Shabaab gunmen storm Nairobi's upmarket Westgate shopping
mall, beginning a four-day siege that would claim 67 lives and leave 175 wounded
18 July 2015 The scene of one of Kenya's worst terror attacks will reopen to the
public. But with an inquiry into the deaths yet to take place, will the shoppers
return? Two years after terror siege killed 67, Nairobi shopping mall reopens

BYLINE: SPECIAL REPORT BY CATRINA STEWART

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 849 words


The bullet holes are plastered over, the shattered glass restored. Two years
after terror struck at Westgate in Nairobi, the upscale shopping mall is set to
reopen amid many unanswered questions over what happened during the four-day
siege.

Once a symbol of Kenya's aspirational middle-class, Westgate has come to
represent President Uhuru Kenyatta's failure to combat a growing Islamist terror
threat on its own soil. As city officials yesterday toured the site of one of
Kenya's worst terror attacks, where Somalia's al-Shabaab slaughtered at least 67
people as they dined and shopped, it was easy to forget the grisly events that
happened here.

Workmen were putting the finishing touches to many of the original shops and
restaurants, while the flagship Nakumatt superstore, where shoppers cowered
behind shelves as the gunmen picked them off, is bigger than ever.

But as the shopping centre prepares to welcome its first shoppers on Saturday,
some are critical of the decision to resume business while so much remains
unknown - and in the absence of an inquiry promised by the Kenyan President. "By
rebuilding the mall, we are covering over everything that we don't know," said
Patrick Gathara, a satirical cartoonist for Kenya's Daily Nation newspaper.
"It's a symbol of our continued and deliberate ignorance."

Ahead of US President Barack Obama's visit to Kenya later this month, the
message from the government, however, was one of defiance. Nairobi Governor
Evans Kidero yesterday paid tribute to Kenyans' "indomitable spirit."

"I say to Nairobians: let's turn out on Saturday," he told reporters outside the
mall. "Kenya is safer than ever. If it wasn't, Obama wouldn't be coming."

It was just before lunchtime on a Saturday when at least four gunmen overran
unarmed security guards at the mall's entrance in September 2013. Josephine
Mutungi, who owned a small music stall on the second floor, initially thought it
was a robbery, a delusion quickly shattered when gunmen with scarves wrapped
around their heads, cigarettes in their hand, fired at the windows of the store
where she was hiding. The glass remained intact.

The handling of the siege quickly descended into recriminations after reports of
bungling by the security forces, conflicting accounts over the death toll and
widespread looting of shops by Kenyan soldiers and police. President Kenyatta,
whose nephew died in the attack, assured Kenyans of an inquiry, but an
investigation into what happened during those four days has never taken place.

Kenyans watched the tragedy unfold on their television screens with growing
dismay as officials issued increasingly bizarre statements suggesting they had
taken control of the mall, when in fact they had not, and passing off a massive
explosion staged by the military as burning mattresses.

An early failure to establish who was in charge of the operation led to the
"friendly fire" killing of a police commander, allowing the terrorists to
regroup.

The hashtag, "we are one," that symbolised Kenyan unity, quickly changed to "we
are wondering." Within days of the end of the siege, store owners returned to
find looted shops. The blame quickly fell on security forces after CCTV footage
emerged showing soldiers walking out of Nakumatt with bags of goods. The death
toll also remains in dispute, the Kenyan Red Cross says several people reported
missing were unaccounted for weeks after the attack. Witnesses also reported
attackers slipping out of the mall in the confusion, contradicting the official
narrative that they were all killed.

With much still in question, the reopening of Westgate has been an oddly muted
affair.

Ms Mutungi, the music shop owner, said she had little desire to return but
Nakumatt, where she is a tenant, has taken her wares back to the mall. "We are
still waiting for answers," she said. "I'm more disappointed that they didn't
investigate the looting." In an odd twist, a man she thought was an off-duty
policeman came to one of her music stores trying to sell her a saxophone that
had been taken from her Westgate stall. Others argue, though, that Kenyans must
look forward. "It's like if a member of our family dies. It doesn't mean that we
stop," said Saira Karim, manager of the ground-floor Diamond Watch store. "We
move on."

Since Westgate, terror attacks have become a feature of Kenyan life. Al-Shabaab
has sworn to wage jihad on the East African nation as long as its troops remain
part of an African Union force in Somalia that has pushed the group out of key
towns.

In the worst attack since the 1998 US embassy bombings in Nairobi, al-Shabaab
killed at least 148 people, mainly students, at a university in northern Kenya
in April.

Deteriorating security has persuaded Britain to join a string of countries
advising its nationals against travel to large swathes of Kenya's coast. Dozens
of hotels have closed down, and tens of thousands of people have lost their
jobs, ravaging the tourist industry. The government has responded by targeting
Somalia and, more widely, Muslim communities, an approach criticised by security
experts and rights groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 1:11 PM BST

DAVID CAMERON REJECTS CALL TO HALT DRONE ATTACKS ON TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Elizabeth Barrett, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


The Prime Minister has said he would reply ``very firmly no'' to the notion that
Britain should give up the idea of using drones ``in extremis to take out people
that are threatening our country and terrorism on our streets''.

David Cameron gave his response after being pressed on the issue of using drones
at Prime Minister's Questions by Conservative former International Development
Secretary Andrew Mitchell.

Mr Mitchell (Sutton Coldfield) raised concerns over the loss of civilian lives
through collateral damage.

Mr Mitchell said: ``He has indicated over the weekend that he would like to see
greater use made of drones in the fight against terrorism. But is he aware that
for every terrorist taken out by a drone, between five and ten innocent
civilians, especially women and children lose their lives.

``Will he accept that as we seek to win hearts and minds in this conflict
against the evils of terrorism we need to bear in mind this effect.''

Mr Cameron replied: ``Of course we always have to think very carefully before we
act but the rules of engagement that both Britain and America follow are to
limit collateral damage to the absolute minimum.

``But if he is asking me should Britain give up the idea of using drones in
extremis to take out people that are threatening our country and terrorism on
our streets I would say very firmly no.''

``But I would say something to him that I'm sure we both agree with, which is as
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said, a missile can kill a terrorist, but it is
good governance and strong governance that can kill terrorism.''

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday

Bastille Day security up after terror attack

BYLINE: Thomas Adamson

LENGTH: 378  words


France celebrated Bastille Day yesterday with a spectacular display of fighter
jets - and with anti-terror forces marching in the yearly parade in Paris for
the first time, as the country's leadership attempted to show its muscle against
extremists at home and abroad.

The national holiday came after the country was hit by terror attacks in January
that killed 20 people, including the three attackers, and after an extremist
beheaded his employer last month and caused an explosion that injured two
people.

President Francois Hollande presided over the yearly parade on the
Champs-Elysees, meeting and greeting members of the military. Alongside him was
his guest of honour, Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto, whose government is
smarting following the audacious prison break of a major drug lord.

Mr Hollande called on the French to remain "united" and not to give in to
"fear". This was a special tribute to the role of the country's special forces
in neutralising the Charlie Hebdo and Hyper Cacher terrorists.

Some 11,200 police and military forces were out on the streets in the Paris
area, with snipers in position and officers having the means to neutralise
drones or other flying objects.

Spectator Philippe Bastelisa, 55, who lives in Paris, said "it was really
important that [security forces] participated in the parade, considering the
situation right now and the drama of the beginning of the year."

Katy-Pauli Giraud, 58, led a group of spectators from Calais to the festivities
and said it was "great" there was heightened protection against threats on such
an important holiday. "I'm not scared. I feel secure," she said.

The parade gave special recognition to the three armies, more than 10,000
soldiers, who participated in France's stepped-up security measures following
the attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

For the first time, accolades also went to emergency first-responders as well as
several elite units of the national police force and gendarmerie specialising in
counter-terror and hostage kidnappings.

President Hollande additionally commemorated the 70th anniversary of France's
liberation from Nazi Germany, saluting members of France's Order of Liberation.

The spectacle included nearly 100 military planes and helicopters.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      July 15, 2015 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT

Gap year girl: My terror as attacker waving machete said he would kill me

BYLINE: Matt Watts

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 434 words


A London student told today of her horror at being attacked by a man wielding a
machete during a gap year volunteer mission in South Africa.

Jessica Cremin, 21, feared for her life when she was targeted while waiting
outside a church to take children from a crime-ridden town-ship to school.

"It was terrifying," said Miss Cremin, who was standing with two South African
project volunteers in the Walmer area of Port Elizabeth. "The man waved the
machete and swung it at me a few times, saying, 'I'm going to kill you'.

"I was just saying, 'I'm sorry'. He was shouting things that I couldn't
understand about Princess Diana and Prince Charles and the royal family. He
obviously wasn't happy that a British person was there. We ran and hid in a
house. He was parading up and down, shouting he was going to kill us. We were
hiding for about an hour. I've never been more scared in my life."

Miss Cremin, from Wandsworth, had been chosen from thousands of applicants for
the International Citizen Service's Lattitude programme.

Miss Cremin, who is on a gap year from her international development degree at
the University of East London, was two weeks into a 10-week placement on a
project financed by the Department for International Development in the Walmer
township.

The attack came three days after armed burglars broke into a fellow volunteer's
home where she was staying in the community.

Miss Cremin flew home three days after the attack, with five fellow British
volunteers who said they felt unsafe. They had been helping at a school and a
drug and alcohol centre in one of the Eastern Cape's poorest areas.

The attack follows the deaths of students Summer Robertson, 21, and Alice
Barnett, 19, who drowned while swimming in dangerous rip tides while on the same
Lattitude project in December. An inquest in Shropshire last month heard that
Lattitude chief executive Joanne Smithson brought in new safety measures after
an internal investigation into the deaths.

A spokesman from Lattitude Global Volunteering said: "None of the volunteers
were physically harmed. Lattitude responded quickly by moving all volunteers
from their accommodation in the community while the incident was investigated
and further risk assessments were carried out.

"The local community is now walking with volunteers to their work placement to
ensure they can move around the area safely. Volunteers were consulted on
whether the incident should be reported to the police and decided not to make a
formal report.

"Lattitude takes volunteer safety extremely seriously and full risk assessments
are undertaken on all its projects."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FOILED;
WEEK AFTER 7/7 10TH ANNIVERSARY: BRITISH TERROR ATTACK IN DAYS Gun cops arrest 3
men

BYLINE: MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 437 words


ARMED cops yesterday arrested three jihadi suspects amid fears of an imminent
terrorist attack on British soil.

Officers seized the men in dramatic lunchtime swoops at three addresses a week
after the tenth anniversary of the July 7 bombings.

Sources said a terror plot within days in the UK may have been hatched by Brit
jihadists in Syria to avenge the killing of IS recruiter Abu Rahin Aziz.

Aziz, struck by a US drone in IS Syrian stronghold Raqqa on July 4, was from
Luton, where two were held yesterday.

An IS associate, Junaid Hussain from Birmingham, had warned: "Don't worry UK. We
are preparing for you many more days like #SevenSeven."

Yesterday specialist firearms officers and anti-terror cops arrested a man in
his 20s at 12.45pm at business premises in Letchworth, Herts.

Another man in his 20s and one in his 30s were seized soon after at properties
in Luton.

The Met Police said last night the trio are being held on suspicion "of being
involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism".

The three were kept under surveillance in the build-up to the raids, which were
"part of an ongoing investigation into Islamist-related terrorism".

It added: "No shots were fired. Searches are under way at two addresses in the
Luton area as part of the investigation."

The raids come amid continued heightened tensions of a terrorist atrocity in the
UK - and less than three weeks after The Sun foiled an IS plot to bomb an Armed
Forces Day parade.

The suicide blast was intended to strike soldiers from tragic Lee Rigby's unit
as they passed through Merton, South London.

Last week's 7/7 remembrance commemorations at St Paul's Cathedral and Hyde Park
were surrounded by stringent security.

Similar measures will be in place again tomorrow for a visit by the Queen and
the Duke of Edinburgh to Barking and Dagenham in East London.

There will also be a police presence at Lord's for tomorrow's start of the
Second Test between England and Australia.

IS had called for terror attacks during Ramadan, the traditional month-long
Islamic period of fasting, which ends this Friday.

Aziz was exposed by The Sun last month as being part of its online recruitment
team which grooms young Muslims.

The terrorist and his associates are thought to have helped smuggle hundreds of
Britons into Syria - as well as distributing terror training manuals. In his
will, Aziz left fellow jihadists in the UK boxes of sweets with a card
confirming his so-called "martyrdom".

NINE Britons were arrested in Mongolia on suspicion of terrorism as they toured
China, it emerged last night.

mike.sullivan@the-co.uk

'Searches are under way'

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terror . . Aziz was killed in Syria by droneCentre . . Aziz hailed from
Luton, where two were held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GUN COPS FOIL TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


ANTI-terror cops investigating an imminent attack in the UK yesterday arrested
three men.

One was held at gunpoint in Letchworth, Herts, while two more were arrested in
Luton.

Sources believe Brit jihadists in Syria are behind the plot.

Full Story - Page Five

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      July 16, 2015 Thursday 05:25 AM GMT

France Foils Terrorist Attack On Military Bases, Minister Says

LENGTH: 307 words


PARIS (Alliance News) - French security forces foiled a terrorist attack on
several military installations, Home Minister Bernard Cazeneuve told reporters
late Wednesday.

Four suspects aged 16 to 23 were arrested across the country on Monday, he said,
including a former member of the military special forces.

One of them was known to be in contact with French jihadists, and was under
scrutiny by authorities following his activities on social networks and an
alleged intention to travel to Syria, Cazeneuve said.

The suspects planned to capture and behead a high-ranking soldier from a
military base, newspaper Le Monde reported.

The French military are involved in several campaigns in largely Muslim
countries in Africa and also against Islamic State in northern Iraq, and the
country has been targeted in two high-profile attacks this year.

In June, a chemical plant in south-eastern France was attacked by suspected
Islamist militants who beheaded one man and injured two more.

In January, 12 people were killed at the offices of French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo. The two gunmen died after being surrounded by police at a hideout
north-east of Paris. A policewoman and four hostages at a supermarket were
killed by another Islamist, who was also killed by security forces.

Around 500 French citizens are thought to have joined militants fighting in Iraq
and Syria.

President Francois Hollande said Wednesday during a visit to the southern city
of Marseille that several terrorism attacks were foiled this week, without
providing details.

Cazeneuve said there was no terrorist link so far determined with a suspected
arson case that caused two explosions at a chemical factory in the south of the
country on Tuesday. The government called on a tightening of security protocols
for industrial plants handling hazardous materials.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan court releases suspect linked to Garissa terror attack

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of report by Willis Oketch entitled "Mombasa Court releases key suspect in
Garissa University massacre" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper
The Standard website on 16 July

The High Court in Mombasa [county in Kenya's coastal region] has released a
terror suspect, whom police say was a key planner of the 2 April terrorist
attack at Garissa University College [eastern Kenya], sparking anger within the
police force. Sheikh Mohamed Khalid Ali, a native of Lamu County and resident of
Mombasa's Old Town, was arrested in May and police claimed they found a hand
grenade and plastic explosives in his house in Bondeni.

The officers also claimed the former Imam of Mlango wa Papa Mosque has links
with Jaysh Ayman, a cell of Kenyan and foreign fighters within Al-Shabab, which
has been accused of the aborted 14 June raid on a Kenya Defence Forces (KDF)
camp in Baure in Lamu and subsequent attacks on soft targets. Before Ali was
arrested, elders of the mosque had expelled him in disapproval of his apparent
inflammatory sermons.

Tuesday [14 July], Justice Martin Muya set him free on bond with stringent
conditions. Besides paying a 10m-shilling [96,500 dollars] bond with two
sureties of the same amount, he must report to Directorate of Criminal
Investigations headquarters in Mombasa on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and he is
also banned from leaving Mombasa without the permission of the court and police.

Muya said the prosecution had failed to convince the court that the suspect
would abscond if released on bail.

"The prosecution did not give compelling reasons that the suspect who is in the
prison would abscond when released on bond," said Muya.

But the judge's order did not go down well with the anti-terrorist police, who
complained that their efforts to fight terrorism were being hampered by the
judiciary, which does not appreciate the suffering they undergo while looking
for most wanted terrorists. A senior anti-terror police who did no want to be
named cited a case where a suspect was released on 20m shillings [193,000
dollars] but still disappeared.

"We are sometimes at a loss because we do all we can to apprehend some of these
dangerous suspects who later find their way back in the society," he said.

The prosecution had opposed his release on bond, arguing he was facing a serious
offence, which was of public interest and that he could abscond if freed on
bond. The police also opposed the bail.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 16 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 16, 2015 Thursday 4:10 PM GMT

Hundreds attend Perth funeral of Tunisia terror attack victims;
Private thanksgiving service for the popular Bankfoot couple Billy and Lisa
Graham was held in the Fair City's Crieff Road Crematorium

BYLINE: By Alison Lowson

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1143 words


The funeral of Billy and Lisa Graham, who were killed in last month's terror
attacks in Tunisia, took place on Monday.

Attended by around 300 mourners and led by the Reverend Sydney Graham, the
private thanksgiving service for the popular Bankfoot couple was held in Perth
Crematorium on Crieff Road at noon.

The Grahams were visiting the resort of Sousse to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th
birthday.

Mr Graham (51) had worked as a turnstile operator at St Johnstone Football Club
for seven years, having previously served for 22 years in the 5th Royal
Inniskilling Dragoon Guards, who were represented at the funeral.

Mr and Mrs Graham were among the 30 Britons who died in the attack on June 26,
which killed 38 people. Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian also died.

During the service, Rev Graham said: "In the stands of the universe, cheering us
on, envelop Holly with our love and give thanks for the difference that they
have made.

"They were senselessly, unjustifiably murdered.

"But love is stronger than death.

"Light our hearts with bright needles of light."

And he read out words from Billy's older brother Louis, describing the sibling's
words as short but profound: "My fondest memories of Billy was his willingness
to help people. A nicer and more genuine couple you could not meet. He was my
wee brother, but a giant to all our family."

Daughter Holly Graham (29)delivered a moving and beautiful eulogy.

She said: "Dad was always cracking mad jokes. He was forever singing - it drove
us mad but never failed to make us laugh and smile."

Holly continued, her voice breaking as she spoke: "Dad was a very strong and
brave man, but deep down he was the biggest softie you could ever meet and would
do anything for anyone.

"He was my hero and always will be.

"Mum was beautiful inside and out. She was the life and soul of every party. She
worshiped the sun, be it on holiday or in her back garden.

"Mum's laugh was infectious. I just hope I can be at least half the woman my mum
was.

"My parents truly were the best parents in the world. Dad always knew what to
say to cheer me up and mum was always ready to listen to my needs.

"I'm going to miss them so much. I am so very proud to be their daughter and I
will continue to do my best.

"Sleep tight mum and dad. I love you."

There was a wave of applause from mourners in the crematorium.

Rev Graham continued: "Billy and Lisa had a lovely relationship. They created
and they enjoyed a beautiful home and garden, and they worked hard in the wider
community.

"Today your presence means more than any words of mine. They touched your lives
in so many ways: Perth Grammar and enchanted evenings at the Wheelhouse hotel,
which sparked and lit their relationship .

"Wherever Billy went, Lisa went too. That's army life. Twenty-two years loyally
serving us, serving Queen and country in the 5th Royal Inniskilling Dragoon
Guards, today the Royal Dragoon guards.

"Some here will remember service life, particularly in Germany and Northern
Ireland and others the Factory Shop, nursery and after school clubs, in
community care with the council and the private sector."

Rev Graham touched on Billy's years at the St Johnstone turnstiles: "Seven years
providing a warm welcome at the turnstiles, where recently 6,000 fans made known
their admiration, respect and support, both in silence and in spontaneous
applause."

He explained how the couple had worked hard to return to Tunisia to celebrate
Lisa's birthday.

"We are devastated, and it's outrageous and unbelievable what happened to them
as they enjoyed a well-earned rest in the sun.

"But love is stronger than death and no irrational act of man's inhumanity to
man can ever defeat the power of love."

Privately he told the PA how the Bankfoot vigil held nearly two weeks ago had
moved him by the great strength of feeling displayed: "Ten days ago the
community gathered in the local playpark in a massive vigil, making a stand,
showing support for Billy and Lisa in the witness of light as they all lit their
candles to curse the darkness."

Rev Graham ended by saying: "We commit ourselves to reflect the power of your
love, the dedicated teamwork, your courage, yes your humour, and your integrity.
The light indeed shines on with us."

Afterwards Bankfoot councillor John Kellas told the PA how touched he was to be
part of the thanksgiving service.

"Today people have come to see closure. As a community they have been
exceptionally supportive, they've come together in away I have never seen
before."

Cllr Kellas said he knew the couple "just in passing", but understood them to be
very well liked.

"That this happened because of terrorism is the part most difficult to come to
grips with. We see it in media, but never think it will touch us.

"I was in Tunisia with my wife in March, and this made us think we could equally
have been effected. We've all got to keep steadfast."

The service was attended by several serving soldiers and around 25
ex-servicemen, coming from as far afield as York, Merseyside and Kent.

Billy was in the Royal Inniskilling Dragoon Guards for 22 years, becoming a
warrant officer Class Two.

Retired major, Graeme Green, served with Billy for six years when they were
corporals together. He spoke after the service: "I was incredibly moved today.
It is sad, you give your life to the state, you finish and than die on holiday."

A lone bugler, trooper Matthew Dixons (22) came from the Dragoon Guards base at
Catterick in North Yorkshire. He played the Last Post in front of the two
coffins. Afterwards the young soldier admitted: "I was nervous, I've never done
this before."

Piper Bruce Hamilton served with Billy in Germany and came from the Borders. He
explained why he had come: "It's been 20 years since I last saw Billy. I had
tried to contact him for a reunion, but then the terrible news came.

"I have great memories of Billy and Lisa. I volunteered to play at the service
as soon as I found out what had happened."

Mr Hamilton played Bonny Dundee, Bengullion, Steamboat and other pipe tunes as
mourners arrived.

As the mourners were dispersing towards McDiarmid Park he said: "I thought Holly
did brilliantly."

Another Army musician, Pipe Major Warren played as friends and family left the
chapel. "I feel for the family," he said.

Floral tributes outside were moving in their simple messages of love for the
couple: "My best friend I will never forget you. I will miss you both so much."

Another said: "Billy and Lisa, you lived life together, now you're together for
ever in our hearts."

"Your time together was cut too short, but may you both be safe in God's loving
arms."

Among the other messages outside the chapel was one other flower tribute, sent
by the holiday company that arranged the trip to Tunisia.

The note read: "The whole of Thomson and First Choice extends their condolences
to you at this sad time."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Health issues to blame for man's attack on 'terrorist'

BYLINE: Emma Davison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 381 words


A MAN attending council offices was punched and accused of being a terrorist.

Karwan Ali was attacked by Azad Merzai during his visit to Kirklees Council's
Civic Centre 3 on Monday, December 8. Merzai, of Coppice Drive in Netherton, had
denied the assault but was found guilty after a trial.

Kirklees magistrates heard that Merzai had mental health issues as his solicitor
told how at a previous hearing he had tried to quote excerpts from the Bible.

The court heard that both the 30-yearold and Mr Ali were visiting the Market
Street building, which houses several Kirklees council departments.

Alex Bozman, prosecuting, said: "The complainant in the case was about to leave
and he heard Mr Merzai call him a terrorist.

"He spoke in Persian and Mr Ali could understand that language."

The court heard that Mr Ali challenged Merzai about his comment and some staff
members at the Civic Centre advised him to ignore the 30-year-old and leave.

Mr Bozman said: "Mr Ali was upset but did what he was asked.

"Mr Merzai followed him out and started punching him about the head with force.

"Mr Ali tried to block his punches and in doing so sustained cuts and scratches.

"Also Mr Merzai slammed his head against a glass window, which gave him a
headache," he added.

The incident was witnessed by a council staff member who confirmed Mr Ali's
version of events.

Mr Ali was escorted to an office for his own safety and police were called.

Magistrates heard that Merzai had no convictions prior to the assault.

Neil Murphy, mitigating, said that his client maintained his innocence but
suffered from health issues and had undergone a psychiatric assessment. He
added: "On a previous occasion he wished to make reference to extracts from the
Bible.

"He feel's he's being persecuted. "It's sad that this case had to come before
the criminal justice system.

"The options in a criminal justice context are not helpful to people like Mr
Merzai.

"This gentleman needs help rather than punishment.

"It was an unfortunate incident and one has sympathies with Mr Ali who was going
about his business when this happened," Mr Murphy said.

Magistrates gave Merzai a conditional discharge for two years.

He must still pay £100 compensation to Mr Ali and £150 court costs.

Have your say on any of our stories at: www.examiner.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

Terror attack hits holiday shares

SECTION: BUSINESS:AGRICULTURE; Pg. 34-35

LENGTH: 228  words


I t's been a rough and tumble few weeks for the 18 listed county businesses
featured in our list. Half have seen their share price go down, although most of
those drops have been fairly negligible.

Two notable losers over the month have been Lavendon Group and Thomas Cook.

In June, shares in Lavendon briefly hit 209p, but last Wednesday stood at 183p.

The drop is interesting considering that last Thursday the Lutterworth-based
hydraulic platform rental business - which trades as Nationwide Platforms in the
UK - said revenue for the six months to June 30 was up 3 per cent year-on-year.

It said profitability, margins and returns on capital continued to improve to
the   extent that it was bringing forward around £20 million of fleet investment
from next year to this in order to make the most anticipated future demand.

Meanwhile, Thomas Cook shares dropped 12p to 129.90p over the month.

Trading in the firm was hit following the horrific killings in the Tunisian
resort of Sousse, on June 26.

Significant risers this month included Barratt Developments and Topps Tiles.
Both have benefited in recent months from the need for new homes and home
improvements, as well as clever investment in both businesses.

Meanwhile, Enderby clothes store chain Next, which has seen a rollercoaster ride
for shareholders in recent months, jumped a healthy 220p to 7,545p
month-on-month.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 16, 2015 Thursday 10:15 PM GMT

Chattanooga shootings: Gunman named after shooting dead four Marines during
rampage at military bases;
Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez reportedly opened fire at two naval bases and
military recruitment centres in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in an attack described
as an act of 'domestic terrorism

BYLINE: By Ruth Halkon

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 302 words


A gunman who shot dead four Marines during a shooting rampage at US military
bases has reportedly been named as Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez.

Five died, including the gunman after he opened fire at two naval bases and
military recruitment centres in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in an attack described
as an act of 'domestic terrorism,' CBS News reports.

Three people were also wounded, including a police officer.

One is in critical condition, one was treated and released. The condition of the
third, and officer, is not known.

CBS News reported the gunman was dead a couple of hours after the shootings
began, quoting police sources.

In a tweet, the Chattanooga Police Department said that the situation was over
and that details would be forthcoming.

The shootings appeared to have occurred in at least two locations including the
recruiting center and a U.S. Navy Reserve center about six miles (10 km) away.

Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke confirmed to reporters one police officer was
"down".

He said: "This is a very, very terrible situation and we need to go figure out
how we can handle it," he said.

School on lockdown because of shooting

He had previously tweeted: "Horrific incident in our community.

"We will release details as they are confirmed. Prayers to all those affected."

There are also unconfirmed reports that several Marines have been injured and
killed.

Meanwhile, a witness in Chattanooga told CNN she saw a gunman fire shots at a
building that houses military recruiting offices at around 10.50am local time.

Chattanooga State Community College on its website said there was a shooting and
added: "Everyone stay inside, close doors."

Lee University in Tennessee is also on lockdown, the school said on its website.
It advised people to stay inside until further notice.

Shooting naval base pictures shattered door

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 16, 2015 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT

ISIS-linked terrorist's rocket attack sets navy warship ablaze in Mediterranean;

Photographs distributed online by the Islamist group appeared to show a rocket
heading towards a ship and setting it ablaze on impact.

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 631 words


ISIS forces dramatically blew up a navy ship today in the first sea attack the
extremists have launched.

They fired a deadly rocket salvo at the Egyptian patrol boat which burst into
flames as it patrolled the Mediterranean off northern Sinai.

A coastguard vessel just two miles out to sea had earlier opened fire on
militants on the coast of northern Sinai, which borders Israel and Gaza.

When heavily armed fighters fired back they opened up with suspected rocket
propelled grenades which smashed into the boat's side, exploding on impact.

The ship regularly patrols the coast there and it is thought ISIS jihadis may
have lain in wait for it.

It is thought to be the first sea attack by the Islamic State to hit a target.

ISIS has a foothold of around 2,000 fighters on Sinai - a peninsula whose
southern tip is popular with British holidaymakers including the resort of Sharm
el Sheikh.

The terror network established itself in Sinai around six months ago.

Fortunately there were no fatalities among the vessel's crew in the shootout,
according to Egyptian military spokesman, Brigadier General Mohammed Samir.

Several crew members suffered injuries.

ISIS declared their presence on Sinai - a peninsula popular with British
holidaymakers - last November when up to 2,000 members of the already
established jihadi group Ansar Bait al-Maqdis swore allegiance to ISIS' leader
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

An AFP photographer and a witness in the Palestinian Gaza Strip, just across the
border, said the boat was struck at least two miles from shore.

Photographer Ahmed Nofal said: "We were sitting on the beach and suddenly there
was an explosion."

Other navy boats came to rescue the crew as their vessel burned on the high
seas.

Another witness fisherman Abu Ibrahim Mohammed from Gaza said the vessel was
struck by a rocket.

He did not hear the explosion but saw two smaller boats later trying to put out
the fire and that a third, larger one later arrived and towed the burned vessel
away.

Two speed boats were seen later combing the area as gunshots occasionally rang
out, he added.

The vessel, according to the security officials, routinely patrols Egyptian
territorial waters and has frequently been used to transport army and police
personnel to mainland Egypt.

The sea route avoids the overland journey through Sinai, where ISIS targets
government forces.

Jihadis loyal to ISIS have killed scores of soldiers and policemen in the
peninsula since the army's overthrow of Egypt's then Islamist president Mohamed
Morsi in 2013.

The militants have also carried out attacks west of the Suez Canal, which
separates the Sinai from the rest of Egypt.

The Egyptian military said in a statement that a coastguard launch had exchanged
shots with "terrorist elements", causing the vessel to catch fire.

Yesterday, the military said it foiled an attempted attack on a military post on
a highway linking Cairo with the Red Sea coast.

The driver of a car that was carrying 1,100 pounds of dynamite refused to stop
at a checkpoint, drawing fire from the troops, the military said.

The car then swerved off the road and the driver was killed, the military said
in a statement.

Egypt faces threats from multiple insurgent factions, including the ISIS
affiliate in Sinai, which the military says killed at least 17 soldiers in a
July 1 assault there.

In another attack claimed by ISIS, Egypt's state prosecutor, Hisham Barakat, was
assassinated in Cairo by a car bomb in late June.

An Israeli military spokeswoman said Israel was not involved in the incident and
had not been asked to assist.

Military sources said the suspected militants had fled after firing on the
vessel.

Al-Qaeda has launched a number of successful sea attacks over the years but this
is believed to be a first for ISIS.

ISIS claim missile strike on Egypt navy boat

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 St Helens Star

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

St Helens couple describe how they ran for their lives during Tunisia terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Paula Morris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


A RETIRED couple have described for the first time of how they barricaded
themselves into their room as a gunman opened fire at their hotel and its
private beach in Tunisia.

The terrorist attack, at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in Sousse, saw 38 people
- 30 of them British - lose their lives and others injured.

For Sylvia and Frank Doyle, of Chester Lane, Sutton Manor it was a last-minute
holiday, booked just two weeks before going.

Sylvia, 69, said: "It was horrific. We were next to the pool and heard the noise
- it sounded like a firecracker.

"I was screaming and shaking. We got into our room, locked the door and pushed
furniture up against it.

"Some people just ran and left their bags by the sun lounger so couldn't get
into their rooms."

Former miner Frank, 75, said: "We spent our days around the pool - that's what
we like doing.

"When we heard the gunfire getting closer, we ran and got in the lift. We were
lucky our sun loungers were near the lift.

"We had another couple with us because they didn't have their key."

Frank said: "It started from the beach and then came through the hotel. He
started shooting in through the windows then moved inside to the swimming pool
and reception areas."

The couple, who have three children, phoned their daughter from their room while
the shooting was taking place.

"We told her our hotel was under attack, but not to worry as we were safely in
our room," said Sylvia. "But at same time she could hear shots in the
background."

After it went quiet, Frank says he looked out of the balcony window and saw the
gunman being chased by three or four men, including a member of hotel staff.

Looking out again a little later, "when things had gone quiet", they say they
saw four bodies by the pool, near where their sun loungers had been.

Frank said: "There were bodies on the steps next to the pool, covered with
towels. The place was swarming with armed police and it still didn't feel safe
to go down."

Sylvia said: "It all started off at noon and the firing must have carried on for
20 minutes or so. It was worse on the beach."

In the evening, the couple went to the beach, concerned about a couple they had
got to know. They took a photo of a bullet hole in the hotel reception.

Frank said: "It was horrendous. A man was sitting next to his wife's body,
crying."

Sylvia said: "We'd been having a lovely holiday and had even said we'd go back
there, before this happened.

"The staff were fantastic, they couldn't do enough for you. The head waiter was
in buckets of tears."

At midnight they, along with hundreds of other holiday-makers, were flown back
to Manchester.

Frank said: "We were fast-tracked through the airport to a waiting plane.

"When we landed, a man from the anti-terrorist squad came on to the plane,
introduced himself and said we would be taken to a recovery area. Anyone who'd
witnessed anything was interviewed."

Sylvia said: "I keep waking up thinking about it. We were very lucky and our
hearts go out to the people who lost loved ones."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

VIDEO: Grandmother victim of Tunisia terror attack laid to rest

BYLINE: Amber Hicks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 470 words


GRANDMOTHER Eileen Swannack, one of the victims of the Tunisia terror attack,
was today laid to rest and her 'mischievous' and 'playful' personality
remembered by hundreds of mourners.

Scores of family and friends gathered for her funeral at St Nicholas' Church in
the village of Biddestone, where she had lived for 40 years in Slaughterford
Road and then Yatton Road.

As the tears flowed, those assembled heard how the much-loved 73-year-old had a
great sense of humour, exuded youthfulness and was always playing pranks.

Her granddaughter Lorren Swannack also addressed the congregation with an
emotional tribute to the "one hell of a special lady" who she was proud to call
her grandmother.

She said how the family had taken comfort that her grandmother and her partner
of eight years, John Welch, 74, from Corsham, had died together. She added that
the pair were a "great match" for each other, who both lost their partners to
cancer around ten years ago.

Many of the mourners had to stand in the churchyard and listened to the service
through speakers as the church was overflowing with people, something the
priest-in-charge, the Rev Jonathan Philpott, who conducted the service, said was
testament to Mrs Swannack's popularity.

Flowers were also left outside, a bouquet of which was from travel agents
Thomson and First Choice, whom Mrs Swannack and Mr Welch had booked their
holiday through to the beach resort of Sousse in Tunisia.

Mrs Swannack who grew up in Bristol with her five siblings, leaves her two sons
Keith and Des, two grandchildren Lorren and Lucie and two great-grandchildren
Ruby and Sapphire.

Her husband Eddie died aged 66 in 2005 following a battle with cancer.

During the service, which lasted for nearly an hour, a poignant passage was read
out called The Sea and the Beach and three hymns were sung. A private cremation
was held afterwards at the West Wiltshire Crematorium in Semington with close
family in attendance.

Speaking before the service Mr Philpott said: "There have been moments of anger
there has been moments of joy, moments of exceptional sorrow. I think its
exceptional turmoil really.

"Most of the times I've seen the family was before Eileen was flown back to this
country and I think also there's a sense of slight disbelief that it has even
happened, but I think the moment the body came back that was the moment of
reality and that's what it's going to be like today.

"I genuinely don't think it's sunk in for the village. That's going to happen
today. As I walk around the village and speak to people you just get this sense
of surrealism. I was saying to someone last week, when you think of terrorism
and Islamic State we think of Syria and Iraq and borders of Turkey but you don't
think of Biddestone."

Flowers at St Nicholas' Church, Biddestone, today. Picture by Trevor Porter

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Tamworth Herald Series

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

Thousands expected to pay respects at the funeral of terror attack victim Sue

BYLINE: Helen Machin; News Reporter

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 399  words


THOUSANDS of people are expected to turn out tomorrow (Friday) to pay their
respects to Sue Davey, the Tamworth woman killed in the Tunisia terror attack.

Sue's grieving family have issued an open invitation to her funeral service
which is to be held at St Editha's Church in the town centre at 12.30pm.

The service will be led by Tamworth's new vicar, Rev Alan Gordon and a public
address system will relay the service to the crowds outside the church.

Rev Gordon, who has been in Tamworth for just two months, said that he had been
impressed with how the town had rallied around Sue Davey's family since the
tragedy.

He said "I think the response from the town has been overwhelming.

"People have come together and it indicates to me how close-knit the town is.

"Quite a few of our congregation know the family personally, as they live almost
on the doorstep and the family have said to me that the support and sympathy
they have received is way more than they expected."

Three hundred order of service booklets have been printed for the service and
extra chairs will be in place in the church.  Both the main doors and the side
doors will be open to provide access and Rev Gordon said he expects people to
arrive from 11am onwards.

A horse-drawn funeral carriage, followed on foot by family and friends, plus a
police car, will leave from Tempest Street at 12.05pm.

Rolling road closures, manned by police officers, will be in place to allow the
cortege to pass through Tamworth to the church.

The closures are:

8.30am - 1.45pm - junction of St Editha's Close/Church Street. Closure in place
- access to property parking and deliveries between 8.30am and 12 noon only.
The disabled parking bays will be suspended and access will not be permitted for
vehicles wishing to park.

11.30am - 12.15pm - junction of Tempest Street/Nevill Street, junction of
Tempest Street/Halford Street, Halford Street/Orchard Street, Orchard Street/St
John Street, St John Street/Aldergate, Aldergate/Corporation Street.

1.15pm - 2pm - junction of Church Street/Aldergate/Silver Street to allow for
cortege to pass on way to Sutton Crematorium.

The capacity of St Editha's Church is 300 people, and this will be reserved for
family, close friends and colleagues.

The service at the crematorium is for family and close family and friends, as is
the wake at the Belfry Hotel.

Family flowers only - donations to St Giles Hospice.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tragic loss...Sue Davey pictured with her dad.
A public address system will relay the service to the crowds expected in St
Editha's Square.
"The response from the town has been overwhelming"... Tamworth's vicar Alan
Gordon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wiltshire Gazette and Herald

                             July 16, 2015 Thursday

Funeral to be held today for Biddestone victim of Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: Amber Hicks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 172 words


Family and friends of Eileen Swannack, a victim of the Tunisia terrorist attack,
will gather today to pay their final respects at her funeral taking place in
Biddestone.

Mrs Swannack, 73, of Yatton Road, Biddestone, and her partner of eight years
John Welch, 74, of Pickwick Road, Corsham, were among the British tourists shot
dead by student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, at the beach resort of Sousse in Tunisia
last month.

The grandmother's funeral will be taking place at St Nicholas' Church in Church
Road from 12.30pm and is being conducted by the vicar, the Rev Jonathan
Philpott.

It is the same church that the funeral of her late husband Edwin Swannack, known
as Eddie, was held. Mr Swannack, who was president of the village's football
club, died aged 66 in 2005 of cancer and the couple had been married for more
than 40 years.

It was after his death Mrs Swannack struck up a companionship with Mr Welch
whose partner had also died from cancer.

Mrs Swannack left two sons Keith and Des, two grandchildren and her
great-grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 17, 2015 Friday

Pro-ISIL Twitter user says terror attacks in UK "long overdue"

LENGTH: 178 words


At 2319 gmt on 15 July, Twitter user "AbuHussainAlBritani" (@AbuHussain_10; user
ID 3367628483; 527 followers) began issuing a series of English-language tweets
calling for attacks in the UK, suggesting an IED attack or a beheading. Below is
a transcription of the tweets.

"Attacking the coalition is fard ayn [a duty]... And not just in the khilafah
[caliphate] but everywhere you find them!"

"After the recent air strikes by the crusaders in the Islamic state, how is it
not fard ayn to attack the crusaders in their own lands?"

"An attack in the UK is long overdue..."

"So many brothers getting arrested... Remember to preserve your amniyaat
InshAllah [security, God willing] Allah swt [Subhana wa ta'ala, may He be
Glorified and Exalted] says: '...take your precautions, then go forth.."

"It is your duty to detonate an IED in the lands of the crusaders."

"Another Lee Rigby style beheading is longggg over due!!"

"If anyone needs help with cake baking or conducting operations message me on
surespot InshAllah.

Surespot: abuhussain3"

Source: Twitter.com in English 15 Jul 15

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       July 17, 2015 Friday 12:07 PM GMT

Updates: Funerals of Tunisia terror attack victims take place in West Bromwich
and Tamworth;
Sue Davey and relatives Joel Richards and Adrian and Patrick Evans are laid to
rest following shooting horror in Sousse

BYLINE: By Jasbir Authi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 8 words


Live: Funerals of four Tunisia terror attack victims

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 3:08 PM GMT

Tunisia terror victims from Bankfoot laid to rest at Perth Crematorium;
The funeral of Perthshire couple Billy and Lisa Graham took place at Perth
Crematorium on Monday, July 13.. Hundreds of mourners turned out to pay their
respects to the popular Bankfoot couple who were killed in last month's terror
attacks in Tunisia.

BYLINE: By Melanie Bonn

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 934 words


Attended by around 300 mourners and led by the Reverend Sydney Graham, the
private thanksgiving service for the Bankfoot couple was held in Perth
Crematorium on Crieff Road at noon.

The Grahams were visiting the resort of Sousse to celebrate Mrs Graham's 50th
birthday.

Mr Graham (51) had worked as a turnstile operator at St Johnstone Football Club
for seven years, having previously served for 22 years in the 5th Royal
Inniskilling Dragoon Guards, who were represented at the funeral.

Mr and Mrs Graham were among the 30 Britons who died in the attack on June 26,
which killed 38 people. Three Irish nationals, two Germans, one Belgian, one
Portuguese and one Russian also died.

During the service, Rev Graham said: "They were senselessly, unjustifiably
murdered.

"But love is stronger than death.

"Light our hearts with bright needles of light."

Daughter Holly Graham (29) delivered a moving and beautiful eulogy.

She said: "Dad was always cracking mad jokes. He was forever singing - it drove
us mad but never failed to make us laugh and smile."

Holly continued, her voice breaking as she spoke: "Dad was a very strong and
brave man, but deep down he was the biggest softie you could ever meet and would
do anything for anyone.

"He was my hero and always will be.

"Mum was beautiful inside and out. She was the life and soul of every party. She
worshiped the sun, be it on holiday or in her back garden.

"Mum's laugh was infectious. I just hope I can be at least half the woman my mum
was.

"My parents truly were the best parents in the world. Dad always knew what to
say to cheer me up and mum was always ready to listen to my needs.

"I'm going to miss them so much. I am so very proud to be their daughter and I
will continue to do my best.

"Sleep tight mum and dad. I love you."

There was a wave of applause from mourners in the crematorium.

Rev Graham continued: "Billy and Lisa had a lovely relationship. They created
and they enjoyed a beautiful home and garden, and they worked hard in the wider
community.

"Today your presence means more than any words of mine. They touched your lives
in so many ways: Perth Grammar and enchanted evenings at the Wheelhouse Hotel,
which sparked their relationship .

"Wherever Billy went, Lisa went too. That's army life. Twenty-two years loyally
serving us, serving Queen and country in the 5th Royal Inniskilling Dragoon
Guards, today the Royal Dragoon guards.

"Some here will remember service life, particularly in Germany and Northern
Ireland and others the Factory Shop, nursery and after school clubs, in
community care with the council and the private sector."

Rev Graham touched on Billy's years at the St Johnstone turnstiles: "Seven years
providing a warm welcome at the turnstiles, where recently 6,000 fans made known
their admiration, respect and support, both in silence and in spontaneous
applause."

He explained how the couple had worked hard to return to Tunisia to celebrate
Lisa's birthday.

"We are devastated, and it's outrageous and unbelievable what happened to them
as they enjoyed a well-earned rest in the sun.

"But love is stronger than death and no irrational act of man's inhumanity to
man can ever defeat the power of love."

Privately he told the PA how the Bankfoot vigil held nearly two weeks ago had
moved him by the great strength of feeling displayed: "Ten days ago the
community gathered in the local playpark in a massive vigil, making a stand,
showing support for Billy and Lisa in the witness of light as they all lit their
candles to curse the darkness."

Rev Graham ended by saying: "We commit ourselves to reflect the power of your
love, the dedicated teamwork, your courage, yes your humour, and your integrity.
The light indeed shines on with us."

Afterwards Bankfoot councillor John Kellas told the PA how touched he was to be
part of the thanksgiving service.

"Today people have come to see closure. As a community they have been
exceptionally supportive, they've come together in away I have never seen
before."

Cllr Kellas said he knew the couple "just in passing", but understood them to be
very well liked.

"That this happened because of terrorism is the part most difficult to come to
grips with. We see it in media, but never think it will touch us.

"I was in Tunisia with my wife in March, and this made us think we could equally
have been effected. We've all got to keep steadfast."

The service was attended by several serving soldiers and around 25
ex-servicemen, coming from as far afield as York, Merseyside and Kent.

Billy was in the Royal Inniskilling Dragoon Guards for 22 years, becoming a
warrant officer Class Two.

Retired major, Graeme Green, served with Billy for six years when they were
corporals together. He spoke after the service: "I was incredibly moved today. "

A lone bugler, trooper Matthew Dixons (22) came from the Dragoon Guards base at
Catterick in North Yorkshire. He played the Last Post in front of the two
coffins.

Another Army musician, Pipe Major Warren played as friends and family left the
chapel. "I feel for the family," he said.

Floral tributes outside were moving in their simple messages of love for the
couple: "My best friend I will never forget you. I will miss you both so much."

Another said: "Billy and Lisa, you lived life together, now you're together for
ever in our hearts."

"Your time together was cut too short, but may you both be safe in God's loving
arms."

Among the other messages outside the chapel was one other flower tribute, sent
by the holiday company that arranged the trip to Tunisia.

The note read: "The whole of Thomson and First Choice extends their condolences
to you at this sad time."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Left cannot blame terror attacks on British foreign policy, warns Kendall

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 568 words


LABOUR leadership contender Liz Kendall today criticised those on the political
Left who blame terror attacks on UK foreign policy.

She said her party must face up to the challenge of international terrorism and
told of her horror at finding out that two of her constituents were murdered in
the Tunisian beach atrocity. The shadow health minister said: "Nobody makes
anybody behead someone and put the picture on the internet. Nobody makes
somebody take a Kalashnikov and kill two of my constituents."

In the interview with the Standard Ms Kendall also criticised Western
governments for lacking a clear political plan in the Middle East.

It follows reports that Jeremy Corbyn is heading for victory in the Labour
leadership contest's first round.

But Ms Kendall downplayed the significance of the Left-winger winning more
backing from local Labour branches than other contenders. In a foray into
international affairs, she said it was "totally and utterly wrong" to suggest
terror atrocities were caused by British foreign policy.

The Leicester West MP went on: "As if the world is divided into adults and
children. Nobody makes anybody behead someone and put the picture on the
internet. Nobody makes somebody take a Kalashnikov and kill two of my
constituents.

"The world is a place of adults and adults. This is not going away - we have to
deal with it, face up to it."

The Foreign Office confirmed Leicester residents Ray and Angela Fisher were
among victims of gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who opened fire in Sousse last month
killing 38 people.

Islamic State has claimed it was behind the attack. Ms Kendall said: "We as a
Labour party have to understand that we can't just absent ourselves from the
rest of the world and think it's all going to go away."

The leadership hopeful, sometimes tagged as the Blairite candidate, said she
voted against military action in Syria in 2013 because it lacked an adjoining
political strategy.

She said: "We've obviously been supporting the US and what they're doing, and
bombing in Iraq, but it has to come together [with a political strategy]."

Asked if she thought the US, currently bombing targets in Syria, had a political
strategy, she said: "We're all working to try and make that happen."

Ms Kendall's campaign has gained some momentum this week after she won the
support of four female exunion bosses. She has also won the backing of six
London borough council leaders and the elected mayor of Lewisham. Despite Mr
Corbyn winning more support from constituency parties than other candidates, she
said she was confident Labour would not elect him. She pointed out that in the
2010 leadership contest Diane Abbott did not win among members of any single
constituency, despite being nominated by several Labour branches.

She said: "There are people who will, more quietly, but absolutely deadly
seriously, understand that if we keep saying what we've said over the past five
to eight years, we'll get the same result.

"We've lost twice the mayoral election in London. We've lost twice in Scotland
and we've lost two general elections and that means we are powerless to put our
values into practice." As leader, she has pledged to devolve health, skills and
employment policy to the capital and allow it to keep more business rates
collected here.

'We can't just absent ourselves from the rest of the world and think it's all
going to go away' Liz Kendall, MP for Leicester West

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leadership hopeful: two of Liz Kendall's constituents died in the
Tunisia attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 17, 2015 Friday 11:54 AM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: Fears of deadly terror attack TODAY as evil jihadists twist Eid peace
message

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 756 words


EVIL Islamic State converts are likely to carry out a deadly attack by TOMORROW
as sick jihadis twist the meaning of Ramadan to groom the weak into thinking
they are martyrs, it has been claimed.

GETTY

Many jihadists claim that Ramadan is the optimum and holiest time to carry out
terror attacks

Jihadi leaders have said the Holy month of Ramadan is the best time to carry out
attacks in the name of Allah as it is the ultimate form of worship.

And as spiritualism increases towards the end of the month - which finishes
today, experts fear this is the time of highest risk of attacks or plotting.

Muslim communities in Britain have condemned the call to arms in a bid to stop
vulnerable Britons turning to violence on home soil believing it is in the name
of God.

The Foreign Office has issued a worrying message the threat of an attack in
Nigeria is high, "particularly in the period up to the end of Ramadan and Eid
Al-Fitr."

Experts also fear the one and a half billion Muslim civilians who are observing
Ramadan around the world could be at risk as warped jihadis wage war on those
who do not follow their totalitarian ideology.

Afzal Ashraf, of defence think tank the Royal United Services Institute, said:
"There are five pillars of Islam which Muslims have to adhere during Ramadan -
charity, prayer, fasting, recital of faith and pilgrimage.

"What the extremists have done is to add a sixth pillar and that's jihad.

GETTY

Terror experts fear that extremists may attack Eid mosque celebrations tomorrow
Related articles Spies fear another Tunisia massacre is planned for tomorrow
Dozens of ISIS fighters 'POISONED' after eating post-Ramadan feast in Iraq
Travel warning as Muslim protest mob attacks tourists in Turkey over China's
Ramadan ban

"Bin Laden said that sixth pillar eclipsed the traditional five pillars and they
say that if you commit violence that is the ultimate form of worship.

"Extremists feel proper Muslims have left the faith and the outcome of that is
death and that is why why 91 per cent of jihadists' victims are fellow Muslims.

"An attack towards the end of Ramadan is something I have considered."

The last few days of Ramadan is where Muslims concentrate on their spirituality
the most, with many spending hours a night praying to their God.

Mr Ashraf said: "What these extremists are saying is yes you can do that but you
are going to get more points from God by killing and committing violence in his
name - so surely it's better to glorify God by killing people.

"It's really obsurd perversion."

He said jihadists could go to Eid celebrations to target the thousands of people
flocking to large mosques to attend services.

He added: "This gives them a target-rich environment.

AP; GETTY

ISIS pledged to carry out attacks during the holy month of Ramdan, like that at
the Sousse resort

"I wouldn't be surprised to see an attack on a Muslim country such as Syria or
Iraq, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Libya or Yemen.

"In Europe they may decide their way of celebrating the end of Ramadan rather
than going to a mosque and praying is to go and kill people.

"But in Western countries it may also be that there isn't anything unusual
specifically to do with Ramadan but there might be many more idiots thinking
about doing something than normally would."

On Wednesday armed police arrested three jihadi suspects in raids in Luton,
Bedfordshire and Letchworth, Hertfordshire, fearing a terror attack was imminent
in the UK.

The Foreign Office told Express.co.uk it advised tourists heading to Muslim
nations to check its travel before travelling.

The Home Office said the threat of terrorism has not changed in the run up to
Eid, with it still being at 'severe' threat levels which means an attack is
highly likely.

The Muslim Council of Britain told Express.co.uk: "Ramadan is a month of mercy,
in which Muslims are given a blessed opportunity to attain God-consciousness
through fasting, good work and charity.

GETTY

In another Ramadan attack, ISIS blew up a mosque in Kuwait with a suicide bomber

"Ramadan teaches us compassion and unity. It helps us to appreciate our
blessings where communities work together to alleviate the suffering of all
those in need in the UK and across the world.

"Many Muslims increase acts of worship during this month through extra prayers
and reading the Quran.

"The very fact that ISIS say things like 'God will forgive martyrs who carry out
terror attacks in the name of faith' only goes to prove that they know terror
attacks and suicide bombs are completely wrong and against the faith in the
first place."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 17, 2015 Friday 11:32 AM GMT

'High threat' of terror attack near Egypt beach resort after ISIS strike on
naval ship

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 349 words


BRITISH tourists in Egypt have been warned of the "high threat" of a terror
attack following an Islamic State missile strike on a naval ship near the
country's most popular beach resort.

Getty

Sharm el Sheikh has extra security in force to protect tourists from ISIS

The jihadist group claimed responsibility for yesterday's attack off the coast
of Sinai, close to Sharm el Sheikh where 900,000 Britons travel each year.

The Foreign Office is advising against all travel to North Sinai but due to
increased security around the beach resort, Sharm el Sheikh has been deemed safe
to travel to.

However, as the terror threat rises in the north African country, the travel
advice could soon cover the popular holiday destination, south of the warning
area, as well.

Sinai province became part of the spreading ISIS territory last November after
the ruling jihadist group Ansar Bait-al-Maqdis pledged their allegiance to while
urging followers in the area to carry on with beheadings and attacks against
security forces.

Related articles  Islamic State fanatics put up billboards ordering women to
wear...  British pilots carry out air strikes on Islamic State in Syria for...

Attacks in the northern part of the peninsula have increased over the last few
months, with dozens of soldiers attacked at several military checkpoints in the
jihadists' first attempt to control part of the Sinai desert.

The Egyptian army said more than 100 militants and 17 soldiers were killed
during the bloodiest battle in years after ISIS attacked the town of Sheikh
Zuwaid, just a few miles from the border with Gaza and Isreal.

UK Foreign Office advice states: "There is considered to be a heightened threat
of terrorist attacks globally against UK interests and British nationals from
groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be
vigilant at this time.

"Terrorists continue to plan attacks in Egypt. Attacks could be indiscriminate
and occur without prior warning."

It adds there is a threat of kidnapping, particularly in remote desert areas and
the situation is constantly being monitored.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              July 17, 2015 Friday

Funeral of Carly Lovett who was killed in the Tunisia terror attack to be held
today (Friday 17th July)

LENGTH: 71  words


The funeral of Carly Lovett, 24, who was killed in the Tunisian terrorist attack
on 26th June will be held at All Saints' Parish Church, Gainsborough, today
(Friday 17th July) at 11.15am.

There will be a private crematorium service and a reception following the church
service which will be by invitation only.

Police will be present in the grounds of the church to ensure the unhindered
arrival and departure of the cortege.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday

Gunman kills four US Marines in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 296 words


AT least four US Marines have died after a lone gunman unleashed a barrage of
shots at two military facilities in Tennessee before being killed.

Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said five people died, including the gunman,
Kuwait-born Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez.

A soldier was being treated in hospital for a gunshot wound to the leg,
according to one of the officials.

Another official said a police officer had also been injured.

Mr Berke said: "It is incomprehensible to see what happened and the way that
individuals who proudly serve our country were treated," he said.

"As a city, we will respond to this with every available resource we have."

US Attorney Bill Killian said officials were treating the attacks as an "act of
domestic terrorism", though the FBI's special agent in charge, Ed Reinhold, said
authorities were still investigating a motive.

"Lives have been lost from some faithful people who have been serving our
country, and I think I join all Tennesseans in being both sickened and saddened
by this," Governor Bill Haslam said.

The gunman lived in the nearby town of Hixson.

There was also a shooting at a military recruitment centre about seven miles
away.

Brian Lepley, a spokesman for the US Army Recruiting Command in Fort Knox,
Kentucky, said his recruiters were told by law enforcement that the gunman, who
was in a car, stopped in front of the facility, fired at the building and drove
off.

The army personnel at the facility told Mr Lepley they were not hurt and had
been evacuated. Mr Lepley said he had no information about staff for the other
military branches at the facility.

US President Barack Obama promised a thorough and prompt investigation into the
attack.

He called the shooting a "heartbreaking circumstance" and believed no-one else
was involved.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 7:23 PM GMT

PICTURED: The four Marines ruthlessly shot dead on home soil by Kuwaiti-born
gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez in Chattanooga terror attack

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN, WILLS ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM, ASSOCIATED PRESS and
REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4089 words



     ·    Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan, 40; Lance Cpl Skip Wells, 21; Sgt
          Carson Holmquist, 27; and Staff Sgt David Wyatt, 37 were identified as
          the four Marines shot dead by Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez in the
          Chattanooga terror attack
     ·    Abdulazeez, 24, opened fire on two military buildings in Chattanooga
          on Thursday before being shot dead by police
     ·    Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts, served two tours of duty in
          Iraq, survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple
          Heart
     ·    Wells, from Marietta, Georgia, had just recently graduated boot camp
     ·    Holmquist and Wyatt both leave behind widows and young children
     ·    Abdulazeez, 24, injured at least three others in the shooting and was
          shot dead by police responding to the incident
     ·    He was a naturalized U.S. citizen, originally from Kuwait, and a
          college graduate with a degree in electrical engineering
     ·    The Muslim published two blog posts on Monday, saying life is 'a test'
          and is 'short and bitter'
     ·    He also traveled to Jordan - and possible Yemen - for seven-months
          last year
     ·    Two women were taken in handcuffs from his family home in the suburb
          of Hixson but police say they don't believe anyone else was involve


Two fathers, a 21-year-old barely out of boot camp and a Purple Heart recipient
who served two tours of duty in Iraq have been identified as the four Marines
savagely murdered in Thursday's terror attack in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan, 40; Lance Cpl Skip Wells, 21; Sgt Carson
Holmquist, 27 and Staff Sgt David Wyatt, 37 were training at a Navy reserve
center just after 11am on Thursday when gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez, 24,
a naturalised U.S. citizen, pulled up in a rented silver convertible and started
shooting at the group through a fence in the second stop on a deadly double
shooting spree.

Just minutes earlier, the Muslim who grew up in the upscale suburb of Hixson had
fired dozens of rounds into the offices of a military recruitment center at a
strip mall - leaving one injured. The brutal attack was eventually brought to an
end when police intervened and shot dead Abdulazeez.

Loved ones of those senselessly murdered, paid tribute to them today as an
'amazing father', a perfect Marine, and a young man who 'felt called to serve'.

And touching photos reveal the lives behind their service. Skip Wells, the
youngest victim, shared a moving photo on Facebook hugging his girlfriend and
proudly posing in uniform - his baby-faced portrait a testament to his early
years cut short while David Wyatt, a married father of two, is pictured in an
emotional homecoming with his two children, who are proudly waving American
flags for their hero dad.

Scroll down for video

LANCE CPL SKIP WELLS

Prior to joining the Marines, Wells studied history at Georgia Southern
University, but did not graduate.  According to pictures posted to Facebook, he
had recently returned from a trip to DisneyWorld with his mother.

Family friend Garrett Reed, who has known Wells since the fourth grade, told CNN
that Wells' mother also served in the Marines and that Wells was in the ROTC in
high school.

'He loves his country, his momma served in the military...I think he just wanted
to follow in her footsteps,' Reed said.

Reed said he was shocked when he learned that his childhood friend had been
killed in the terror attack on Thursday

'You hear about this kind of stuff on the news all the time and you just never
think it can happen to one of your friends,' Reed said.

In describing Wells' personality, Reed said: 'He was just a funny guy, real
caring. Just a really nice guy, you just couldn't find a nicer guy than him.'

GUNNERY SGT THOMAS J SULLIVAN

Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts served two tours of duty in Iraq,
survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple Heart, his family
told  MassLive.

Sullivan's brother Joe is a pub owner in their hometown, and wrote a post on the
bar's website in honor of his fallen sibling after hearing the terrible news.

'He was our hero and he will never be forgotten. Please keep his family &
friends in your thoughts and prayers. Thank you Tommy for protecting us,' the
post reads.

As the family mourns Sullivan's passing, his brother has asked residents in
their community to lower their American flags to half mast.

'There's no Marine you would want that was better in combat than him,'
Sullivan's friend, Josh Parnell, told Patch. 'He'd been shot at so many times
over the years and then for this to happen at home in the United States.'

A woman claiming to be a friend of Sullivan's on Twitter shared a picture of the
sergeant in his uniform next to two Purple Hearts, writing: 'RIP GySgt Thomas
Sullivan, it was an honor knowing you and knowing you're the reason why my mom
would smile.'

Sullivan was one of three children to Jerry and Betty Sullivan and graduated
from Springfield's Cathedral High School before joining the military.

SGT CARSON HOLMQUIST

Sgt Carson Holmquist, a man who just returned from a nearly year-long deployment
last July, was another of the four men tragically killed in Thursday's shooting.

The 27-year-old originally from Grantsburg, Wisconsin leaves behind a wife,
Jasmine, and a 2-year-old son Wyatt.

At the time of his untimely death, Holmquist and his young family were living in
Jacksonville, North Carolina where he was stationed at Camp Lejeune.

While his family has yet to issue a statement on his death, it is very clear
that he was loved.

Pictured posted to Facebook show his wife and toddler son with broad smiles,
welcoming him home from a deployment last July.

In the photos, mother and son wave American flags and hold up posters reading
'Welcome home Daddy!' and 'We've waited 244 days for this moment'.

Friends also paid tribute to the fallen Marine on Facebook, posting kind words
like 'You will be missed bud'.

STAFF SGT DAVID WYATT

Staff Sgt David Wyatt lived with his wife and two kids in Hixson, Tennessee -
the same Chattanooga suburb where Abdulazeez grew up with his family.

As FBI agents swarmed the gunman's home on Thursday, mourners began to arrive at
Wyatt's home just six miles down the road.

'There were seven or eight cars there last night. I thought they were having a
party. It didn't go through my mind,' neighbor Antony Madakcherry told the
Tennessean.

Wyatt, originally from Russellville, Arkansas attended university in Montana
before joining the military.

He married his wife Lorri in December 2004, and the couple went on to have two
children - a boy and a girl according to photos posted on Mrs Wyatt's Facebook.

As friends and family wrote their condolences on Facebook Thursday night, Lorri
responded and thanked everyone for their support, writing that her husband had
been 'an amazing father'.

On Friday, a Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy was stationed outside of the
family's home.

The shooting that killed the four men started just before 11am on Thursday, when
gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez pulled up to a strip mall in Chattanooga and
started shooting through the glass windows of a military recruitment office from
the drivers seat of a rented silver convertible.

Abdulazeez then sped off and drove about seven miles north to a U.S. Naval
Reserve Center near a Coca-Cola bottling plant and the Tennessee RiverPark,
where he opened fire again at a group of servicemen through a fence.

All four of the victims killed in the shooting were shot dead at the Naval
Reserve center. Just one person was shot at the military recruitment offices and
was treated and released for their injuries.

The shooting was finally brought to an end when police officers intervened.
Abdulazeez reportedly rammed the sports car into a gate and then was shot dead
by a police officer.

In the aftermath of the shooting, it was revealed that Abdulazeez was a
naturalized U.S. citizen originally from Kuwait before moving to America with
his family in 1996. His father was reportedly born in the Palestinian
territories.

Authorities are still scrambling to find a motive for the attack, but a blog
posts written by Abdulazeez just three days before the attack suggests he may
have become radicalized in his Islamic faith.

A cryptic blog on Abdulazeez's Islamic beliefs also surfaced, where he talked
about submitting to Allah just three days before staging the horrific attack.

He wrote: 'Brothers and sisters don't be fooled by your desires, this life is
short and bitter and the opportunity to submit to allah may pass you by.'

According to The Daily Beast, he added: 'Take his (Allah's) word as your light
and code and do not let other prisoners, whether they are so called "Scholars"
or even your family members, divert you from the truth. If you make the
intention to follow allahs way 100 per cent and put your desires to the side,
allah will guide you to what is right.'

At a press conference on Thursday, authorities said they were investigating the
shootings as an act of 'domestic terrorism' but the FBI said that Abdulazeez had
not been on their radar.

A federal law enforcement official says authorities are continuing to search the
computer belong to the gunman, but as of Friday morning, haven't found an
extensive online presence.

The official says they also haven't uncovered evidence suggesting Abdulazeez was
directly inspired by the Islamic State militant group. But the official says the
review is continuing.

FBI investigators are also looking into a trip Abdulazeez took to Jordan, where
he lived before emigrating to the U.S., last year.

Reuters and the Wall Street Journal are reporting that authorities are looking
into whether he may have had contact with exremists during the seven-month stay
in 2014.

There are also questions about whether Abdulazeez may have visited Yemen on this
trip, a country known as a hot-bed for extremist groups like AQAP - the Arabian
Penninsula affiliate of al Qaeda.

The gunman's father, Youssef Abdulazeez, was also put on a terror watch list in
the past, but ultimately cleared.

The investigation allegedly had to do with the Palestinian-born father's
contributions to a charity and questions about whether the money was being
funneled to fund terrorism.

Law enforcement raided Abdulazeez's family home in the upscale neighborhood of
Hixson hours after the double shootings, just a mile away from the shot-up
recruitment offices, and took two women away in handcuffs.

Neighbors in the community were shocked to hear about the young man's arrest,
saying the family was normal and friendly.

'We've never had any problems like this,' one of Abdulazeez's neighbors told
Nashville's WKRN-TV. 'I'd never suspect anything.'

Authorities remained at the property into the night as the FBI started a
terrorist investigation in a bid to decipher the motives behind the attack, and
discover whether he was inspired by ISIS.

As a result of the shooting, security was beefed up across the country at
military recruitment centers and bases.

The NYPD has also increased their presence at 'sensitive areas' - including
recruitment centers and landmarks.

The attack came on the last day of the holy Muslim festival of Ramadan, a period
during which ISIS agitators asked for more lone wolf attacks.

He was a practicing Muslim, and would take breaks from training as a Mixed
Martial Arts fighter to pray in his coach's office.

Fellow worshipers had seem him in a local mosque up to a month before the
attack, but it is not known if or how he may have been radicalized.

Those who prayed alongside him said he was acting normally and there was nothing
to suggest he was preparing to do something so violent.

On Thursday evening, the FBI said no one else was believed to be involved and
they hadn't taken anyone into custody. They added that they were yet to find any
links to international terrorist cells, but were looking into every aspect of
his life.

The four casualties were believed to have been part of a reserve artillery unit
and had been deployed to Iraq three times.

At least three others - including Chattanooga Police Officer Dennis Pedigo, a
Marine recruiter and a Navy sailor - were also injured in the two brazen
assaults. Pedigo is said to be in a stable condition.

Witnesses described how the gunman shot from the driver's seat at the first
target, leaning the gun on the side of his hire car.

A spokesman for the University of Tennessee, Chattanooga, confirmed that he
attended the school and graduated in 2012 with a degree in electrical
engineering.

Pictures on social media have emerged of him at his graduation ceremony and
celebrating with members of his family in the same year.

Howeve,r he was recently seen smirking in his mugshot when he was arrested for
driving under the influence in April. He was scheduled to attend a court hearing
two weeks from the shooting.

Reports suggest he was stopped on the side of he road with 'white residue' on
his face, while his car smelled of marijuana. He claimed he had snorted caffeine
and refused a blood test.

In his yearbook entry for Red Bank High School, where he was a starter for the
varsity wrestling team, he wrote between two pictures of himself: 'My name
causes national security alerts. What does yours do?'

According to online profiles and a YouTube video, he became an amateur Mixed
Martial Arts (MMA) fighter when he left school.

Almir Dizdarevic, a former coach, told CNN he had traveled overseas to the
Middle East in the last two years and had reportedly 'moved home'. However, it
is unknown where in the area he visited and why he was there.

Abdulazeez's father, Youssuf Abdullazeez, was appointed as a 'special policeman'
for Chattanooga's Department of Public Works in March 2005, the  Chattanooga
Times Free Press  reported.

He was investigated several years ago for allegedly giving money to a group
associated with terrorism, the  New York Times reported.

Citing unnamed law enforcement officials, the paper said the gunman's father was
at one point on a terrorist watch list and was questioned while on a trip
overseas.

The paper quoted an official as cautioning that the investigation was several
years old and had not generated any information on the son. The father was
eventually removed from the watch list, the paper quoted the official as saying.

Neighbors in the upscale community say his family were well-respected and the
daughters would often babysit for their children.

A woman who was at school with Abdulazeez said he was a quiet kid, but
well-liked.

Karen Wagner told the Times Free Press: 'He was friendly, funny, kind,' said
Kagan Wagner. 'I never would have thought it would would be him.'

'They were your average Chattanooga family,' she added.

Kevin Emily, his high school wrestling coach, told CNN he was just a 'normal',
'humble' student who would sometimes miss practice because he had to pray.

He described how his mother and father would come and watch his fights on a
regular basis.

'There were no red flags about anything. We had a tight bond together.'

It is not known how and where he practiced Islam in the months before the attack
but, according to the Daily Beast, he ran a rambling blog with only two posts,
both posted on July 13.

The first post was entitled 'A Prison Called Dunya,' Abdulazeez refers to
prisoner who is told he would be given a test that would either take him out of
his earthly prison - or send him into a more restrictive environment.

According to the website, he wrote: 'I would imagine that any sane person would
devote their time to mastering the information on the study guide and stay
patient with their studies, only giving time for the other things around to keep
themselves focused on passing the exam.

He added: 'This life is that test, designed to separate the inhabitants of
Paradise from the inhabitants of Hellfire.'

The second post is called 'Understanding Islam: The Story of the Three Blind
Men.' It suggests Abdulazeez felt his fellow Muslims had a 'certain
understanding of Islam and keep a tunnel vision of what we think Islam is.'

The shooting started just before 11am on Thursday, when witnesses saw a
Abdulazeez drive into a strip mall and use a high-powered shotgun to fire more
than a dozen rounds at a military recruitment office from his silver convertible
Ford Mustang.

The shooter then fled the scene and drove to a U.S. Naval Reserve center where
he opened fire again.

He was then gunned down in a hail of bullets after a short chase away from the
scene. Reports suggest he held police at bay as he used 30-clip rounds from his
automatic weapon.

Witnesses described seeing a police car riddled with bullets being towed away
from the scene of the standoff.

President Obama was briefed on the incident and immediately opened an
investigation to be led by the FBI. The head of the government agency, James
Comey, was said to have been inside the Oval Office when the president was
informed of what happened.

Obama also urged the Department of Defense officials at bases around the country
to remain 'vigilant' in the wake of the attack. This led to the beefing up of
security in cities across the country.

In a short statement, he said: 'It is a heartbreaking circumstance for these
individuals that served our country with great valor to be killed in this
fashion.'

He added that the thoughts of the American people are with the families of those
who had been killed or injured.

Ray Mabus, the Secretary of the Navy said he would be opening an investigation
into what happened, but insisted the families of the victims were the priority.

In a statement he said: 'Though we can never fully prevent attacks like this, we
will continue to investigate, review and guard against future vulnerabilities
and do everything in our power to safeguard the security of our service members
and their families.

'While we expect our sailors and Marines to go into harm's way, and they do so
without hesitation, an attack at home, in our community, is insidious and
unfathomable. As the investigation unfolds, our priority will be to take care of
the families of those affected.

Mabus also expressed his gratitude to the first responders who first went to the
scene. He said their 'prompt reaction was critical to stopping this individual
from inflicting further violence.'

On Thursday Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said: 'It is with a heavy heart that
I learned of today's tragic events in Chattanooga.

'My thoughts and prayers - along with those of the men and women of the
Department of Defense - are with the families of those killed in this senseless
act of violence and with all those touched by this tragedy, including our Navy
and Marine Corps family.

'I am grateful to local law enforcement for their swift response. The department
will continue to work with local law enforcement as they investigate this
heinous crime and will support our military families in their time of grief.'

Republican presidential hopeful Bobby Jindal released a strong statement,
insisting the latest attack his proof that America is at war with everyday
radical Islam.

He said: 'This apparent act of terrorism has taken the lives of four American
heroes, and our hearts and prayers are with their families. While it's too early
to know for sure what happened, it certainly looks like an act of terrorism.

'We must pursue justice on their behalf and stop at nothing to hunt down and
kill these evildoers abroad before more of them come here to kill our people.

'This shooting underscores the grave reality of the threat posed to us by
Radical Islamic terrorism every single day. It's time for the White House to
wake up and tell the truth...and the truth is that Radical Islam is at war with
us, and we must start by being honest about that.

'There have been many bad things that have happened under President Obama. One
that stands out to me was the horrible shooting at Ft. Hood...which was clearly
an act of terrorism by a Radical Islamist. Yet the White House labeled that
horrible act as 'workplace violence.'

'This is grotesque. You cannot defeat evil until you admit that it exists.'

The Islamic community also came out to condemn the attack as 'cowardly'.

On Thursday, Bassam Issa, the President of the Islamic Society in Chattanooga,
said: 'We are tremendously saddened by today's shooting in hour home town of
Chattanooga, Tennessee. Our hearts are with the families of the brave Marines
who died today and with the police officer and two bystanders who were shot and
injured in this cowardly act.

'We condemn this act in the strongest possible terms as one of corwadice and
hate. At the Islamic Center of Greater Chattannoga, we don't see our community
center as a 'Muslim' community; we are Chattanoogans first, and we see ourselves
as part of the larger community of Tennesseans grieving today's act.

'The leadership of the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga is currently
meeting with law enforcement agencies and other members of the Chattanooga
community in regards to this tragedy and will issue additional comments to the
media this evening.'

Three days before Abdulazeez opened fire, local Muslims held a protest defending
their religion in the Tennessee city.

They targeted Chattanooga because the FBI caught a man, called Robert Doggart,
from there who was planning an attack on a Mosque in upstate New York.

He was indicted by a Tennessee grand jury on Tuesday for his involvement in the
plot.

The shooting comes at a time of heightened security following terror warnings
issued ahead of the Fourth of July weekend.

New York Police Department Deputy Commissioner Intelligence and Counterterrorism
John Miller released a statement saying there would be an increased police
presence in 'sensitive areas', including recruiting stations and landmarks.

'The NYPD has deployed an increased number of Critical Response Vehicles (CRV)
to provide additional coverage at military recruiting stations and other
sensitive locations in the City of New York.

'While we have no specific information about any plot against the city, until we
learn more about the attack we have placed additional officers in key
locations.'

'We have been in regular contact with Tennessee authorities, the FBI's Joint
Terrorism Task Force and the intelligence community.

News of the shooting broke around 11:30am when Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke
tweeted: 'Horrific incident in our community. We will release details as they
are confirmed. Prayers to all those affected'.

At an afternoon press conference, officials remained tight-lipped about details
of the shooting, but said that it was being investigated as an 'act of domestic
terrorism'.

They wouldn't divulge what kind of weapons the shooter was using, but did
confirm that he had multiple weapons on his person.

The investigation is being coordinated by the FBI, since crimes on military
centers are under federal jurisdiction.

Eyewitness, Gina Mule, who works near to the recruitment center said she saw the
gunman fire at the offices.

Speaking to CNN, Mule said she was eating in a restaurant when a man 'with a
high-powered rifle' began firing around 10:50am.

April Grimmett shared a picture of the bullet-ridden frontage of the recruitment
center after hearing rapid gunfire coming from the vicinity.

'Shortly after that we heard the shot. It was very loud and very fast,' she
said.

Grimmett added that the shooter appeared to be talking on the phone during the
attack.

'I could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane.'

One other witness, Erica Wright, told CNN that she was working in a hair salon
near the center and saw and heard the gunman.

'We heard one pop, one really loud pop. We went to the door and there was
several other pops after that and we looked two doors down and we saw a guy in a
silver mustang unloading on the recruiter's office,' she said.

Wright added that he reloaded once or twice.

An unidentified man who was in the parking lot of the strip mall told WTVC about
the terrifying situation that unfolded in front of him.

'He just pulled up. I didn't think anything of it. ... He lifted up his arms
with a big black gun. It was one shot then it was endless shots, one after
another, just unloading.'

Marilyn Hutcheson was with her friend taking a break when she told CNN that she
heard '7 to 15 shots'.

'There was a barrage of fire once the police officers and everyone got here,'
she said. 'They came across and put all of the buildings on lockdown. There was
a lot of gunfire going on for quite a while.'

The shooting at the Amnicola Highway reserve center led Chattanooga State
Community College, Lee University and a nearby mall to go into lock down.

Boston News, Weather, Sports | FOX 25 | MyFoxBoston

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 4:59 PM GMT

Fresh-faced Marine, 21, just out of boot-camp named alongside Purple Heart
recipient as two of the four Marines shot dead by gunman Muhammad Youssef
Abdulazeez in Chattanooga terror attack

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN, WILLS ROBINSON FOR DAILYMAIL.COM, ASSOCIATED PRESS and
REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3667 words



     ·    Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan, 40; Lance Cpl Skip Wells, 21; Sgt
          Carson Holmquist; and Staff Sgt David Wyatt were identified as the
          four Marines shot dead by Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez in the
          Chattanooga terror attack
     ·    Abdulazeez, 24, opened fire on two military buildings in Chattanooga
          on Thursday before being shot dead by police
     ·    Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts, served two tours of duty in
          Iraq, survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple
          Heart
     ·    Wells, from Marietta, Georgia, had just recently graduated boot camp
     ·    The two other Marines killed in the shooting have not yet been named
     ·    Abdulazeez, 24, injured at least three others in the shooting and was
          shot dead by police responding to the deadly incident
     ·    He was a naturalized U.S. citizen, originally from Kuwait, and a
          college graduate with a degree in electrical engineering
     ·    The Muslim published two blog posts on Monday, saying life is 'a test'
          and is 'short and bitter'
     ·    Two women were taken in handcuffs from his family home in the suburb
          of Hixson but police say they don't believe anyone else was involved


The four Marines killed in the Thursday shooting at a Naval Reserve center in
Chattanooga, Tennessee have been identified as Gunnery Sgt Thomas J Sullivan,
40; Lance Cpl Skip Wells, 21; Sgt Carson Holmquist and Staff Sgt David Wyatt.

Sullivan, from Springfield, Massachusetts served two tours of duty in Iraq,
survived the battle of Abu Ghraib and was awarded the Purple Heart, his family
told  MassLive.

Marietta, Georgia native Wells, 21, had just finished boot camp and a family
friend told  CBS Atlanta  that he 'felt called to serve'

The tragic pictures of Wells, one of two victims named today, show the
heartbreaking potential cut short by the rampage.

In moving pictures hugging a girlfriend and posing proudly fresh out of
boot-camp with his family, the 21 year old was only just starting out on his
dream career in the military when his life was brutally cut short.

Scroll down for video

Prior to joining the Marines, Wells studied history at Georgia Southern
University, but did not graduate.  According to pictures posted to Facebook, he
had recently returned from a trip to DisneyWorld with his mother.

Family friend Garrett Reed, who has known Wells since the fourth grade, told CNN
that Wells' mother also served in the Marines and that Wells was in the ROTC in
high school.

'He loves his country, his momma served in the military...I think he just wanted
to follow in her footsteps,' Reed said.

Reed said he was shocked when he learned that his childhood friend had been
killed in the terror attack on Thursday

'You hear about this kind of stuff on the news all the time and you just never
think it can happen to one of your friends,' Reed said.

In describing Wells' personality, Reed said: 'He was just a funny guy, real
caring. Just a really nice guy, you just couldn't find a nicer guy than him.'

Sullivan's brother Joe is a pub owner in their hometown, and wrote a post on the
bar's website in honor of his fallen sibling after hearing the terrible news.

'He was our hero and he will never be forgotten. Please keep his family &
friends in your thoughts and prayers. Thank you Tommy for protecting us,' the
post reads.

As the family mourns Sullivan's passing, his brother has asked residents in
their community to lower their American flags to half mast.

'There's no Marine you would want that was better in combat than him,'
Sullivan's friend, Josh Parnell, told Patch. 'He'd been shot at so many times
over the years and then for this to happen at home in the United States.'

A woman claiming to be a friend of Sullivan's on Twitter shared a picture of the
sergeant in his uniform next to two Purple Hearts, writing: 'RIP GySgt Thomas
Sullivan, it was an honor knowing you and knowing you're the reason why my mom
would smile.'

Sullivan was one of three children to Jerry and Betty Sullivan and graduated
from Springfield's Cathedral High School before joining the military.

Wyatt was identified as one of the four victims when family and friends started
an outpouring of support for his widow, Lorri, on Facebook.

'My heart aches for you and your kids. There are no words. You are in my thought
and prayers,' one friend wrote.

A neighbor who attended a Friday morning vigil told The Tennessean that the
Wyatt home in Chattanooga was packed with visitors on Thursday.

'There were seven or eight cars there last night. I thought they were having a
party. It didn't go through my mind,' Antony Madakcherry said.

Wyatt is reportedly a native of Chattanooga and leaves behind two children with
his wife.

The shooting that killed Sullivan started just before 11am on Thursday, when
gunman Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez pulled up to a strip mall in Chattanooga and
started shooting through the glass windows of a military recruitment office from
the drivers seat of a rented silver convertible.

Abdulazeez then sped off and drove about seven miles north to a U.S. Naval
Reserve Center near a Coca-Cola bottling plant and the Tennessee RiverPark,
where he opened fire again at a group of servicemen through a fence.

All four of the victims killed in the shooting were shot dead at the Naval
Reserve center. Just one person was shot at the military recruitment offices and
was treated and released for their injuries.

The shooting was finally brought to an end when police officers intervened.
Abdulazeez reportedly rammed the sports car into a gate and then was shot dead
by a police officer.

In the aftermath of the shooting, it was revealed that Abdulazeez was a
naturalized U.S. citizen originally from Kuwait before moving to America with
his family in 1996.

Authorities are still scrambling to find a motive for the attack, but a blog
posts written by Abdulazeez just three days before the attack suggests he may
have become radicalized in his Islamic faith.

A cryptic blog on Abdulazeez's Islamic beliefs also surfaced, where he talked
about submitting to Allah just three days before staging the horrific attack.

He wrote: 'Brothers and sisters don't be fooled by your desires, this life is
short and bitter and the opportunity to submit to allah may pass you by.'

According to The Daily Beast, he added: 'Take his (Allah's) word as your light
and code and do not let other prisoners, whether they are so called "Scholars"
or even your family members, divert you from the truth. If you make the
intention to follow allahs way 100 per cent and put your desires to the side,
allah will guide you to what is right.'

At a press conference on Thursday, authorities said they were investigating the
shootings as an act of 'domestic terrorism' but the FBI said that Abdulazeez had
not been on their radar.

A federal law enforcement official says authorities are continuing to search the
computer belong to the gunman, but as of Friday morning, haven't found an
extensive online presence.

The official says they also haven't uncovered evidence suggesting Muhammad
Youssef Abdulazeez was directly inspired by the Islamic State militant group.
But the official says the review is continuing.

FBI investigators are also looking into a trip Abdulazeez took to Jordan, where
he lived before emigrating to the U.S., last year.

Reuters and the Wall Street Journal are reporting that authorities are looking
into whether he may have had contact with exremists during the seven-month stay
in 2014.

There are also questions about whether Abdulazeez may have visited Yemen on this
trip, a country known as a hot-bed for extremist groups like AQAP - the Arabian
Penninsula affiliate of al Qaeda.

Law enforcement raided Abdulazeez's family home in the upscale neighborhood of
Hixson hours after the double shootings, just a mile away from the shot-up
recruitment offices, and took two women away in handcuffs.

Neighbors in the community were shocked to hear about the young man's arrest,
saying the family was normal and friendly.

'We've never had any problems like this,' one of Abdulazeez's neighbors told
Nashville's WKRN-TV. 'I'd never suspect anything.'

Authorities remained at the property into the night as the FBI started a
terrorist investigation in a bid to decipher the motives behind the attack, and
discover whether he was inspired by ISIS.

As a result of the shooting, security was beefed up across the country at
military recruitment centers and bases.

The NYPD has also increased their presence at 'sensitive areas' - including
recruitment centers and landmarks.

The attack came on the last day of the holy Muslim festival of Ramadan, a period
during which ISIS agitators asked for more lone wolf attacks.

He was a practicing Muslim, and would take breaks from training as a Mixed
Martial Arts fighter to pray in his coach's office.

Fellow worshipers had seem him in a local mosque up to a month before the
attack, but it is not known if or how he may have been radicalized.

Those who prayed alongside him said he was acting normally and there was nothing
to suggest he was preparing to do something so violent.

On Thursday evening, the FBI said no one else was believed to be involved and
they hadn't taken anyone into custody. They added that they were yet to find any
links to international terrorist cells, but were looking into every aspect of
his life.

The four casualties were believed to have been part of a reserve artillery unit
and had been deployed to Iraq three times.

At least three others - including Chattanooga Police Officer Dennis Pedigo, a
Marine recruiter and a Navy sailor - were also injured in the two brazen
assaults. Pedigo is said to be in a stable condition.

Witnesses described how the gunman shot from the driver's seat at the first
target, leaning the gun on the side of his hire car.

A spokesman for the University of Tennessee, Chattanooga, confirmed that he
attended the school and graduated in 2012 with a degree in electrical
engineering.

Pictures on social media have emerged of him at his graduation ceremony and
celebrating with members of his family in the same year.

Howeve,r he was recently seen smirking in his mugshot when he was arrested for
driving under the influence in April. He was scheduled to attend a court hearing
two weeks from the shooting.

Reports suggest he was stopped on the side of he road with 'white residue' on
his face, while his car smelled of marijuana. He claimed he had snorted caffeine
and refused a blood test.

In his yearbook entry for Red Bank High School, where he was a starter for the
varsity wrestling team, he wrote between two pictures of himself: 'My name
causes national security alerts. What does yours do?'

According to online profiles and a YouTube video, he became an amateur Mixed
Martial Arts (MMA) fighter when he left school.

Almir Dizdarevic, a former coach, told CNN he had traveled overseas to the
Middle East in the last two years and had reportedly 'moved home'. However, it
is unknown where in the area he visited and why he was there.

Abdulazeez's father, Youssuf Abdullazeez, was appointed as a 'special policeman'
for Chattanooga's Department of Public Works in March 2005, the  Chattanooga
Times Free Press  reported.

He was investigated several years ago for allegedly giving money to a group
associated with terrorism, the  New York Times reported.

Citing unnamed law enforcement officials, the paper said the gunman's father was
at one point on a terrorist watch list and was questioned while on a trip
overseas.

The paper quoted an official as cautioning that the investigation was several
years old and had not generated any information on the son. The father was
eventually removed from the watch list, the paper quoted the official as saying.

Neighbors in the upscale community say his family were well-respected and the
daughters would often babysit for their children.

A woman who was at school with Abdulazeez said he was a quiet kid, but
well-liked.

Karen Wagner told the Times Free Press: 'He was friendly, funny, kind,' said
Kagan Wagner. 'I never would have thought it would would be him.'

'They were your average Chattanooga family,' she added.

Kevin Emily, his high school wrestling coach, told CNN he was just a 'normal',
'humble' student who would sometimes miss practice because he had to pray.

He described how his mother and father would come and watch his fights on a
regular basis.

'There were no red flags about anything. We had a tight bond together.'

It is not known how and where he practiced Islam in the months before the attack
but, according to the Daily Beast, he ran a rambling blog with only two posts,
both posted on July 13.

The first post was entitled 'A Prison Called Dunya,' Abdulazeez refers to
prisoner who is told he would be given a test that would either take him out of
his earthly prison - or send him into a more restrictive environment.

According to the website, he wrote: 'I would imagine that any sane person would
devote their time to mastering the information on the study guide and stay
patient with their studies, only giving time for the other things around to keep
themselves focused on passing the exam.

He added: 'This life is that test, designed to separate the inhabitants of
Paradise from the inhabitants of Hellfire.'

The second post is called 'Understanding Islam: The Story of the Three Blind
Men.' It suggests Abdulazeez felt his fellow Muslims had a 'certain
understanding of Islam and keep a tunnel vision of what we think Islam is.'

The shooting started just before 11am on Thursday, when witnesses saw a
Abdulazeez drive into a strip mall and use a high-powered shotgun to fire more
than a dozen rounds at a military recruitment office from his silver convertible
Ford Mustang.

The shooter then fled the scene and drove to a U.S. Naval Reserve center where
he opened fire again.

He was then gunned down in a hail of bullets after a short chase away from the
scene. Reports suggest he held police at bay as he used 30-clip rounds from his
automatic weapon.

Witnesses described seeing a police car riddled with bullets being towed away
from the scene of the standoff.

President Obama was briefed on the incident and immediately opened an
investigation to be led by the FBI. The head of the government agency, James
Comey, was said to have been inside the Oval Office when the president was
informed of what happened.

Obama also urged the Department of Defense officials at bases around the country
to remain 'vigilant' in the wake of the attack. This led to the beefing up of
security in cities across the country.

In a short statement, he said: 'It is a heartbreaking circumstance for these
individuals that served our country with great valor to be killed in this
fashion.'

He added that the thoughts of the American people are with the families of those
who had been killed or injured.

Ray Mabus, the Secretary of the Navy said he would be opening an investigation
into what happened, but insisted the families of the victims were the priority.

In a statement he said: 'Though we can never fully prevent attacks like this, we
will continue to investigate, review and guard against future vulnerabilities
and do everything in our power to safeguard the security of our service members
and their families.

'While we expect our sailors and Marines to go into harm's way, and they do so
without hesitation, an attack at home, in our community, is insidious and
unfathomable. As the investigation unfolds, our priority will be to take care of
the families of those affected.

Mabus also expressed his gratitude to the first responders who first went to the
scene. He said their 'prompt reaction was critical to stopping this individual
from inflicting further violence.'

On Thursday Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said: 'It is with a heavy heart that
I learned of today's tragic events in Chattanooga.

'My thoughts and prayers - along with those of the men and women of the
Department of Defense - are with the families of those killed in this senseless
act of violence and with all those touched by this tragedy, including our Navy
and Marine Corps family.

'I am grateful to local law enforcement for their swift response. The department
will continue to work with local law enforcement as they investigate this
heinous crime and will support our military families in their time of grief.'

Republican presidential hopeful Bobby Jindal released a strong statement,
insisting the latest attack his proof that America is at war with everyday
radical Islam.

He said: 'This apparent act of terrorism has taken the lives of four American
heroes, and our hearts and prayers are with their families. While it's too early
to know for sure what happened, it certainly looks like an act of terrorism.

'We must pursue justice on their behalf and stop at nothing to hunt down and
kill these evildoers abroad before more of them come here to kill our people.

'This shooting underscores the grave reality of the threat posed to us by
Radical Islamic terrorism every single day. It's time for the White House to
wake up and tell the truth...and the truth is that Radical Islam is at war with
us, and we must start by being honest about that.

'There have been many bad things that have happened under President Obama. One
that stands out to me was the horrible shooting at Ft. Hood...which was clearly
an act of terrorism by a Radical Islamist. Yet the White House labeled that
horrible act as 'workplace violence.'

'This is grotesque. You cannot defeat evil until you admit that it exists.'

The Islamic community also came out to condemn the attack as 'cowardly'.

On Thursday, Bassam Issa, the President of the Islamic Society in Chattanooga,
said: 'We are tremendously saddened by today's shooting in hour home town of
Chattanooga, Tennessee. Our hearts are with the families of the brave Marines
who died today and with the police officer and two bystanders who were shot and
injured in this cowardly act.

'We condemn this act in the strongest possible terms as one of corwadice and
hate. At the Islamic Center of Greater Chattannoga, we don't see our community
center as a 'Muslim' community; we are Chattanoogans first, and we see ourselves
as part of the larger community of Tennesseans grieving today's act.

'The leadership of the Islamic Society of Greater Chattanooga is currently
meeting with law enforcement agencies and other members of the Chattanooga
community in regards to this tragedy and will issue additional comments to the
media this evening.'

Three days before Abdulazeez opened fire, local Muslims held a protest defending
their religion in the Tennessee city.

They targeted Chattanooga because the FBI caught a man, called Robert Doggart,
from there who was planning an attack on a Mosque in upstate New York.

He was indicted by a Tennessee grand jury on Tuesday for his involvement in the
plot.

The shooting comes at a time of heightened security following terror warnings
issued ahead of the Fourth of July weekend.

New York Police Department Deputy Commissioner Intelligence and Counterterrorism
John Miller released a statement saying there would be an increased police
presence in 'sensitive areas', including recruiting stations and landmarks.

'The NYPD has deployed an increased number of Critical Response Vehicles (CRV)
to provide additional coverage at military recruiting stations and other
sensitive locations in the City of New York.

'While we have no specific information about any plot against the city, until we
learn more about the attack we have placed additional officers in key
locations.'

'We have been in regular contact with Tennessee authorities, the FBI's Joint
Terrorism Task Force and the intelligence community.

News of the shooting broke around 11:30am when Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke
tweeted: 'Horrific incident in our community. We will release details as they
are confirmed. Prayers to all those affected'.

At an afternoon press conference, officials remained tight-lipped about details
of the shooting, but said that it was being investigated as an 'act of domestic
terrorism'.

They wouldn't divulge what kind of weapons the shooter was using, but did
confirm that he had multiple weapons on his person.

The investigation is being coordinated by the FBI, since crimes on military
centers are under federal jurisdiction.

Eyewitness, Gina Mule, who works near to the recruitment center said she saw the
gunman fire at the offices.

Speaking to CNN, Mule said she was eating in a restaurant when a man 'with a
high-powered rifle' began firing around 10:50am.

April Grimmett shared a picture of the bullet-ridden frontage of the recruitment
center after hearing rapid gunfire coming from the vicinity.

'Shortly after that we heard the shot. It was very loud and very fast,' she
said.

Grimmett added that the shooter appeared to be talking on the phone during the
attack.

'I could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane.'

One other witness, Erica Wright, told CNN that she was working in a hair salon
near the center and saw and heard the gunman.

'We heard one pop, one really loud pop. We went to the door and there was
several other pops after that and we looked two doors down and we saw a guy in a
silver mustang unloading on the recruiter's office,' she said.

Wright added that he reloaded once or twice.

An unidentified man who was in the parking lot of the strip mall told WTVC about
the terrifying situation that unfolded in front of him.

'He just pulled up. I didn't think anything of it. ... He lifted up his arms
with a big black gun. It was one shot then it was endless shots, one after
another, just unloading.'

Marilyn Hutcheson was with her friend taking a break when she told CNN that she
heard '7 to 15 shots'.

'There was a barrage of fire once the police officers and everyone got here,'
she said. 'They came across and put all of the buildings on lockdown. There was
a lot of gunfire going on for quite a while.'

The shooting at the Amnicola Highway reserve center led Chattanooga State
Community College, Lee University and a nearby mall to go into lock down.

Boston News, Weather, Sports | FOX 25 | MyFoxBoston

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 17, 2015 Friday 1:16 AM GMT

Chattanooga shootings: Isis 'threatened US attack just before news of shooting
broke';
Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez reportedly opened fire at two naval bases and
military recruitment centres in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in an attack described
as an act of 'domestic terrorism'

BYLINE: By Ruth Halkon

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 668 words


Chattanooga gun attack

Isis is behind the shooting rampage at US military bases in which four Marines
were killed, according to US reports.

A tweet, seemingly predicting the attack, from an account believed to be run by
an Isis supporter, was sent around the time the gunman opened fire.

Below a picture of a masked man wielding a knife, the user has posted: "O
Americans Dogs, soon you will see wonders #Chattanooga #USA #Isis".

But so far the claim that Isis was behind it has not been verified

Five died, including the gunman, after he opened fire at two naval bases and
military recruitment centres in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in an attack described
as an act of "domestic terrorism," CBS News reports.

Three people were also wounded, including a police officer.

One is in critical condition, one was treated and released. The condition of the
third, and officer, is not known.

A US official later said the gunman had been identified as 24-year-old
Abdulazeez.

He was believed to have been born in Kuwait, and it was unclear whether he was
an American or Kuwaiti citizen.

He was from Hixson, Tennessee, which is just a few miles across the river from
Chattanooga.

Bill Killian, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee, earlier
said the US was treating this as an "act of domestic terrorism".

But he added no official determination of the nature of the crime had yet been
made.

Chattanooga's mayor described the killings as "incomprehensible".

Mayor Andy Berke told a news conference that the gunman had also been killed but
did not say how.

"I want to say again, it is incomprehensible to see what happened and the way
that individuals who proudly serve our country were treated," he said.

"As a city, we will respond to this with every available resource we have."

In a statement, the Pentagon confirmed four Marines had been killed and one
wounded.

It said: "We can confirm that four DoD (Defense Department) service members were
tragically killed and one wounded in two separate shootings in Chattanooga,
Tennessee today."

It said the shootings took place at a Network Operations Support Center operated
by the U.S. Navy and at an armed forces recruiting center.

The U.S. Marine Corps said in a tweet that the four slain personnel were
Marines.

The Pentagon and Marine Corps said the names of the victims would be released
after their next of kin had been notified.

Mayor Berke earlier confirmed to reporters one police officer was "down".

He said: "This is a very, very terrible situation and we need to go figure out
how we can handle it," he said.

School on lockdown because of shooting

He had previously tweeted: "Horrific incident in our community.

"We will release details as they are confirmed. Prayers to all those affected."

Meanwhile, a witness in Chattanooga told CNN she saw a gunman fire shots at a
building that houses military recruiting offices at around 10.50am local time.

Gina Mule, a server at a restaurant, said she saw a man who'd been in a silver
convertible Mustang, firing a "high-powered rifle" at the recruiting offices at
about 10:50 a.m.

She said she first heard "Pow, pow, pow!" She then went to a window, through
which she said she saw the man firing shots.

"I don't know how many shots he fired, but it was a lot," she said.

A second witness, April Grimmett, said she was working at a hair salon near the
recruiting center when she looked out a window and saw a man ducking in between
cars.

"Shortly after that, we heard the (shots). It was very loud and very fast,"
Grimmett said, without saying what happened to the man she had seen.

A photo that she took shows glass doors damaged by the gunfire.

"I could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane,"
she said.

Chattanooga State Community College on its website said there was a shooting and
added: "Everyone stay inside, close doors."

Lee University in Tennessee was also on lockdown, the school said on its
website. It advised people to stay inside until further notice.

Shooting naval base pictures shattered door

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:40:42

