



Download Request: Select Items: 1001-1270
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:36:41
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 5, 2015 Sunday

(Corr) Egyptian army kills 35 "terrorists" in raids following Sinai attacks

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

[Correction: Correcting death toll in headline. Corrected version follows:]

Cairo, 4 Apr: The Armed Forces on Saturday [4 April] killed 35 terrorists and
injured several others during raids against terror groups who were involved in
Thursday's attacks on security points in Al-Arish and Al-Shaykh Zuyawid, North
Sinai.

A statement issued by military spokesman Muhammad Samir said that six SUVs and
two trucks belonging to terrorist groups along with two bomb ambulances and a
clean vehicle, stolen from government agencies were destroyed during the raids.

Meanwhile, 11 army personnel, who were seriously injured during Thursday's
attacks, died. The death toll hit 16.

The Armed forces confirmed that their personnel would continue raids on
terrorists to secure the homeland security and stability.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1953gmt 04 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 5, 2015 Sunday

Egyptian army kills 31 "terrorists" in raids following Sinai attacks - spokesman

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

1953

Cairo, 4 Apr: The Armed Forces on Saturday [4 April] killed 35 terrorists and
injured several others during raids against terror groups who were involved in
Thursday's attacks on security points in Al-Arish and Al-Shaykh Zuyawid, North
Sinai.

A statement issued by military spokesman Muhammad Samir said that six SUVs and
two trucks belonging to terrorist groups along with two bomb ambulances and a
clean vehicle, stolen from government agencies were destroyed during the raids.

Meanwhile, 11 army personnel, who were seriously injured during Thursday's
attacks, died. The death toll hit 16.

The Armed forces confirmed that their personnel would continue raids on
terrorists to secure the homeland security and stability.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1953gmt 04 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 5, 2015 Sunday

Slain leader of Egyptian jihadi group took part in 26 terror attacks - police

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 5 April: Ministry of Interior Spokesman Hani Abd-al-Latif on Sunday [5
April] asserted that the slain leader of Ajnad Misr [Soldiers of Egypt]
terrorist group took part in 26 terror attacks.

In a statement by the ministry of interior, Abd-al-Latif said that Hammam
Muhammad Ahmad Ali, also known as Fawzi or Husam, has exchanged fire with police
personnel who were trying to break into a residential unit in Giza's Haram
district, where the terrorist was hiding.

When killed, the terrorist had on him an automatic rifle, a pistol, four
explosive charges and explosive-manufacturing materials, the spokesman added.

He noted that the dangerous terrorist has been a prominent leader of Ansar Bayt
al-Maqdis terrorist group before forming Ajnad Misr group in 2013 to target army
and police personnel.

Hammam has ordered and taken part in terrorist attacks that claimed the lives of
a number of army and police personnel and injured scores others, the spokesman
concluded.

Abd-al-Latif stressed the ministry's determination to face the terrorist groups
as well as outlaws who compromise the country's security and stability.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1755gmt 05 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 5, 2015 Sunday

Kenyan paper concerned over rising terror attacks

LENGTH: 650 words


Text of editorial entitled "Find out why Garissa response was delayed" published
by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Nation on 5 April

After the four-day siege of the Westgate mall, which focused the worst kind of
attention on Kenya in September 2013, most people concluded that the Kenyan
security forces could have done much better.

President Uhuru Kenyatta indirectly admitted as much when he ordered an inquiry
into the whole attack before quickly back-tracking.

It, therefore, beggars belief that many of the failures that were witnessed
during the Westgate siege - including the late deployment of specialized police
- were repeated in Garissa.

It is obvious that in a situation such as this, with terrorists who are willing
to die due to their warped interpretation of religion, speed is absolutely of
the essence in ending a siege.

Yet it is now emerging that the Israeli-trained General Service Unit Recce team
was delayed for hours from making a rapid deployment to the scene all because of
bureaucratic incompetence.

Even worse, it now turns out that one plane was allowed to leave the Wilson
Airport ferrying top government officials rather than first taking the
life-saving help that was needed to save the besieged students.

Disturbing development

In a further disturbing development, it turns out that the Inspector General of
Police and the minister for interior did not do enough to source alternative
means of transport in a situation where there were no police helicopters of the
right size available to save lives.

This is negligence on a scale that borders on the criminal. From eyewitness
accounts, the gunmen who killed scores of students with obvious relish took
their time.

They had the space in which to interrogate the young souls about their religion
and proceeded to line up the innocents in rows before executing them.

Some even made calls to their anguished parents. It is clear that if swifter
action had been taken to raid the hostel immediately especially considering the
Shabab do not take hostages but arrive ready for suicide, more lives would have
been saved.

Top security officials who failed in their duty owe Kenyans an apology. And this
is especially due to the many anguished parents enduring terrible grief today
when the lives of some of the students killed might have been saved.

The ultimate responsibility lies with President Kenyatta. It is he who swore to
protect the lives of Kenyans, and it is he who appointed these security chiefs.

He must find a way to take the major steps necessary that will restore the faith
of Kenyan in their security apparatus.

It has been pointed out on numerous occasions that Kenya is not the only country
which has deployed troops in Somalia.

Merciless enemy

Burundi, Ethiopia, Uganda and Sierra Leone all have troops in the theatre.
However, none of them have suffered atrocities on the horrifying scale witnessed
in Kenya.

Something has to change. Kenya must change from its Hakuna Matata posture and
realize that a war is afoot against a merciless enemy.

All necessary measures must be taken to deploy enough members of the security
forces to the numerous soft targets the killers might seek to target.

A thorough review of the well-funded intelligence machinery should also be
conducted.

Security forces must be smartly deployed in the numerous areas where they are
needed and a more appropriate footprint is necessary in place of the current
over-concentration in Nairobi.

In the medium term, Kenya must consider the wisdom of deploying troops in
Somalia to pacify that country while citizens within its borders remain in dire
need of protection.

President Kenyatta and his team ought to know that Kenyans are searching for
answers why so many citizens have become sitting ducks in the face of the
blood-thirsty Shabab militants and why they feel thoroughly exposed and let down
by their leaders.

Source: Sunday Nation, Nairobi, in English 5 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 5, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

FOUND AFTER TWO DAYS IN A CUPBOARD, GIRL WHO HID FROM KENYA UNI GUNMEN;
Teenager tells of ordeal after terrorist attack horror

BYLINE: KAREN ROCKETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 246 words


A TERRIFIED teenage girl was found hiding in a cupboard yesterday, two days
after terrorists killed 142 students at her university.

Cynthia Charotich, 19, told how she drank body lotion to stave off hunger. She
was treated for dehydration but was said to be physically unharmed.

Her discovery means everyone at the Garissa University campus in Kenya is now
accounted for.

Three more students were found alive on Friday, along with a suspect.

Three police officers and three soldiers were also among the dead after an
al-Shabaab cell attacked the university early on Thursday, shooting and
beheading victims.

One witness spoke of hearing a gunman use Swahili, a Kenyan language, suggesting
the gang were local, not from al-Shabaab's heartland of Somalia.

The student told how she had hidden under a bed and heard the gunman being
ordered on his mobile to shoot the five other women in the dormitory.

Another, Hellen Titus, survived by smearing herself with the blood of other
girls to appear dead. A second woman found hiding in a wardrobe was too shocked
to speak but had managed to text her dad as he searched hospitals.

Yesterday anger mounted over reports that intelligence of an imminent attack on
a school or university had been ignored. Security was not stepped up despite the
alert.

Al-Shabaab has warned the attack was the start of a "long, gruesome war" against
Kenya for its part in an African Union mission against the terror group in
Somalia.

karen.rockett@trinitymirror.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: High alert: the universityTraumatised: Cynthia after her rescue

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 5, 2015 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

Kenya Garissa university attack: Authorities hunt for al-Shabaab killers
following the country's worst terror attack in over 15 years;
Survivors emerge from the campus as the nation mourns its young dead

BYLINE: Ariel Zirulnick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1053 words


In the intense heat of the north-east Kenyan afternoon, a white pickup truck
drives down Garissa's main road, a crowd running behind. It is the same road
where three days ago terrified students also ran, barefoot in nightdresses and
boxer shorts, after being awoken by gunshots as al-Shabaab militants stormed the
town's university campus.

In the back of the pickup, the naked bodies of four men are piled on top of each
other haphazardly, loaded earlier at the hospital morgue. They are, authorities
say, the corpses of those responsible for the attack on Garissa University
College: among a group of men who roamed the university with apparently impunity
and killed 148 people.

In pictures: Kenya Garissa University shooting

The truck stops at a primary school. Soldiers stand with guns and sticks
attempting to hold the crowd back. But still it pushes closer. "Let them see
it," a soldier standing guard says. The bodies, riddled with gunshots, are
swollen - almost unidentifiable. Hassan Sheikh Ali, a local education official,
insists that at least the attacker on top, whom he can see clearly, is not
Somali. The corpse is not thin enough, he says. It is also uncircumcised which,
in Mr Ali's view, makes the man unlikely to be from the country from where
al-Shabaab continues to terrorise Kenya.

Ifrah Aden Shidow, a Red Cross volunteer who saw the corpses while picking up
the bodies of students on Thursday, says that three of the attackers were shot
to death while one barricaded himself in a room with students and detonated a
grenade at the end of a 12-hour siege.

Read more: Comment: Extremism and education don't mix

After the worst terror attack in Kenya in more than 15 years, Garissa is
beginning to recover. The curfew imposed by Nairobi is lifted in the morning,
with shopkeepers opening their windows, matatus (minibuses)  plying the main
road and carts and pedestrians crowding the streets. By 9am yesterday, the
makeshift camp at the military airstrip for survivors of the university massacre
was empty, the last students on buses bound for their homes.

But survivors continue to emerge. At about 10am, an ambulance roars into the
hospital compound with a female student who had been hiding for two days.
Cynthia Cheroitich, 19, tells reporters that she refused to emerge from her
hideout even when some of her classmates came out of hiding at the demands of
the gunmen. "How do I know that you are the Kenyan police?" Ms Cheroitich says
she asked Kenyan police when they found her yesterday.

"I was just praying to my God," she tells reporters. It could have meant a
certain death. The militants separated Christians from Muslims and executed
those of the "wrong" faith.

Even as Garissa comes to terms with the massacre, al-Shabaab - the group behind
the attack at the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in 2013 - continues to
threaten its existence. "No amount of precaution of safety measures will be able
to guarantee your safety, thwart another attack or prevent another bloodbath,"
the group warned in a statement yesterday. "Kenyan cities will run red with
blood... This will be a long, gruesome war of which you, the Kenyan public, are
its first casualties."

Kenya's interior ministry said three men thought to have co-ordinated the
assault were arrested while trying to flee to Somalia. They were all Kenyans of
Somali origin, as was another of those detained, who was a security guard at the
university. A Tanzanian man named as Rashid Charles Mberesero was also arrested
at the university.

But Mohamed Mohamud, also known as Dulyadin and Gamadhere, the alleged
mastermind behind the attack, remains at large. "We will fight terrorism to the
end," said President Uhuru Kenyatta in a national address. "I want you to know
that our security forces are pursuing the remaining accomplices. We will bring
all of them to justice."

More survivors are still expected to arrive at Garissa's hospital where an
ambulance worker stands in the hallway holding a handwritten list of names of
students who are still missing - neither on the casualty list, nor on the list
of survivors. Outside, locals surge forward whenever an ambulance pulls in. They
are eager for information. Some have definitive proof they wish they didn't
have. Ms Shidow, a local Red Cross member who rushed to the university when she
heard about the attack, scrolls through messages in a WhatsApp group for the
university's Red Cross club. She displays a photo of two male students. "They're
dead now," she says.

The messages show the panic in real time. "Are u safe? are u safe??" reads the
first message from Thursday morning, from someone off campus. "Nooooooooo!!!!"
reads the response from a Red Cross Club member whom Ms Shidow says they only
know as "DJ Avast". She says she called DJ Avast a moment later and he told her
he was hiding, but that he could hear the gunmen approaching. "They have me. I
am dead," he told Ms Shidow. By the end of the siege, he was. So too were 147
others.

Now, the hospital wings are almost empty, the survivors of the attack taken to
Nairobi and the medical staff on strike. They are refusing to come back until
they are given better security. Most of Garissa's teachers, doctors and other
skilled professionals are not locals. Decades of marginalisation have left most
of north-east Kenya with few educated residents to draw on.

Garissa lies at the southern end of the sparsely populated, arid, predominantly
ethnic Somali region - the last major population centre aside from Dadaab
refugee camp for hundreds of miles. The tarmac road from Nairobi ends less than
six miles from town. It is the only tarmac in the whole north-east region.

Garissa University had been elevated from a college only two years ago. It was
held up as a sign of progress for Garissa. Now there are calls from Nairobi for
the university to be closed.

In the Garissa hospital courtyard, Sheikh Omar Abdi Satar, a self-described
peace monitor and general secretary of the Garissa Interfaith Council, is
waiting to see the bodies of the attackers before they are moved in the white
pickup. "The only development we have received since independence is this
university. [It] is collapsing and will never come back," he says. "We are in
mourning. We have lost our children who are supposed to be our teachers, the
future of our country."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

"Mastermind" of 2011 Mombasa terror attack sneaks back into Kenya - report

LENGTH: 737 words


Text of report by Calvin Onsarigo entitled "Terrorism fugitive Fuad Abubakar
back in Kenya, he is believed to be planning attacks" published by
privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 6 April

Terror fugitive Fuad Abubakar Manswab, a mastermind of the 20 December, 2011,
foiled terrorist attack in Mombasa, has sneaked back into the country from
Somalia.

Abubakar was once arrested alongside British national Jermaine Grant and two
others in Mombasa, with explosives in a house within the Kisauni area, as they
planned a major terror raid targeting key installations. He and Grant were
working with fugitive Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of London underground
bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

The White Widow is said to be a financier of the Al-Shabab terror group in East
Africa.

Their plot was thwarted by Kenyan Anti-Terror Police Unit [ATPU] officers,
working with Scotland Yard counter-terrorism detectives.

Latest intelligence reports confirm that Abubakar is among 10 terror suspects
who have crossed into the country from Somalia.

Police have profiled the 10 suspects and released their names and photographs,
seeking public support for their arrest.

Abubakar is suspected to be coordinating terror activities in this country by
funding and training youth to fight in Somalia and later launch attacks in
Kenya.

According to multiple police sources, who did not want to be named, Abubakar,
who hails from the Majengo area of Mombasa, is among key militant leaders being
sought by the authorities.

Mombasa County criminal investigations boss Henry Ondiek said Abubakar is on
both local and international radar over links with terrorism activity.

"We have placed his name as among most dangerous terror suspects on the run in
the country. His details have widely been shared among security agencies and we
are urging for public support," said Ondiek.

Ondiek could not deny or confirm whether Abubakar is back in the country.

Speaking to The Star yesterday, Ondiek warned that individuals found harbouring
the terror suspects will also be arrested and charged.

Senior ATPU officers yesterday told The Star that there are conflicting reports
on whether Abubakar was killed in Somalia or survived a KDF [Kenya Defence
Forces] bombing of an Al-Shabab stronghold.

However, according to intelligence reports seen by The Star, Abubakar is
planning to establish terror cells in Mombasa and recruit more youth to join the
Al-Shabab group.

"We suspect he could also be planning to free British terrorist Grant and a
Kenyan, Thabit Yahya, among others, from the Shimo la Tewa Maximum Security
Prison," said a senior police officer.

Abubakar was charged with being in possession of explosives, a member of an
organized group and preparation to commit a felony.

He jumped bail in November 2011, after he and two suspects, Grant's wife Warder
Breikh Islam and Frank Ngala, were granted 20m-shilling [223,000 dollars] bond
each and one surety by a Mombasa court.

An arrest warrant was issued and he has repeatedly ignored police summons.

Grant was charged with Abubakar and Warda Breik Islam with being in possession
of explosive materials. Abubakar also denied another count - of harbouring an
alien.

Abubakar escaped a police raid on 28 October, 2012, where police gunned down
terror suspects Omar Faraj, 30, and Titus Nabiswa, 27, a Muslim convert from
Western Kenya, in the Majengo area of Mombasa.

Police sources said Abubakar escaped with bullet wounds after he jumped through
a window during the raid by ATPU officers.

Police are also seeking Ismael Shosi Mohamed, aka Ismael Mmanga, a member of
Al-Shabab in Mombasa.

Shosi is believed to be holed up within Majengo and Likoni, where his parents
live.

"We have deployed undercover officers within Majengo, Old Town and Likoni, where
we believe most Al-Shabab returnees are hiding. We have also questioned
relatives, but they have not revealed much," said a senior police officer.

Detectives believe Shosi was behind the shooting of Mohamed Ibrahim, the senior
CIU officer who was murdered in Old Town, Mombasa, three weeks ago.

Also wanted are Abubakar Majani and Hamisi Mwacheti, aka Bilal, aka Rasta.

Mmanga is said to be an associate of the Jeysh Ayman commander, Luqman Osman
Issa, aka Shirwa.

Another terrorist on the list is Mahir Khalid Riziki, an associate of Ismael
Shosi Mohamed and involved in the slaying of Sheikh Idris Mohamed and other
clerics.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 6 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

India: Delhi on high alert after intelligence inputs on possible terror attack

LENGTH: 454 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper Hindu website on 6 April

New Delhi: The National Capital Region is on high alert with the Intelligence
Bureau (IB) expecting a possible terror attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) in
one or more public places over the coming days.

Areas such as Delhi Cantonment and paramilitary installations across the NCR
have also been asked to step up foot patrolling and security measures.

"We have received inputs that JeM cadres will attempt to enter the Capital from
Ghaziabad following which suicide attacks could be executed by them in one or
more sensitive locations here simultaneously," said an official.

According to an agency source, several members belonging to the group, which was
allegedly involved in the Parliament attack of 2001, were understood to have
entered the country for the purpose between late March and early April.

The potential attack(s) are being viewed as a direct retaliation to the
Bharatiya Janata Party's electoral feat in Jammu in addition to revenge for the
neutralisation of two JeM cadres after they attacked an Indian Army base in the
Samba sector on March 21.

The input, the source said, was based on ground-level intelligence gathered from
State units located in the Northern and Eastern parts of the country, which
reported suspicious movement along the international border in addition to a
slew of illegal attempts to gain access to the country soon after the Samba
attack.

The inputs, generated over the past week, were then forwarded to the Multi
Agency Centre (MAC), which is under the Ministry of Home Affairs for
consideration before being disseminated to respective police forces of North
Indian States.

A senior Delhi Police official, however, chose neither to confirm nor deny the
receipt of the inputs stating that it could be prejudicial to the Capital's
security.

Similar inputs had suggested an impending strike by seven alleged members of the
Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh tasked with executing a terror bid in the
Capital during U.S. President Barack Obama's visit to the Capital around
Republic Day.

The contingent had travelled from Dhaka to Iraq to participate in a month-long
daura-e-aam or basic military training course organised by them by the Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant.

"The group travelled to Saudi Arabia and took a flight to Dhaka from the King
Fahd International Airport located in the eastern region of Dammam in the first
week of January," an official said.

"Its members slipped off the radar after having landed in Dhaka and might try to
slip into the country via Kolkata; we are in the process of ascertaining their
allegiance to the JeM," the official added.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 06 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Kenyan paper raps authorities for failing to learn from past terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 715 words


Text of editorial entitled "Hard questions after Garissa means no lessons
learnt" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website
on 6 April

Barely 24 hours had passed after President Uhuru Kenyatta's incendiary remarks
about Britain's latest travel advisory when the country was thrown into mourning
following the massacre of 147 students at Garissa University.

While issuing travel advisories against Kenya in the firm belief the country was
not safe, Britain had accused our intelligence services of reluctance to share
intelligence information, something that Mr Kenyatta discounted, and in a
derogatory manner even dismissed tourists from Britain as taxi drivers.

According to the president, Kenya has shared all the intelligence it has on
Al-Shabab and that Britain was being dishonest and intent on sabotaging the
country economically.

That was unfortunate because the siege at Garissa University once again laid
bare the serious flaws in the security apparatus, stemming mainly from a lack of
structured command in times of emergencies.

The experience of the Westgate Mall attack in September 2013 seems to have
counted for nothing as the same mistakes were clearly repeated from disregard of
intelligence to the response when the attack had happened.

The Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and the police in Garissa arrived at the
university earlier than the elite Recce squad but lack of requisite training in
such situations and the need to minimize casualties did not allow them enough
room to salvage the situation until the specialized Recce Company of the General
Service Unit arrived almost 15 hours later.

Whereas the Recce Company mobilized in good time ready for airlifting to Garissa
at their Ruiru Base once the alarm was raised, it is emerging that the time it
took for them to move from their base to Garissa was longer than the time it
took them to neutralize the terrorists.

Given that this was a siege situation, Inspector General of Police Joseph
Boinett, under whose command the General Service Unit falls, should have used
his discretion to deploy the paratroopers immediately without first seeking the
authority of the National Security Council.

The specialized nature of the Recce Company paratroopers was evidenced in the
fact that they took 15 minutes to end the siege. Theirs brought back memories of
the Israeli Commando raid on Entebbe in 1976 where Israeli commandos took only
35 minutes to rescue 100 hostages, kill six terrorists and 45 of the Ugandan
soldiers aiding them.

Reports indicate that even after the Recce were given the green light to go
ahead; some of them had to travel by road because of lack of adequate air
transport. The fact that the paratroopers left only after politicians and other
big men had rushed to the scene adds more poignancy to the situation.

Yet to blame all on the security agencies is to miss the point. Was there an
emergency exit at the hostels? And even if it's there, was it like in most
public places locked and the keys thrown away? Many buildings, including
government offices lack functioning emergency exits, making the occupants
sitting ducks in times of emergency. From schools, to supermarkets to colleges.

It is time that emergency and First Aid drills are included in school curricula
to equip the people with the basic skills to survive and save others in times of
emergency.

The laxity of the security and intelligence forces is amplified in the accounts
of students who survived the attack. Despite the susceptibility of Garissa,
given its proximity to the Somalia border and the warning of an impending
attack, the university was guarded by only two policemen.

Students claim the attackers were able to carry out reconnaissance a week
earlier as strangers were sighted on the compound but nobody queried them.

Even as we contend that terrorism is a global scourge, those in authority must
take cognizance of the fact that Kenya is no longer an island of peace in
turbulent seas. The waves are all over us, and to the country cannot continually
retrieve bodies of the dead.

Following every terrorist attack since the 2013 Westgate Mall attack, Kenyans
are always being assured that they are more secure, yet a repeat of a bigger
magnitude ensues.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 6 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Ugandan leader sends condolences to Kenya following terror attack

LENGTH: 531 words


Text of report by Ugandan privately-owned Chimp Reports news website on 5 April

[Report by Sam Waswa: "Museveni calls for joint force to fight Al-Shabaab"]

President Museveni has joined world leaders to "strongly condemn" the grisly
attack on Garissa University in Kenya in which at least 147 students were
brutally murdered by Al Shabaab militants on April 2.

"We have learnt with shock and horror that gunmen invaded Garissa University
near Kenya's border with Somalia on Thursday [2 April] in a brutal and senseless
terror attack, killing scores of students who were just getting up to start the
day. The terrorist group, Al-Shabaab, unashamedly announced that they were
behind this criminal attack," said Museveni in a statement to Chimpreports on
Easter Sunday.

Museveni, who authorised the deployment of hundreds of Ugandan soldiers in
Somalia to stabilise the country, said, "The terrorism threat by extremist
forces is one of the most urgent problems facing our region."

He said this "calls for a common strategy and joint efforts by all the countries
in our region to fight and defeat the terrorist forces that are determined to
roll back the gains we have together been making."

US President Barack Obama, Pope Francis and Rwanda's Paul Kagame have since
condemned the Garissa bloodbath.

The terrorists raided the institution of learning the morning hours of Thursday
before taking students hostage and killing them with gunshots.

Museveni said, "This attack on Garissa University is an attack not only on Kenya
but on our entire region. The students massacred at Garissa are citizens of
Kenya, but they are the children of all of us in the region, who were preparing
to take on various roles to move our region forward."

He said Government and people of Uganda stand with the government and people of
Kenya at this moment as they try to deal with the tragedy at Garissa University.

"We commend the contribution that Kenya, under AMISOM, continues to make to
fight terrorism in Somalia as we all work together to rid our region of
terrorism. Uganda will continue to work with Kenya and all other countries of
the region to move forward the frontiers of peace and eliminate terrorism from
our midst," he added.

Kenya president Uhuru Kenyatta described the Garissa incident as "the most
lethal terrorist attack on Kenya since the 1998 US Embassy bombing."

During the day-long ordeal, the terrorists took more than 800 students hostage;
thankfully, more than 600 were rescued.

Kenyan security forces responded and killed 4 of the terrorists while arresting
five.

Museveni said Ugandans' "prayers are with the families of the people who were
brutally murdered in this attack as well as those who were injured. May this
horrendous massacre of our children not break our spirit in the struggle against
terrorism and extremism but, instead, strengthen our resolve even further and
bring us closer together."

He concluded: "On behalf of the people of Uganda, the government of Uganda, and
on my own behalf, may I extend our deepest condolences to the people of Kenya as
they mourn the loss of their beloved ones. May God rest their souls in eternal
peace."

Source: Chimp Reports in English 5 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        April 6, 2015 Monday 8:20 PM GMT

Boston bomber targeted 'women and children in cold terrorist' attack

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 427 words


A TERROR suspect targeted men, women and children at the Boston marathon because
he wanted to punish the United States when the eyes of the world were watching,
a court heard.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who is charged with conspiring to set off the bombs at the
race in April 2013, "wanted to terrorise" the US and placed the bomb where he
could do the most damage, prosecutors claimed.

Three people were killed and more than 260 were injured when two pressure-cooker
bombs exploded near the finish line.

Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan, were named as the key suspects behind
the plan and police pursued them as they went on the run.

Tamerlan was killed in a shootout with police while Dzhokhar, 19 at the time,
was caught.

Speaking during the closing statements today, Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke
Chakravarty told the court: "He chose a day when there would be civilians on the
sidewalks.

"He and his brother targeted those civilians, men, woman and children, because
he wanted to make a point.

"He wanted to terrorize this country.

"He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people.

"So that's what he did."

He added: "This was a cold, intentional, terrorist act."

Aloke Chakravarty, assistant U.S. Attorney

The jury were shown a photo of Tsarnaev standing just feet behind eight-year-old
victim Martin Richard and his family.

The photo showed other children standing on a metal barricade watching runners
cross the finish line.

One of the bombs was placed at that location.

Mr Chakravarty told jurors: "These children weren't innocent to him. They were
American.

"Of all the places that he could have placed the bomb, he placed it right here."

The court was also shown a horrific video of the gruesome aftermath.

The clip featured people screaming in horror, pools of blood everywhere and
bodies scattered on the road.

Tsarnaev's defence admit that he did participate in the bombing but argue that
it was his brother Tamerlan, 26, who was the mastermind behind the attack.

Judy Clarke, defending, told the court during the trial that Tsarnaev was
enlisted by his increasingly radicalised brother and he did not have the initial
thoughts.

Tsarnaev could now face the death penalty if convicted.

Related articles Boston bomber trial: Bloodied bullet-holed 'confession' note
written by suspect emerges Boston bombing survivor: It was pure carnage. I could
see my bones and flesh sticking out US seeks death penalty against Boston
Marathon bombing suspect

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        April 6, 2015 Monday 7:44 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack: 'I ate body lotion to survive' says student found hiding
for TWO DAYS

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 362 words


A TEENAGE woman has emerged as a survivor of the Kenyan university terrorist
attack, two days after the barbaric siege.

PA

Student Cynthia Cheroitich had a miraculous escape

Student Cynthia Cheroitich, 19, ate body lotion to quench her thirst while
barricading herself in a wardrobe and hiding under a pile of clothes while
violent terrorists rampaged through her school.

The teenager had to crouch and listen to her classmates be shot dead as she
cowered inside the cupboard for two days.

Five gunmen stormed Garissa University College in the northeastern Kenyan town
on Thursday, after peppering the site with grenades.

The sick men then singled out Christians from the university while freeing
Muslims in traditional dress.

EPA

Cherotich said that she had been hiding in a wardrobe refusing to come out

Brave Ms Cheroitich crawled inside the cupboard in a classroom and refused to
come out of the wardrobe for two days.

She refused to leave, even with al-Shabaab militants ordered she and her
classmates to do so.

She even feared rescuers were militants, only revealing herself at 10am this
morning when one of her teachers appealed to her.

She said: "How do I know that you are the Kenyan police?

"I was just praying to my God."

EPA

One of the university students who were rescued, is overwhelmed by grief

EPA

One of the students who were rescued is helped by Kenyan female soldiers

Cheroitich appeared tired and thirsty, sipping on yoghurt and a soft drink, but
otherwise seemed in good health.

Another student, Cheruiot Tiebafy, said he smeared himself in blood to appear
dead to the attackers.

He said: "Actually I am the only man who survived from all the boys who were
held hostage.

"I just smeared the blood of my colleagues, I ate the blood to be my lunch and I
go to sleep there for around 13 good hours when we got to be hostage and I
pretended to be dead.

"They turned me around, they kicked me but I'm alive."

Related articles US drone strike kills al-Shabab leader responsible for Kenyan
mall attack Kenya terror attack: Al-Shabab warns cities 'will run red with
blood' from more attacks Sick Islamist militants taunted victims before killing
them  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              April 6, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Arson attack terror at home

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 109 words


A WOMAN suffered a terrifying arson attack as she sat at home.

Detectives believe a flaming bag of dog muck was posted through the letter box
of a home on Northway Crescent, Mir-field.

The attack, possibly due to a neighbourhood dispute, was at about 5.30pm on
Saturday. Firefighters attended along with a fire investigation officer.

Det Insp Ian Thornes of Huddersfield CID urged anyone with information to come
forward.

He said: "A 32-year-old woman was in the property at the time. A man went out to
the local shops and when he came back he found the area around his front door on
fire. He managed to stamp it out."

Call 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              April 6, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BASEBALL BAT GANG IN TERROR ATTACK;
Couple subjected to frightening masked raid ordeal in their own home

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


MASKED thugs attacked a couple in their own home as they watched TV.

Now detectives have appealed for helping in catching the men, who were armed
with wooden baseball bats.

e terrifying raid happened at the couple's home in Slaithwaite and the male
victim ended up in hospital with serious head injuries.

Det Insp Ian ornes, right, said: "We believe this was a targeted attack."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Manchester Road, close to the centre of Slaithwaite village

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 6, 2015
                                 First Edition

Kenyans pray for university-attack victims;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Tom Odula IN GARISSA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 133 words


Grieving Christians prayed, sang and clapped hands at an Easter Sunday service
at church services in Garissa, a Kenyan town where Islamic extremists killed 148
people in an attack on a school. Sunday's ceremony was laden with emotion for
the several hundred members of Garissa's Christian minority, which is fearful
following the attack by al--Shabaab, a Somalia--based Islam- ic extremist group.

The gunmen who attacked Gar- issa University College on Thursday singled out
Christians for killing, though al--Shabaab has a long record of killing Muslims
over the years.

The identity of one of the gunmen in the attack was revealed yesterday as
Abdirahim Mohammed Abdul- lahi, the son of a government chief in northern
Mandera County. "We just keep on praying," one worshipper, Dominick Odhiambo,
said. AP

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        April 6, 2015 Monday 7:32 AM GMT

Superflu pandemic is biggest danger to UK apart from a terrorist attack - and
could kill 80,000 people;
'Much of modern medicine' could become unsafe as disease become resistant to
modern drugs

BYLINE: Ian Johnston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words


As many as 80,000 people could be killed in an outbreak of a new kind of
superbug and "much of modern medicine" could become unsafe because diseases are
becoming resistant to modern drugs, according to a new Government report.

Amid growing concern about the rise of antibiotic and anti-viral resistant bugs,
a document prepared by the Cabinet Office says that flu could become a "serious"
condition within 20 years because drugs may have little effect, The Daily
Telegraph reported. Pandemic influenza is classed as the biggest danger to the
UK apart from a major terrorist attack.

Surgical operations might also be affected by the increased chance of getting a
serious infection - to the point where organ transplants, bowel surgery and some
forms of cancer treatment might not be viable.

The document, called the National Risk Register of Civil Emergencies, describes
the dangers of anti-microbial resistance (AMR) in the UK as "particularly
serious".

"The number of infections complicated by AMR are expected to increase markedly
over the next 20 years," it says.

READ MORE: Prepare for more Ebola-like outbreaks

"If a widespread outbreak were to occur, we could expect around 200,000 people
to be affected by a bacterial blood infection that could not be treated
effectively with existing drugs, and around 80,000 of these might die.

"High numbers of deaths could also be expected from other forms of antimicrobial
resistant infection."

The potential effects on surgery are spelled out in dramatic terms.

"Without effective antibiotics, even minor surgery and routine operations could
become high-risk procedures, leading to increased duration of illness and
ultimately premature mortality," it says.

"Much of modern medicine, for example organ transplantation, bowel surgery and
some cancer treatments may become unsafe due to the risk of infection."

While flu may have lost its reputation as a killer, the report says this might
change.

"Influenza pandemics would become more serious without effective treatments,"
it adds.

A strain of the potentially lethal E. coli bacteria already has no known
effective treatment.

Other diseases showing growing signs of drug resistance include tuberculosis,
malaria, HIV, Klebsiella pneumonia and Staphylococcus aureus, which infects the
skin.

The drug-resistant MRSA bug kills about 50,000 people in the US and Europe at
the moment, the report says.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

KENYA IN MOURNING OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: AGENCY:NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 129  words


KENYA is holding three days of mourning for the 148 victims of an attack on
students by militant group al-Shabab. Ceremonies are being held to remember
those who died on Thursday at Garissa University. President Uhuru Kenyatta has
vowed to respond to the attack "in the severest way possible".

One of the four gunmen who carried out the attack has been identified as the son
of a Government official. He was named as Abdirahim Abdullahi, whose father is a
chief in Mandera County in the north-east of the country. The four gunmen were
killed during the siege, and officials say they are holding five people for
questioning.

The Kenyan Red Cross says that so far 54 of the victims have been identified.
Almost all of the 148 killed were students and another 79 people were injured.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday

Iran arrests suspects of terror attack in southwestern province - police

LENGTH: 132 words


Text of report by Iranian official government news agency IRNA website

Ahvaz, Khuzestan Province, 7 April: The suspects behind a recent terrorist
attack in this southwestern Iranian province were arrested, a provincial deputy
police chief told IRNA on Tuesday [7 April].

The terror suspects were identified and arrested on Monday [6 April] thanks to
the round-the-clock efforts made by the police force, Colonel Rahman Musavi
said.

The police official did not mention the number of the arrested [people], saying
the details will be released soon. The arrested are under interrogation, he
added.

On April 2, three Iranian policemen were killed and two more were injured in a
terrorist attack in Khuzestan Province.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0525gmt 07 Apr
15

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday

Kenyan journalists given access to scene of terror attack in Garissa

LENGTH: 305 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 7
April

Journalists were given access to Garissa University College on Monday [6 April]
for the first time since Al-Shabab terrorists attacked it and killed 148 people.

The college was closed after the Thursday [2 April] dawn attack, the worst since
the 1998 Nairobi US embassy bombing.

At the Garissa college, pavements have patches of blood, while the air is filled
with a putrid smell.

The university has only one gate. It is surrounded by a barbed wire fence, which
seems to have made escape difficult for fleeing students. Many of the survivors
had injuries inflicted by the fence.

Elgon A hostel is where most killings happened, according to police. Its floor
is covered in blood .

The attackers are said to have locked exit and entrance doors, making it
impossible for the students to escape, then taunted the victims before killing
them.

The attackers forced the victims to call their relatives before they were
killed, according to the students who escaped.

The hostel is also where special forces gunned down four terrorists. In the
two-storey building, books and other items are scattered everywhere.

The building's roof is riddled with bullet holes while its windows are
shattered. On top of the second floor, some clothes that had been washed before
the attack still hang.

Speaking to journalists at the college, Garissa County Commissioner Njenga Miiri
said all doors to the hostels, lectures halls and other buildings at the
institution had been locked to safeguard the students' belongings.

"We are planning to take inventory of all property left behind by students, with
the support of the college management, to ensure what is found here is safely
delivered to their respective owners," he said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 7 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday

Six suspects linked to Kenyan university terror attack remanded for 30 days

LENGTH: 331 words


Text of report by Alphonce Mung'ahu entitled "Six Garissa University terror
suspects remanded 30 days" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily
Nation website on 7 April

Six suspects linked to the Garissa University College massacre have been
remanded for 30 more days pending the completion of a probe.

Senior state counsel Daniel Karuri said the suspects, arrested within Garissa
town on April 2 and 3, are yet to reveal accomplices still at large.

The suspects are Mohamed Adan Surow, Osman Abdi Dakane, Rashid Charles Mberesero
aka Rehani Dida, Mohamed Abdi Abikar, Hassan Aden Hassan and Sahal Diriye
Hussein. They were not charged when they appeared before resident magistrate
Benson Nzioka on Tuesday [7 April].

Karuri said Surow works at a hotel in Garissa town, where evidence shows the
attackers had several meals, and that they are well known to him. He said Dakane
is a security guard at the university, who was seen making calls and taking
pictures when the public was asked to assist with the removal of bodies.

He said call records show that he spoke to individuals in Somalia, suspected to
be al Shabaab operatives connected to the attack. The court heard that Mberesero
is a Tanzanian who failed to explain his presence at the scene. Karuri said he
was arrested when he was found under a bed in a dormitory in which some of the
students were killed.

He said the suspect claimed to be a student when questioned by the police and
gave his name as Rashid Dida but later changed it to Rashid Charles Mberesero.
Lecturers at the university denied his claims. Karuri said Abikar, Hassan and
Hussein were arrested on the day of the attack in a bus from Garissa. They are
suspected to have been on their way to Somalia after delivering weapons. Their
case will be mentioned on May 7.

Eleven other terror suspects linked to the al Shabaab militia group were
remanded for 15 days to allow the completion of investigations.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 7 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday

Hundreds of Kenyans, students across world mourn terror attack victims

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report by Lydia Matata entitled "Hundreds attend vigil for students
killed in Garissa attack" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper
The Star on 7 April

Hundreds of people have gathered at the Freedom Corner Uhuru Park, Nairobi to
mourn the deaths of 147 students killed in a terror attack at the Garissa
University College last week.

Tuesday's [7 April] vigil which was organised by activist Boniface Mwangi,
coincides with the last day of the official three-day mourning period declared
by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday.

Those attending the vigil have lit candles to mourn the victims while 147 white
crosses are being used to represent the students who died.

University students had earlier held a demonstration in Nairobi against the
terror attack. This comes as students in campuses across the world held similar
demonstrations and vigils in solidarity with Kenyans.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 7 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 7, 2015 Tuesday 1:54 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing: Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's fate now rests with jury;
Monday marks closing arguments in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, during which
the prosecution calls the attack 'a cold, calculated terrorist act'

BYLINE: Nicky Woolf in Boston

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 844 words


Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's fate now moves to the hands of a jury, after a vehement and
emotionally charged closing statement from the prosecutor in the Boston bombing
trial on Monday.

Assistant US attorney Aloke Chakravarty strove to remind jurors of the sheer
horror of the 2013 marathon bomb attack, focusing on Martin Richard, the young
boy who was killed by the second bomb, and whose father was in the courtroom.

"His entire body was shattered; broken; eviscerated; burned," Chakravarty said.
"There wasn't a part of this boy's body that wasn't destroyed."

It was part of a dramatic day in a federal court in Boston, as the jury heard
closing arguments in the trial of Tsarnaev, the younger and only survivor of two
brothers accused of perpetrating the bomb attack on the 2013 Boston Marathon
that left three dead and hundreds injured.

It is now down to the jury to decide whether to find Tsarnaev guilty on the 30
counts against him, of which 17 carry a possible death sentence.

If Tsarnaev is found guilty of one or all of the capital offences with which he
is charged, the trial will enter a second phase, known as the sentencing phase.
In this phase, the same jury will hear more evidence and testimony, following
which they will decide whether to give Tsarnaev the death penalty. A vote for
death must be unanimous.

As he laid out the prosecution's case for the jury, Chakravarty referred to
Richard's father, Bill, who had previously testified with piercing pathos: "I
guess we were just unlucky that day."

"There was nothing about this day that was a twist of fate," Chakravarty said,
his voice filled with anger. "This was a cold, calculated terrorist act. It was
intentional; it was bloodthirsty."

The prosecution replayed for the jury the video taken of the bomb detonating in
the crowd outside the Forum restaurant on Boylston Street, and followed it
immediately with the harrowing and extremely graphic video shot on a camera
phone immediately afterward that filled the courtroom with the sounds of terror.

Chakravarty was also careful to portray the relationship between Tsarnaev and
his elder brother Tamerlan as being one of partnership, to counter the defense's
narrative of a young, weak-minded follower in thrall to his more powerful and
radicalised elder sibling.

"That day they felt like they were soldiers. They were mujahideen, and they were
bringing their battle to Boston," said Chakravarty, who multiple times during
his statement referred to the brothers as "partners" and said they were "in this
together".

Central to the prosecution's case was the manifesto on the wall of the
dry-docked boat in which Tsarnaev was found by police: "The US Government is
killing our innocent civilians but most of you already know that... we Muslims
are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all."

It is not thought that the jury will take long to reach their verdict. While
Tsarnaev has entered an official plea of not guilty, his defence team have
effectively entered a guilty plea by default. In her opening statement, defence
attorney Judy Clarke opened with the striking words "it was him", and in her
closing statement Monday she reiterated that sentiment.

"In the past few weeks we have come face to face with tragedy, suffering and
grief in dimensions that none of us could imagine possible," Clarke said. "For
this destruction, suffering and profound loss there is no excuse. No one is
trying to make one. Planting bombs at the Boston Marathon one year and 51 weeks
ago was a senseless act."

However, speaking quietly, and occasionally trying to joke with the jury, Clarke
moved to promote the defence's narrative - that of a young, troubled Tsarnaev
(to whom she referred, as she has throughout, by his university nickname
"Jahar") in thrall to his powerful older brother Tamerlan.

"The prosecution attempted to bring evidence that Jahar was an equal partner and
he self-radicalised - this is simply not true," she said. "The evidence is that
Tamerlan built the bombs, Tamerlan murdered Officer Collier, Tamerlan led and
Jahar followed."

She also took the government to task for "cherrypicking" tweets from Tsarnaev's
account to portray him as self-radicalised and paint a picture of "evil",
leaving out tweets about girls, not doing homework and the pleasures of going
back to sleep after breakfast.

But in a brief rebuttal following Clarke's statement, prosecuting attorney
William Weinreb hit back at the defence. "[Clarke] told us in her opening
statement that her client is not going to sidestep responsibility for what he
did," he said, "but that is exactly what he is trying to do.

"He's entirely to try to pin the blame on somebody else," Weinreb continued,
"but you should see that for what it is. It's an attempt to sidestep
responsibility, not to take responsibility."

"To shred the bodies of women and children... you have to be different from
other people," Weinreb said.

"If you are capable of such hate, such callousness, that you could murder and
maim nearly 20 people, then drive to Whole Foods to buy milk - can you really
blame it on your brother?"

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Malian government strongly condemns 6 April terror attack in north

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report by Malian state-owned ORTM TV on 7 April

[Communique issued by Malian Government in Bamako on 7 April; read by announcer]

Now we bring to you this communique from the government.

The Government of the Republic of Mali hereby informs the national and
international opinion that on 6 April 2015, four gunmen on two motorbikes
stormed the Diafarabe weekly fair in Teninkou Circle, Fifth Region, to
intimidate the stallholders before heading to the Forestry Guard base to
assassinate the post commander. After this ignoble act, they tried to profane
the national flag at the town hall. The same assailants were reported in Duara,
Galo, and Ouromodi.

The Government of the Republic of Mali extends heartfelt condolences to the
family of the deceased and solidarity to the Diafarabe residents.

The Government of the Republic of Mali strongly condemns those barbarous and
terrorists acts on peaceful citizens and devoted servants of the state.

The security and armed forces are on the trails of the bandits so as to put them
out of action.

The Government of the Republic of Mali hereby reiterates that those terrorist
acts only aim to undermine the ongoing peace process whose final outcome will
help isolate and eradicate all the terror groups on our territory and in the
subregional space.

The Government of the Republic of Mali calls on the population to remain
vigilant and cooperate with the armed forces and their partners towards
neutralizing all those terror groups trying to undermine the efforts made by
Mali and the international community to stabilize and secure the national
territory. [end recording]

Source: ORTM TV, Bamako, in French 2000 gmt 7 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Tanzanian minister says security improved following terror attack fears

LENGTH: 100 words


Excerpt from report by state-owned TBC (Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation) radio
website on 8 April

Deputy internal affairs minister Perreira Ame Silima has said the government has
taken steps to improve security in various parts of the country following social
media reports of terror attacks by people thought to be Al-Shabab.

Talking to TBC, Silima said the government had not played down the social media
reports. He said people were going about with their business but should be
vigilant [passage omitted on report on events in Kenya].

Source: TBC-Taifa radio website, Dar es Salaam, in Swahili 8 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      April 8, 2015 Wednesday 9:01 PM GMT

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty of Boston Marathon bombing that killed three and
injured hundreds;
DZHOKHAR Tsarnaev was told the attack was 'a cold, calculated terrorist act' and
he now faces the death penalty.

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 355 words


BOSTON marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been found guilty of killing three
people and injuring 264 at the city's most popular sporting event.

A jury found the 21-year-old guilty of 30 offences, including the fatal shooting
of a police officer four days after the bombing on April 15, 2013.

Eight-year-old boy Martin Richard, 23-year-old Lingzi Lu and 29-year-old Krystle
Campbell were killed and 16 others were seriously wounded when the two
shrapnel-packed pressure-cooker bombs were detonated.

Jurors spent just over 11 hours evaluating Tsarnaev's guilt in two days of
deliberations following 16 days of testimony, writes the Mirror.

The jury will now decide whether the 21-year-old former student should be
sentenced to death or receive life in prison.

Defense lawyers tried to argue that while Tsarnaev committed the crimes , he did
so at the bidding of his older brother Tamerlan, 26, who died following a
gunfight with police in Watertown, Massachusetts.

Prosecutors claimed that the defendant, an ethnic Chechen who immigrated from
Russia a decade before the attack, had read and listened to jihadist materials
before the attack.

It is also claimed he wrote a note in the boat where he was found hiding
suggesting the bombing was an act of retribution for U.S. military campaigns in
Muslim-dominated countries.

Prosecutor Aloke Chakravarty rubbished the claims that he was under orders from
his brother.

He told the court: "That day, they felt they were soldiers.

"They were the mujahedeen, and they were bringing their battle to Boston."

As for the youngsters killed or maimed by the bomb that was in Dzhokhar's
backpack, Mr Chakravarty said: "These children weren't innocent to him.

Boston explosions

"They were American.

"Of all the places that he could have placed the bomb, he placed it right
there."

Following the terrorist attack Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan went on the
run.

As they tried to escape authorities they also shot and killed a police officer
dead.

Tamerlan, 26, died four days after the attack when he was run over by his
brother during a gunfight with police.

Try our quick news quiz below:

Quick Quiz: News 8/4/2015

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      April 8, 2015 Wednesday 7:10 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bomber GUILTY of 2013 terror attack

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 531 words


BOSTON Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been found guilty of the 2013
"cold, calculated terrorist" attack - which saw three people killed and more
than 260 wounded.

The killer could now become the first person since 1947 to face the death
penalty in the state of Massachusetts.

Tsarnaev was today found guilty of all 30 charges relating to the callous attack
- including the use of weapons of mass destruction and the killing of a police
officer.

According to US law, 17 of the 30 counts carry a possible death sentence.

The verdict came on the eve of the two year anniversary of the 4/15/2013
bombings.

He will now return to court for the second stage of his trial where he will
discover whether he will be sentenced to death or life in prison.

During his month-long trial, jurors heard how Tsarnaev conspired with his
brother to set off two homemade bombs close to the finish line of the
well-watched race.

His defense admitted he was involved in the attack but argued that it was his
older brother Tamerlan - who died in a shootout with police - who was the brains
behind the plan.

His attorney Judy Clarke told the court it was Tamerlan who bought the bomb
parts, built the bombs and planned the attack.

Assistant Attorney General Aloke Chakravarty

As the trial went on, jurors heard how Tsarnaev emigrated to the US with his
family from Chechnya and was quickly taken in by Islamic extremist ideals.

Tsarnaev, a 19-year-old student at the time of the attack, is said to have owned
two Twitter accounts.

One where he wrote about "girls, cars, studying and sleeping" and another hidden
account where he posted his extreme views on jihadism.

A tweet on his radical account read: "Dua [prayers of supplication] is truly the
weapon of the believer, pray for the oppressed it is your duty."

And another said: "It's our responsibility my brothers & sisters to Allah to
ease the hardships of the oppressed and give us victory over kufr."

Yet two hours after detonating the deadly pressure cooker bombs, he wrote on his
"student account" @J_Tsar, Tsarnaev: "Ain't no love in the heart of the city,
stay safe people."

The brothers detonated the explosions within seconds of one another at 671 and
755 Boylston Street during the race on April 15, 2013.

A video played to the court showed the chaotic aftermath with people screaming
in horror, pools of blood everywhere and bodies scattered on the road.

Three people were killed - including eight-year-old Martin Richard - and more
than 260 were injured.

Assistant Attorney General Aloke Chakravarty said: "This was a cold, calculated
terrorist act. This was intentional. It was bloodthirsty. It was to make a
point.

"He wanted to terrorise this country.

"He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people.

"So that's what he did."

Tsarnaev and his brother, 26, went on the run for four days as a nationwide
manhunt was launched.

They killed a police officer and hijacked a an SUV vehicle before Tamerlan was
killed in a shootout with officers.

Tsarnaev was later caught hiding injured and unarmed in a local resident's in a
dry-docked boat.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 8, 2015 Wednesday 8:22 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing: Dzhokhar Tsarnaev faces death penalty after being found
guilty of killing three and injuring hundreds;
Prosecutors claimed the attack was "a cold, calculated terrorist act" and now
faces the death penalty

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


A jury has found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty of carrying out the Boston Marathon
bombing that killed three and injured 264.

The attack, carried out in 2013 by the 21-year-old, saw him charged with a
sprawling 30-count indictment, with 17 of the charges carrying the death
penalty.

He was found guilty of all 30 charges.

Eight-year-old boy Martin Richard, 23-year-old Lingzi Lu and 29-year-old Krystle
Campbell were killed and 16 others were seriously wounded when the two
shrapnel-packed pressure-cooker bombs were detonated.

Jurors spent just over 11 hours evaluating Tsarnaev's guilt in two days of
deliberations following 16 days of testimony.

The jury will now decide whether the 21-year-old former student should be
sentenced to death or receive life in prison.

Defense lawyers tried to argue that while Tsarnaev committed the crimes, he did
so at the bidding of his older brother Tamerlan, 26, who died following a
gunfight with police in Watertown, Massachusetts.

Prosecutors claimed that the defendant, an ethnic Chechen who immigrated from
Russia a decade before the attack, had read and listened to jihadist materials
before the attack.

It is also claimed he wrote a note in the boat where he was found hiding
suggesting the bombing was an act of retribution for U.S. military campaigns in
Muslim-dominated countries.

Prosecutor Aloke Chakravarty rubbished the claims that he was under orders from
his brother.

He told the court: "That day, they felt they were soldiers.

"They were the mujahedeen, and they were bringing their battle to Boston."

As for the youngsters killed or maimed by the bomb that was in Dzhokhar's
backpack, Mr Chakravarty said: "These children weren't innocent to him.

Boston explosions

"They were American.

"Of all the places that he could have placed the bomb, he placed it right
there."

Following the terrorist attack Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan went on the
run.

As they tried to escape authorities they also shot and killed a police officer
dead.

Tamerlan, 26, died four days after the attack when he was run over by his
brother during a gunfight with police.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Western diplomats told Kenya of imminent terrorist attacks - report

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report by Aggrey Mutambo entitled "Envoys 'told Kenya of possible
attack'" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 9
April

Foreign missions in Nairobi say they shared with the Kenya government
intelligence on imminent terrorist attacks.

Some envoys said the information could have been used to avert the killing of
148 people at Garissa University College.

Western diplomats interviewed by the Nation said it was routine to share such
information, which also led to the decision by the UK and Australia to revise
their travel advisories on some parts of Kenya.

"It is a general practice to exchange information. Sometimes we get it and pass
it to Kenyan authorities or other missions. At times Kenyan authorities pass it
to us and other embassies," said a diplomat, who asked to remain anonymous.

And a UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office official told the Nation that their
warning to British nationals was based on information from diplomatic reports,
media, local knowledge and intelligence agencies, including Kenyan authorities.

"The security assessment leading to travel advice is shared with the Kenyan
Government," the British diplomat said.

The official disputed claims that the UK's warnings were selective and targeted
Kenya, saying London has a duty to advise its citizens "based solely on an
objective assessment of the threat against British nationals abroad".

However, the government refuted claims that it sat on the advice about an
imminent attack, saying the information it received was general.

Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said Kenya did not get any
specific and "actionable" information on the Garissa attack.

"The government receives a lot of information that is of a generalised nature
and too vague to be acted upon.

"Governments need specific information in order to step up pre-emptive actions,"
she said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 9 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops condemns Garissa terror attack

LENGTH: 377 words


Text of report by Patrick Vidija entitled "John Cardinal Njue warns of religious
war" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 9 April

John Cardinal Njue, the Archbishop of Nairobi, yesterday warned of a possible
religious war due to the increase in Al-Shabab attacks targeting Christians.
Njue said the government should get to the bottom of terrorism and
radicalisation without politicising it.

He was speaking at Chiromo Mortuary [Nairobi], where he condoled with the
families bereaved by last Thursday's [2 April] Garissa University College
[eastern Kenya] attack in which 147 students and staff were killed. Njue was
with Education PS [principal secretary] Belio Kipsang.

He urged the government to beef up security and address the breakdown in the
security intelligence system.

"It is saddening many Kenyan youth are being radicalised to terrorise their
fellow citizens. We all need to join hands and embrace the spirit of nationalism
and patriotism," Njue said.

"It is unfortunate some of these terrorists live among us, yet we cannot report
them to relevant authorities."

He said any time there is an attack, fear erupts between Christians and Muslims
about whether Muslims are behind the attacks.

Njue said that mistrust might put the nation in an awkward position if not well
handled.

"In the awake of such regular attacks in our country, we call on President Uhuru
and his security agencies to formulate an emergency response strategy for the
country," he said.

Njue said Uhuru should ask how prepared we are to respond to terror and how
students and all Kenyans are prepared to respond to attacks to minimise
casualties.

"This is why we call on the government to speed up and provide mandatory
emergency training," he said.

Njue urged religious leaders to stop teaching and preaching hatred against
people who do not subscribe to their religion and doctrines.

The Education Ministry, the Teachers Service Commission, boards of management
and university councils should carefully and continuously vet their employees to
ensure they are not used to radicalise students and recruit them to join
subversive groups, he said.

Njue said the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops condemns the Garissa attack.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 9 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Kenya's Moi University to admit survivors of Garissa terror attack

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by Michael Njuguna and Christine Muchira entitled "Survivors of
Garissa attack admitted to other campuses" published by state-owned Kenya
Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) website on 8 April

The government has directed Moi University to absorb all the Garissa University
students who survived last Thursday's [2 April] terrorist attack in its main
campus and branches in safer regions.

Speaking at a forum that brought together cabinet secretaries and other
stakeholders to address the Garissa attack in Nairobi, Education Cabinet
Secretary [CS] Professor Jacob Kaimenyi said his ministry is consulting
stakeholders on whether to permanently close the Garissa University or consider
re-opening it later.

"We have closed Garissa University college indefinitely," said Kaimenyi.

Defence Cabinet Secretary Rachelle Omamo said families of the victims of the
Garissa attack will each receive 100,000 shillings [1,100 dollars] towards
burial arrangements.

She further said the government will meet among others hospital and transports
expenses for victims families.

The CS said the government has laid down various mechanisms to tackle terrorism
in the country.

The devolution Cabinet Secretary Ann Waiguru said that the government is doing a
lot to solve the problem of radicalization through National Youth Service.

147 people were killed by terrorists when the Garissa University College came
under attack at dawn.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 8 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Report says Pakistani state sees 60 per cent reduction in terror attacks

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on 9 April

Peshawar: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has recorded a 60 per cent reduction in terrorist
attacks in the first three months of the current year compared to the same
period, last year, according to a police report.

The report said that during the first three months of 2015, 57 terror incidents
occurred compared to 139 in the corresponding period, last year. There has also
been a decrease in the casualties in the first quarter of this year as 51
persons were killed during the period compared to 179 killed in the first three
months of the previous year.

According to the statistics available with the police, only one incident of
suicide bombing occurred in the first three months, this year compared to five
such incidents, last year.

Similarly, a total of nine rocket and hand grenade attacks took place during the
first quarter compared to 22 incidents last year. A major decrease was witnessed
in the incidents of IED explosions as only 20 IED blasts occurred during the
period in focus compared to a huge 74 such incidents last year, the report said.

The lone suicide attack in the first quarter of the current year occurred at a
Shia mosque in Peshawar; however, the counterterrorism department succeeded in
not only identifying the suicide bomber, but also the group of terrorists
involved in the act, the police report maintained.

It said that the provincial counterterrorism department led by AIG Salahuddin
had, with the support of Intelligence Bureau, worked out 145 cases of terrorism.
Presently, all incidents of terrorism have been registered in CTD police
stations which exclusively handle these cases. The CTD also succeeded in
arresting 121 terrorists and six proclaimed offenders carrying head money, the
report concluded.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 09 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan paper discourages ethnic, religious profiling following terror attacks

LENGTH: 327 words


Text of editorial entitled "Leaders must be at forefront of battle" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 9 April

Leaders from northeast Kenya have boldly come out to condemn and commit
themselves to flushing out terrorists and extremists in their midst in the wake
of the massacre at Garissa University College [eastern Kenya] last week.

While a community cannot, and should not, be condemned for the wicked among its
members, it is patriotic to acknowledge the fact when many among its ranks are
linked to criminal activities.

An honest assessment of oneself or one's community is the starting point of
dealing with a crisis. The leaders from Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties have
stated that they will find and expose terrorists among their community as well
as their financiers and support networks.

This is most commendable, for it is common knowledge that some community
institutions have been infiltrated by extremists and been subverted to become
recruitment, indoctrination, and training centres for a warped jihadist ideology
that is not rooted in the Muslim faith.

This brave acknowledgement and pledge to action should be emulated by leaders in
all other places where mosques, madrassas and other community institutions have
been similarly debased.

Governors, MPs, religious and community leaders must be at the forefront in
guiding their impressionable youth away from the clutches of Al-Shabab
terrorists and any other criminal groups.

This will be the best way to complement wider efforts aimed at removing these
malcontents from society.

The government and the security agencies, in turn, must work in tandem with the
community leaders who demonstrate that they are committed to eliminating the
menace.

Cardinal here must be the acknowledgement that communities cannot be condemned
wholesale or subjected to ethnic and religious profiling or collective
punishment.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 9 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan opposition leader condemns slow response to Garissa terror attack

LENGTH: 288 words


Text of report by James Mbaka entitled "'Slow' response to Garissa attack cost
lives - Raila" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 9
April

[Opposition] Cord [Coalition for Reforms and Democracy] leader Raila Odinga has
condemned the government's response to the Garissa [eastern Kenya] terror attack
last Thursday [2 April]. Al-Shabab militants killed 147 students and injured 79
others in the dawn attack.

Addressing the press in his Capital Hill Office yesterday, Raila said more lives
would have been saved had the security agencies responded in time.

"There was sufficient intelligence on the attack but the government failed to
heed the earlier warnings to avert the attack," Raila said.

He asked why the government failed to utilise the Air Force aircrafts at its
disposal to transport members of the elite Recce squad.

The specialised commandos of the Kenya Police, based in Ruiru [central Kenya],
caught a flight to Garissa past midday, more than six hours after they were
alerted of the attack.

Raila slammed President Uhuru Kenyatta for defying a court order nullifying the
recruitment of 10,000 police.

"Uhuru is president by a virtue of a court order that threw out our presidential
court petition, which we respected," he said.

"If the president decides to defy an order by the court then it's an act likely
to cause anarchy," Raila said.

The Cord leader said the solution for the country's terror threats does not lie
on uptake of more security officers but investing in counter-terrorism measures.

Present were senators James Orengo(Siaya), Johnston Muthama(Machakos), Bony
Khalwale (Kakamega) and MPs Millie Odhiambo (Mbita) and Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren).

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 9 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MUM IS BLINDED IN SPRAY ATTACK;
Terror in the woods

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 124 words


A MUM was subjected to a terrifying attack which left her temporarily blind
while out for a walk with her young son.

She was grabbed from behind by a man who pulled her to the ground and sprayed
her in the face with a glue-like substance.

The attack took place in woods near Almond Court, Livingston, on Monday
afternoon.

The 45-year-old woman was rushed to St John's Hospital in the town. It is
believed she will make a full recovery.

She has told police her attacker had a Glasgow accent.

PC Stuart Ritchie said: "This was a traumatic incident for the victim and her
family.

"We have recovered the offending item and are appealing for anyone who saw the
incident, or any suspicious behaviour in the area at around 2.15pm on Monday, to
come forward."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 9, 2015 Thursday 4:58 PM GMT

Zimbabwe in talks to be first Test nation to tour to Pakistan since 2009
terrorist attack on Sri Lanka team bus

BYLINE: RIZWAN ALI, AP

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 213 words



     ·    Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Shaharyar Khan aiming for tour in May
     ·    Khan said Zimbabwe is close to agreeing to five ODI matches in
          Pakistan
     ·    Pakistan hasn't played a Test nation at home since 2009 terrorist
          attack


Zimbabwe could become the first test playing country to tour Pakistan since
gunmen attacked the Sri Lanka team bus in Lahore six years ago.

Shaharyar Khan, chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board, says Zimbabwe is willing
to tour Pakistan for five one-day international matches and he hopes the tour
will go ahead next month.

Khan will meet with officials of the Zimbabwe Cricket Union on the sidelines of
an ICC meeting in Dubai next week and says, 'I hope you will receive good news
very soon.'

No test playing nation has toured Pakistan due to security concerns since gunmen
attacked the bus carrying Sri Lankan cricketers as they travelled to Gaddafi
Stadium in Lahore in March 2009 for the third day of the second Test.

Six local policemen and two civilians were killed in the attack by 12 gunmen,
while seven players were injured, and Pakistan has been forced to play away
games elsewhere - namely the United Arab Emirates - ever since.

Khan says Lahore would host three one-day internationals against Zimbabwe while
the remaining two ODIs would be played in Karachi.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 9, 2015 Thursday 3:51 PM GMT

Author claims jihadist terror attack on major football stadium is 'inevitable';

Jordi Calvet, whose latest book features a terrorist attack during el clásico,
has tested security himself and claims it is nowhere near safe enough

BYLINE: By Ed Malyon

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,NEWS

LENGTH: 192 words


Spanish author Jordi Calvet has claimed that a terrorist attack at a major
football match is inevitable, stating security at stadia is too weak.

And the author went as far as to test the security at the Nou Camp while
researching for his book, smuggling in a metal device hidden in a sandwich.

"Everyone can see that, at a football stadium, security is too low," Calvet told
Spanish television channel EFE , before suggesting it would be impossible to
ever have high-security stadiums because people wouldn't be able "to get to
their seats in time."

"Jihadism has a strong presence," he added, "even though it goes ignored in much
of Europe."

Calvet, a Barcelona fan and former member of the club, has recently released a
novel, Allah's Sword, in which a jihadist gunman opens fire on Real Madrid
players as they celebrate a goal in el clásico. With fans streaming for the Nou
Camp exits, a lethal car-bomb is then detonated.

His book - the first of a trilogy - has thus far only been published in Catalan,
but is expected to be published in Spanish shortly.

In March, ISIS militants reportedly threatened to give 80 lashes to anybody
found watching el clásico.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

GUILTY BOSTON BOMB FANATIC FACES DEATH;
MARATHON ATTACK VERDICT ; Jury to decide if terrorist, 21, will be executed

BYLINE: SAM CHRISTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 325 words


BOSTON Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is facing the death penalty after being
convicted.

The Muslim fanatic, 21, stood with his head bowed and hands clasped as he was
found guilty yesterday of the bloodiest terror attack on American soil since
9/11.

Survivors, including the parents of Martin Richard - at age eight the youngest
of the three killed - were in court to see the outcome.

The jury will now decide whether Chechen-born Dzhokhar, also convicted of
shooting dead a cop, will get life in jail or be put to death, the first such
sentence in Massachusetts state since 1947.

He and brother Tamerlan, 26, planted home-made bombs in backpacks near the
crowded finish line.

'He had murder in his heart' Some 264 were hurt when the pressure cooker devices
designed to tear people apart exploded on April 15, 2013.

Assistant US Attorney William Weinreb described how the defendant and Tamerlan
carefully selected the places where they left the bombs.

He said the brothers, who moved to the US from wartorn Dagestan in southern
Russia, wanted to punish America for military action in Muslim countries.

Mr Weinreb said: "The defendant wasn't there to watch the race. He had a
backpack over his shoulder and inside that backpack was a homemade bomb.

"It was the type of bomb favoured by terrorists because it is designed to tear
people apart and create a bloody spectacle.

"He pretended to be a spectator but he had murder in his heart."

Dzhokhar's lawyers admitted he took part, but said Tamerlan was the brains. He
died four days later when shot by police and run over by Dzhokhar during a
getaway bid.

The killer, below, was found guilty of all 30 counts, including 17 that carry a
potential death penalty sentence. The jury will now hear arguments as to whether
Tsarnaev should be handed the death penalty or not.

Outside court, survivor Karen Brassard said the verdicts would not bring
"closure" because the attack was "forever part of our life".

@IRISHSUNONLINE

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chilling . . CCTV of bombers walking in crowdFinal moments . . Tsarnaev
& backpack, circled in red, behind victim Martin circled in whiteAftermath . .
bomb site near finish lineSmoke ... scene just after bomb went off

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 9, 2015 Thursday 11:51 PM GMT

Isil hackers seize control of France's TV5Monde network in 'unprecedented'
attack;
TV5Monde still unable to broadcast anything but pre-recorded programmes on its
11 channels after "unprecedented" cyber attack as French government denounces
"act of terrorism"

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 578 words


Hackers claiming allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)on
Thursday seized control of TV5Monde, France 's international TV network,
knocking out its 11 channels, website and social media accounts in an attack the
government dubbed an "act of terrorism".

TV5Monde was still struggling to regain control of its channels on Thursday
morning, forced to broadcast only pre-recorded programmes after what its
director called an "unprecedented attack in the history of television" in which
its systems were "severely damaged". It was back to normal operations by 8pm on
Thursday night.

Yves Bigot, the network's chief, said he was shaken when a black screen appeared
across the entire network at around 10pm local time on Wednesday night.

"When we discovered the sense of the message appearing on our social media and
our websites, it both allowed us to understand what was happening and obviously
worried us," he told RTL radio.

At the same time, a group calling itself CyberCaliphate issued a message on the
website of TV5Monde, which broadcasts to 200 countries, stating: "I am IS" -
another term for Isil.

Technicians later pulled this down and posted an "under maintenance" sign.

The French government on Thursday denounced the cyberattack as an "act of
terrorism". Manuel Valls, the prime minister, said the cyber strike was an
"unacceptable attack on the freedom of information and expression".

Fleur Pellerin, the culture minister, said: "I offer all my support and
solidarity to the team at TV5Monde, victims of an obvious terrorist act."

She said she would convene a crisis meeting with "representatives from the
broadcast media and perhaps the written press" on Friday to look at ways of
preventing a repeat of such an attack.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said an investigation had been
launched into the channel hacking, adding:"We are facing determined terrorists
and we are determined to fight them."

The hackers posted documents on TV5Monde's Facebook page purporting to be the
identity cards and CVs of relatives of French soldiers involved in anti-Isil
operations, along with threats against the troops.

"Soldiers of France, stay away from the Islamic State! You have the chance to
save your families, take advantage of it," read one message. "The CyberCaliphate
continues its cyberjihad against the enemies of Islamic State," it went on.

TV5Monde was due to launch on Thursday a new channel dedicated to French "art de
vivre". Mr Bigot said he doubted the attack was timed to coincide with this at
it would have required weeks of preparation.

It occurred on the day that France's Senate published a report revealing that
almost half of European jihadists known to have travelled to territory held by
Isil are French. Some 1,500 French nationals are thought to have travelled to
the area.

France has moved to strengthen its cyber security in the wake of the January
terrorist attacks in Paris by gunmen claiming links to Isil and al-Qaida in
Yemen. Afterwards, the defence minister said hackers had targeted some 19,000
French websites.

Isil has claimed complex hackings before - a group with the same name hacked
Newsweek's Twitter feed in February- but this appears to be its most spectacular
act of cyber warfare to date.

When the attack was over Fleur Pellerin, the culture minister, warned other
French media to remain "vigilant", saying they could not rule out "similar
powerful attacks happening that are already planned".

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 9, 2015 Thursday 1:40 PM GMT

Isil hackers seize control of France's TV5Monde network in 'unprecedented'
attack;
TV5Monde still unable to broadcast anything but pre-recorded programmes on its
11 channels after "unprecedented" cyber attack as French government denounces
"act of terrorism"

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Hackers claiming allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)on
Thursday seized control of TV5Monde, France 's international TV network,
knocking out its 11 channels, website and social media accounts in an attack the
government dubbed an "act of terrorism".

TV5Monde was still struggling to regain control of its channels on Thursday
morning, forced to broadcast only pre-recorded programmes after what its
director called an "unprecedented attack in the history of television" in which
its systems were "severely damaged".

Yves Bigot, the network's chief, said he was shaken when a black screen appeared
across the entire network at around 10pm local time on Wednesday night.

"When we discovered the sense of the message appearing on our social media and
our websites, it both allowed us to understand what was happening and obviously
worried us," he told RTL radio.

At the same time, a group calling itself CyberCaliphate issued a message on the
website of TV5Monde, which broadcasts to 200 countries, stating: "I am IS" -
another term for Isil.

Technicians later pulled this down and posted an "under maintenance" sign.

The French government on Thursday denounced the cyberattack as an "act of
terrorism". Manuel Valls, the prime minister, said the cyber strike was an
"unacceptable attack on the freedom of information and expression".

Fleur Pellerin, the culture minister, said: "I offer all my support and
solidarity to the team at TV5Monde, victims of an obvious terrorist act."

She said she would convene a crisis meeting with "representatives from the
broadcast media and perhaps the written press" on Friday to look at ways of
preventing a repeat of such an attack.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said an investigation had been
launched into the channel hacking, adding:"We are facing determined terrorists
and we are determined to fight them."

The hackers posted documents on TV5Monde's Facebook page purporting to be the
identity cards and CVs of relatives of French soldiers involved in anti-Isil
operations, along with threats against the troops.

"Soldiers of France, stay away from the Islamic State! You have the chance to
save your families, take advantage of it," read one message. "The CyberCaliphate
continues its cyberjihad against the enemies of Islamic State," it went on.

TV5Monde was due to launch on Thursday a new channel dedicated to French "art de
vivre". Mr Bigot said he doubted the attack was timed to coincide with this at
it would have required weeks of preparation.

It occurred on the day that France's Senate published a report revealing that
almost half of European jihadists known to have travelled to territory held by
Isil are French. Some 1,500 French nationals are thought to have travelled to
the area.

France has moved to strengthen its cyber security in the wake of the January
terrorist attacks in Paris by gunmen claiming links to Isil and al-Qaida in
Yemen. Afterwards, the defence minister said hackers had targeted some 19,000
French websites.

Isil has claimed complex hackings before - a group with the same name hacked
Newsweek's Twitter feed in February- but this appears to be its most spectacular
act of cyber warfare to date.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 10, 2015 Friday

Budalangi MP Links Terrorist Attacks To Corruption

LENGTH: 95  words



HIGHLIGHT: Ababu Namwamba, MP of Budalangi, has highlighted the link between
terrorist attacks by Islamist militant group al-Shabaab and corruption in Kenya.



News: Budalangi MP Ababu Namwamba has highlighted the link between terrorist
attacks by Islamist militant group al-Shabaab and corruption in Kenya. Speaking
at a press conference on April 6, Namwamba said 'Corruption at our entry points
is to blame for the frequent terrorist attacks in Kenya. Most aliens gain access
into the country after getting national ID cards through the registration of
persons offices,' (The Star). Namwamba's comments come in the wake of the
Garissa University killings by al-Shabaab gunmen on April 2, which left 148 dead
and more than 70 injured.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 10, 2015 Friday 12:41 PM GMT

Mumbai 2008 terror attack mastermind Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi released from Pakistan
prison;
'I don't know where he will go now', his lawyer admits

BYLINE: Syed Raza Hassan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 390 words


The mastermind behind the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks in which 166 people were
killed has been released on bail, with his lawyer admitting - "I don't know
where he will go".

The freeing of Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi has been met with widespread outrage in
India.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has previously condemned the prospect of bail,
which comes months after India and Pakistan were engaged in their worst
cross-border violence in more than a decade in Kashmir.

"Lakhvi has been released and he is out of the jail now," his lawyer, Malik
Nasir Abbas, told Reuters. "I don't know where he will go now."

His release has prompted outrage on social media. "Dear Pakistani courts," read
one tweet. "Would it take Lakhvi to mow down children in a Peshawar school for
you to see him for the terrorist he is?"

India's Ministry for External Affairs said before the release that its concern
about Lakhvi had been made clear to Pakistan.

"The fact is that known terrorists not being effectively prosecuted constitutes
a real security threat for India and the world," an Indian ministry spokesman
said.

"This also erodes the value of assurances repeatedly conveyed to us with regard
to cross-border terrorism."

Read more: Execution of last surviving Mumbai terrorist celebratedPakistan puts
off Mumbai case for monthJudge orders arrest of imam who refused to condemn
Peshawar attack

A Pakistani court granted him bail on 18 December, claiming there was not enough
evidence to hold him but this ruling was overturned just hours afterwards when
the government issued a three-month detention order and promised to appeal the
decision.

The latest judicial ruling may prove highly uncomfortable for Pakistan's
government, who have promised a crackdown on militant activity in the wake of
the Peshawar school tragedy in December last year.

In pictures: Aftermath of Taliban massacre in Peshawar

The 2008 Mumbai attacks saw 166 dead after a four-day coordinated shooting and
bombing attack in the south Indian city.

At least 308 people were wounded in the widespread attacks, which were later
linked back to Pakistan after the only surviving attacker Ajmal Kasab confessed
under interrogation that the attacks were allegedly partially supported by the
Pakistani government's intelligence agency ISI.

Additional reporting by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 10, 2015 Friday 7:13 PM GMT

Fury in India as Pakistan releases mastermind of 2008 Mumbai terror attack on
bail to a hero's welcome

BYLINE: LYDIA WILLGRESS FOR MAILONLINE and AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 642 words



     ·    Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi allowed to leave Adiala Prison late on Thursday
     ·    His release was slammed with Indians calling it an 'insult' to the
          victims


The alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai terror attack which left 166 dead has
been released on bail, Pakistani officials revealed.

Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi was allowed to leave Adiala Prison in Rawalpindi late on
Thursday.

His release was slammed with Indians calling it an 'insult' to the victims of
the three-day onslaught, which was blamed on the banned Pakistani militant group
Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).

LeT's charitable wing, Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), confirmed Lakhvi's release.

A senior JuD official said: 'Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi has been released from jail.
He is free now and in a secure place. We can't say exactly where he is at the
moment for security reasons.'

Another official said Lakhvi would receive a hero's welcome when he arrived at
JuD headquarters.

It comes after nearly four months of wrangling over Lakhvi's detention after a
judge granted him bail in December, sparking an angry response from New Delhi.

Pakistan's government slapped Lakhvi with a series of detention orders but
judges repeatedly cancelled them.

On Thursday the Lahore High Court ordered his release, conditional on a two
million rupee (32,000 U.S. dollars or £22,000) bond.

India has long seethed at Pakistan's failure either to hand over or prosecute
those accused of planning and organising the Mumbai attacks.

A spokesman for India's home ministry, who asked not to be named, condemned
Lakhvi's release.

They said: 'This is a very disappointing announcement. An insult to the victims
of the 26/11 Mumbai attack. The global community should take serious note of
Pakistan's double-speak on terrorism.'

Pakistan foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasneem Aslam blamed India for delaying
the case.

A TERRORIST ATROCITY DUBBED MUMBAI'S 9/11

The horror of the Mumbai carnage played out on live television as commandos
battled around ten heavily armed gunmen, who arrived by sea on the evening of
November 26, 2008.

The gunmen carried out twelve coordinated shooting and bombing attacks lasting
four days, and killing 166 people.

They targeted guests at two five star hotels, a Jewish centre and commuters at
the city's main railway station.

It took the authorities three days to regain full control of the city. Nine of
the gunmen were killed.

She said: 'Inordinate delay in extending cooperation by India complicated the
case and weakened the prosecution.'

Lakhvi and six other suspects were charged in Pakistan - but their cases have
made little progress in five years.

Delhi has long accused Islamabad of prevaricating over the trials, while
Pakistan has alleged that India failed to give it crucial evidence.

Lakhvi's initial bail order in December prompted an angry response from Indian
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said it came as 'a shock to all those who
believe in humanity'.

Pakistani analyst Hasan Askari said he was at a loss to understand why the case
had not been resolved.

He said: 'The government must settle this case once for all and face the
international community.

'It's strange that this case has not been decided since 2009.'

New Delhi has long said there is evidence that 'official agencies' in Pakistan
were involved in plotting the attack.

Islamabad denies the charge but JuD, seen as a front for the militant LeT and
listed as a banned terror outfit by the United Nations, operates openly in the
country.

Pakistan has long been accused of playing a 'double game' with militants by
supporting groups it thinks it can use for its own strategic ends, particularly
in disputed Kashmir.

Pakistan and India both control part of Kashmir but claim the whole of the
territory and have fought two of their three wars over it since independence
from Britain in 1947.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 10, 2015 Friday 3:20 AM GMT

British ex-Guantanamo Bay detainee paid £1m compo held over new terror attack;
Former Leicester University pharmacy student Jamal "Tony" Kiyemba, 36, was
arrested in Uganda over his possible role in the killing of a top prosecutor

BYLINE: By Sam Relph

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


A British ex-Guantanamo Bay detainee paid £1 million compensation has been held
over a new terror attack.

Jamal "Tony" Kiyemba, 36, was arrested in Uganda over his possible role in the
killing of a top prosecutor.

The former pharmacy student, who was born in Uganda but grew up in London, was
arrested with the the help of US officials in the capital on Tuesday.

Prosecutor Joan Kagezi was shot dead on 30 March, a day before the trial of men
accused of involvement in bombings.

Kiyemba, who grew up in Britain, was freed without charge from Guantanamo Bay in
2006 and later received £1m compensation under a government scheme for former
detainees

He was returned to Uganda and imprisoned after former Home Secretary Charles
Clarke personally intervened to keep him out of Britain on "national security
grounds".

Kiyemba, whose mother, four brothers and sister all live in Britain, was
arrested in Pakistan in 2002 for alleged links with al-Qaeda, and later
transferred to the US detention centre in Cuba.

He claimed the Americans forced him, under torture, to confess to terrorist
activities, and that MI5 interrogated him repeatedly, quizzing him about British
terror suspects and the jailed clerics Abu Hamza and Abu Qatada.

Kiyemba was granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK when he left Uganda
following the death of his father in 1993 but never applied for British
citizenship.

"I may not be British according to some bit of paper but in reality I am a Brit
and always will be," he told human rights lawyer Clive Stafford Smith when he
was in Guantanamo.

"My doctor, my local mosque, my teens, my education, employment, friends, taxes,
home and above all else my family - it is all in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday

Latest terrorist attack spreads fear across northern Afghan city - TV

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 10 April

[Presenter] Esteemed viewers, now we have Rateb Nuri, Tolo News corresponded,
who travelled to Mazar-e Sharif city to report about yesterday's terrorist
attack. Peace on you Nuri, can I know how the attack took place and what was its
nature?

[Correspondent] Thanks Wahid. According to eyewitnesses a vehicle, Surf, with
tinted glass brought four terrorists to this area. The assailants got out of the
car in front of the appeal court. Now, you can see that the building is
destroyed. They attacked the appeal court. Initially they killed a security
guard at the door and then entered the building. The terrorist attack started at
1130 [local time] and continued until 0730. The security forces clashed with the
four terrorists and the attack left heavy casualties, including women, children,
military personnel and civilians.

[Presenter] Were local officials among the dead and wounded of this attack?

[Correspondent] Yes. It is reported that the incident has been unprecedented in
Mazar-e Sharif city over the past 14 or 15 years. This is the first terrorist
attack in such a large scale. Four terrorists entered the appeal court on an
official day. It left heavy civilian and military casualties. The chief of the
sixth police station was killed and the chief of the ninth police station
wounded in the attack. Also, the head of the appeal court was wounded and the
head of the Mazar-e Shari attorney-general's office was killed in the attack.
The spokesman for the police headquarters was wounded. Eighteen people,
including seven attorneys, were killed and 67 others, including six women and
one kid, wounded in the attack.

[Presenter] It is believed that local officials have a hand in such incidents.
Is this correct with this attack? Also, has anyone or a group claimed
responsibility for it?

[Correspondent] The Taleban group has claimed responsibility for this attack,
but nobody has so far confirmed that any local official has been involved in the
attack. Today, we tried to contact security officials to have further
information in this regard, but we did not succeed in it. What is worth
mentioning is this that the attack was very intensive and that the residents of
Mazar-e Sharif are in shock. The atmosphere was different today compared to the
past in the city. The people used to go to recreational places, but today we
visited several places and we saw the people did not go there like before.

[Presenter] Thanks Nur, Tolo Nes correspondent for reporting about yesterday's
attack in Mazar-e Sharif.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 10 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday

Syrian army "thwarts terrorists' attempt to attack a well"

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, SANA-Units of the army and armed forces on Saturday thwarted an
attempt by ISIS terrorists to attack a well near al-Sikhna town and destroyed
two of their dens in Deir Foul and al-Ghantou in the countryside of Homs central
province.

A military source told SANA that the army clashed with ISIS terrorists while
trying to launch an attack from different directions against al-Hifna well near
al-Sikhna town, 40 km to the northeast of Palmyra city.

The source added that scores of the terrorists were killed and others were
injured in the clashes and their vehicles and ammunition were destroyed.

Meanwhile, units of the army continued their operations against ISIS terrorists
in the eastern countryside of the province, killing and injuring scores of them
in the village of Rouhom on the administrative borders of Raqqa province,
according to the source.

The source added that units of the army and the armed forces carried out
concentrated operations against dens of the terrorist organizations in the
villages of Um Sahrij, southern al-Mushairfa, Rajm al-Ali, Salam Sharqi and Unq
al-Hawa in the eastern countryside of Homs, killing a number of terrorists and
destroying their arms and vehicles.

In Homs northern countryside, units of the army destroyed two dens of the
terrorists of Jabhat al-Nusra and the so-called Homs Legion and al-Farouq
Brigades in the villages of Deir Foul and al-Ghantou near al-Rastana

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1000 gmt 11 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday

Panic at Tanzanian institutions following rumours of terror attack

LENGTH: 1122 words


Text of report by Lusekelo Philemon, Amina Yahya and James Lanka entitled
"Terror threats send institutions into panic" published by Tanzanian newspaper
The Guardian website on 11 April

A rumour about an imminent threat of a multiple terror attack at various
institutions circulated on social media yesterday morning, causing widespread
panic.

The messages emanated among students and staff at the Institute of Accountancy
in Arusha (IAA) and resonated at the St Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT),
the Institute of Finance Management (IFM) and taken up by the social media
especially with employees and relatives of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company.

The various institutions had reportedly set their security equipment and alerts
to ensure whoever enters is thoroughly checked for security reasons.

The message circulated on different social media outlets urged the public to be
vigilant owing to a possible terror attack.

The circulated message claimed that four people in a Toyota Premio vehicle went
at the IAA on Thursday midnight armed with four submachine guns (SMGs), which
were seemingly hidden.

The four asked security guards to allow them get into the campus to see a female
student they said was their relative, but, the college security guards informed
the police, who came and arrest the suspect visitors.

Arusha Regional Police Commander [RPC] Liberatus Sabas dismissed the claims,
saying he was surprised by the message. "It is mischief done by unscrupulous
people who want to terrify people unnecessarily."

"Arusha residents need not worry, we are here for them," the RPC said, urging
the public to ignore all such rumours.

Arusha Regional Commissioner [RC] Felix Ntibenda also assured the public,
describing the rumours as absurd and baseless.

He maintained that Arusha was safe and his office in collaboration with the
regional security committee has intensified security in key places across the
city.

The RC also urged hotel owners to ensure that all security measures were in
place including putting in place relevant equipment for metal screening.

IAA public relations officer, Sarah Goroi also scoffed at the claims; saying the
message was meant to cause panic among the public, noting that college students
were busy with their classes as usual.

A student at the institute, Joseph Mwita attested: "We are not aware of the
source of the rumours; but what I see is that security has been intensified at
the college campus."

Gaston Leseiyo, the public relations officer with the Arusha Technical College
(ATC), confirmed that the college was aware of the threat and measures were put
in place just in case anything happened.

ATC is planning to install closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras across the
compound, including dining halls, hostels, classrooms and gates.

"Inspection is now mandatory for everyone getting into the college campus," the
official said.

Last week, nearly 150 students of Garissa University to the northeast of Kenya
were massacred by a band of terrorists belonging to the notorious Al-Shabab
group who invaded the campus.

St Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT) students were gripped by anxiety
after receiving an internal memorandum from the students' government, its
Ministry of Defence and Internal Affairs which cautioned them to carry Identity
Card (ID) inside and outside the campus as there are unconfirmed threats of
terrorist attacks in different regions, including Mwanza.

The statement issued to the university community aimed at ensuring security and
a conducive atmosphere at the university environment and the SAUT community at
large, students' government officials noted.

Fatma Mohamed Kimaro, a Bachelor of Science in Tourism and Hospitality
Management student at SAUT said that many students had moved away from the
campus for their safety after being threatened of being attacked by Al-Shabab.

"We decided to shift from the college campus yesterday at 20.30 p.m. and joined
our colleagues who have rented rooms off campus because we feel there is more
security out there than being in campus," she said.

Students had started to panic after seeing police roving around the campus, she
said, noting that many students were not able to go to classrooms to continue
with studies on fears of insecurity.

Efforts to contact the University Principal proved futile after being told by
head of department Daniel Massawe of the tourism and hospitality management
field that he was in class.

However, Massawe couldn't give more details on the matter, saying he wasn't the
right person for the matter.

SAUT students' organization president, Sogone Wambura said that he was concerned
that some students had fainted at that time, asking to be contacted later.
However, he couldn't be reached after calling him several times.

Acting RPC, Assistant Police Commissioner Japhet Lusingu of Mwanza told this
newspaper that police were sent to patrol various places in the hilly city
including the university location to ensure that the security situation is
stable.

"I am currently at Nyegezi bus stand but police officers seen at the university
campus were assigned to patrol to ensure the safety of the surroundings," he
said.

In Moshi, Regional Commissioner Leonidas Gama advised Moshi traders to be extra
careful with visitors from across the border as terror attacks were on red alert
level in the region.

Traders in the municipality on Thursday closed their shops from morning to
evening, compelling the RC to come to talk to them on the reasons for such
action. The Kilimanjaro RC who also chairs the regional security committee
explained that, all border regions are exposed to terrorists, which requires
that traders take extra care with business visitors from outside the country.

A suspect in the Garissa horror, Rashid Charles Mberesero is a former science
student at the University of Dodoma, reportedly hailing from Kilimanjaro
Region's Mwanga District. He had absconded from the campus a few months before
he turned up in the wake of the slaughter in another campus.

"I know that you (traders) are vital for our nation's economy...but my appeal to
you is to be extra careful with anyone from across the borders as we have a 'red
alert' on terrorism...." the RC emphasized.

The traders closed their shops on Thursday protesting the use of Electronic
Fiscal Devices (EFDs), accusing TRA in the region to have the increased taxes by
100 per cent.

RC Gama intoned in the meeting that the government in the region commends the
traders for their socio-economic activities, but urged them to help the regional
authorities in security precautions as they meet people from all sorts of
places, including nearby Tanzania and further afield.

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 11 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 11, 2015
                                 First Edition

Outrage as attack suspect is freed from prison;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Zarar Khan IN ISLAMABAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 191 words


The Pakistani suspected mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks was freed from a
jail near Islamabad yesterday following a court order to release him pending
trial, his lawyer said.

Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, said to be the operations chief for Lashkare-Taiba, the
organisation blamed for the 2008 attacks, was out of detention early on Friday
morning, said attorney Rizwan Abbasi.

A Pakistani court first ordered his release on 13 March, after Mr Abbasi claimed
Lakhvi was being unlawfully held. But he remained in detention amid pressure on
Pakistan to more actively confront Islamic militants. His release was ordered
again on Thursday, but Lakhvi still faces terrorism charges.

"This is a triumph for law and justice," Mr Abbasi said.

It is unclear if Lakhvi is banned from leaving Pakistan but Mr Abbasi said he
has to appear in court for his trial. His Pakistani passport was earlier
deposited with court authorities. Lakhvi, who was first granted bail last
December, is one of seven suspects on trial in Pakistan in connection with the
Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people. He was arrested in 2009 and had been in
detention since then, until Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 12, 2015 Sunday 1:00 PM GMT

Suspected mastermind of Mumbai terror attack released from Pakistan jail;
Lahore court rules that Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi's detention is 'unjustified' as
prosecutors failed to marshal case against him over attack that killed 166

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad, Jason Burke in Delhi and agency

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 851 words


The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai has walked
free from a Pakistani jail after detention orders against him were dropped.

The decision of Lahore's high court to release Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the
alleged military chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, was described as an
"insult to the victims" of the attack, in which 166 people were killed.

Delhi is frustrated by Pakistan's seven-year failure to successfully prosecute
any of those allegedly involved in sending a boatload of young suicide attackers
to India's financial capital.

Rizwan Abbasi, the lawyer acting for Lakhvi, confirmed his client had been
released from Adiala jail in Rawalpindi following the end of his "illegal
detention".

"Justice Anwar ul-Haq in his orders declared the detention unjustified and
ordered an immediate release of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from the jail," he said.

Pakistan's government had battled to keep Lakhvi behind bars since he was
granted bail by an anti-terrorism court in Islamabad on 18 December last year,
two days after a Taliban massacre of schoolchildren in Peshawar prompted the
government to make grand promises to crack down on terrorist groups.

The state, however, was only able to use "maintenance of public order"
legislation to hold him, because prosecutors have failed to marshal a case
against him.

A spokesman for India's interior ministry, who asked not to be named, criticised
Lakhvi's release, calling the court's decision "an insult to the victims of the
26/11 Mumbai attack".

"The global community should take serious note of Pakistan's double-speak on
terrorism," the spokesman added.

Abbasi said he would fight any other government attempts to keep Lakhvi locked
up.

"[For the] last four months, we have fought for justice against the government
decision to keep my client in illegal detention," he said. "If this is something
the government again wishes to do, we are ready to knock the door of the courts
once again."

India's interior minister, Rajnath Singh, said: "India wants talks with
Pakistan, but the present development is unfortunate and very disappointing."

The two countries have fought three major wars since gaining their independence
from Britain in 1947.

Relations looked set to improve last year after the newly elected Indian prime
minister, Narendra Modi, invited his counterpart to his inauguration, but they
deteriorated rapidly amid fierce exchanges of artillery fire and clashes along
the disputed border between the two south Asian states.

Earlier this week, in anticipation of the release, an Indian government
spokesman said that "known terrorists not being effectively prosecuted
constitutes a real security threat for India and the world".

Lakhvi was originally arrested in December 2008 following the gunmen's three-day
rampage in Mumbai's main railway station, five-star hotels and a cafe.

Lakhvi, known as "chacha Zaki" within LeT, is accused of personally directing
the 10 young attackers by phone from a safe house in Karachi.

Despite phone-tap and witness evidence, including the confession of the sole
surviving attacker, critics say a prosecution is unthinkable given the close
relationship Pakistan's military has had with LeT, a jihadi group established in
the early 1990s as an off-the-books force to help Pakistan prise the contested
region of Kashmir away from India.

Any prosecution, let alone extradition to India, could risk revealing any
ongoing ties between Pakistan's intelligence establishment and LeT.

Lakhvi is said to have had a relatively comfortable stay behind bars, enjoying
perks including a television and access to a mobile phone, as well as being able
to father a child.

Sourav Mishra, a 35-year-old Mumbai resident who was injured in the attacks of
2008, said he hoped to see the perpetrators prosecuted and jailed in Pakistan,
but understood that the neighbouring state "was in a lot of trouble right now
and that it would be very difficult for them to nail someone for a crime that
happened in India". "I was very pained because on that day my own country failed
to protect its citizens. There were attacks before and after [November 2008]. I
think now perhaps we are better protected, but Mumbai has faced so many attacks
you always feel vulnerable," said Mishra, who was in the famous Leopold's Cafe
when it was attacked by the gunmen.

India has repeatedly submitted its own evidence to Pakistani authorities.

Rehman featured in the testimony of David Headley, a US national of Pakistani
origin who joined LeT and carried out reconnaissance missions in Mumbai for the
26/11 attacks. Headley cooperated with US authorities after his arrest in 2009
and was eventually jailed in the US for 35 years. Headley was interviewed by
Indian investigators while in custody and spoke at length about his relationship
with Pakistani intelligence services.

Rehman was also mentioned repeatedly in the testimony of Ajmal Kasab, the sole
surviving gunman, who was convicted of terrorist charges and hanged in India in
2012. Kasab described Rehman handpicking the group of attackers and overseeing
their training.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 12, 2015 Sunday 9:10 PM GMT

'It's way too soon': Mother whose two sons lost legs in Boston Marathon
terrorist attack blasts Mark Wahlberg's plans to turn atrocity into a movie

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words



     ·    Liz Norden, whose sons Paul and JP each lost right leg, blasted plan
     ·    Said victims and families of 2013 bombing are still faced with daily
          pain
     ·    Boston-born Wahlberg announced film during trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
     ·    Other Bostonians weighed in on the planned dramatization


A mother whose two sons were mutilated by Boston bombers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan
Tsarnaev has said it is 'way too soon' for Mark Wahlberg to be turning the
atrocity that maimed her family into a movie.

Liz Norden's adult sons, JP and Paul, each lost their right leg when they were
hit by the explosive mix of shrapnel and ball-bearings unleashing by the
Tsarnaevs' primitive explosives in April 2013.

The men, now in their mid-thirties, were received horrific wounds as they
shielded friends from the second of two blasts which went off by the finish line
at the Boston Marathon almost two years ago.

In response to the news that Boston-born celebrity Wahlberg is teaming up with
CBS to make a feature film from the most harrowing day of her life, Norden
pointed out that for many the pain is still visceral and real.

She said: 'I don't think that could ever be re-created. I've sat in the
courtroom with survivors and family members and seen what everybody is going
through.

'It's been two years... but people who live it day in and day out, their lives
are just coming back somewhat.

'For people dealing with putting legs on every day or people who lost loved
ones, that doesn't go away.'

JP and Paul, who both use prosthetic legs, now help run a charity alongside
their mother dedicated to helping fellow amputees.

At a recent fundraiser covered by local station  WCVB, JP said he has now
recovered enough to live a relatively normal life.

He said: 'I'm starting to work and doing things as usual - I'm getting married
in October. So I'm great.'

However, the victims of the attack still contend daily with the toll taken on
their lives by the fanatical brothers.

Tamerlan, the elder Tsarnaev, was killed in a firefight not long after the
attack.

Dzhokhar was captured, and last week was convicted of all 30 charges leveled
against him in connection with the bombing.

More than half of those charges can be punished by death, and he is due to be
sentenced in the coming weeks.

JP and Paul have both declined to say whether they think Tsarnaev should be put
to death, though their mother has said that he should be.

Wahlberg announced his film, which will be called Patriot's Day, in the middle
of the highly-publicized trial.

CBS Films said the movie will be based on a firsthand account from former Boston
Police Commissioner Ed Davis of the investigation and massive manhunt for the
Tsarnaevs.

After the announcements other Boston residents weighed in. Eileen McNamara, a
former Boston Globe columnist, said: 'How does someone who markets himself as "a
Boston guy" not see that it is far too soon, that the city is still far too sad
for its trauma to be transformed into mass entertainment?'

Charlie Wilder of Boston.com also weighed in, saying: 'The trial has served as
almost a movie of the events itself, making the concurrent announcement of a
fictionalized portrayal feel unnecessary and inappropriate.

'Maybe one day, even someday relatively soon after the trial, turning the events
into a film worthy of the story would help the healing and honor the lives of
those affected.

'But for now, Wahlberg - who plays up his Boston roots whenever he gets the
chance - picked the wrong time to break the news.'

Wahlberg's representatives did not return calls and emails seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

Mideast Arabic press highlights Egypt's "terrorist" attacks, army reshuffle

LENGTH: 525 words


Several Middle East Arabic papers focus on 13 April on the previous day's
attacks that targeted army and police forces in Egypt's North Sinai province and
the simultaneous reshuffle of top military officials.

Papers lament the attack, saying it was a "day of blood".

The two attacks were reportedly carried out by Sinai Province organization,
which is affiliated to the Islamic State militant group.

The army reshuffle included chief of military intelligence as well as commanders
of the Naval Forces and Second Field Army.

"Terrorism strikes again"

The attacks almost exclusively dominate Egyptian papers' front pages.

The banner headlines of private, pro-President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi Al-Misri
al-Yawm and Al-Yawm al-Sabi and state-run Al-Akhbar read: "Day of blood in
Sinai."

Al-Yawm al-Sabi comments: "Terrorist groups continue their attacks on public
facilities and police stations in Sinai."

The headline of state-run Al-Ahram says: "Desperate terrorist attacks in Sinai."

For its part, Pro-Sisi Al-Watan says: "Terrorism strikes again in Sinai.
Thirteen officers and conscripts were martyred and scores were injured."

Meanwhile, private pan-Arab, leftist Al-Tahrir, which lately adopts a tone
critical of the government and President Al-Sisi, says: "Terrorism receives army
reshuffle with two bombings in Sinai."

Keeping the focus on Egypt, Saudi centrist Ukaz headlines: "Terrorism kills 12
police and army personnel in Sinai."

Likewise, Kuwaiti pro-government Al-Siyasah says: "Da'ish [Islamic State] kills
10 security and army troops in North Sinai."

Jordanian pan-Arab Al-Arab al-Yawm comments: "Thirteen army and police troops
were killed in a wave of violence in North Sinai, in which hardliner Islamists
are active."

Some Tunisian and Algerian dailies tackle the story factually.

"Army personnel killed in Sinai bombings," reads a headline of the Tunisian
partially government-owned Assabah.

Army reshuffle

Egypt state-run Al-Jumhuriyah says in a red-lettered font above the masthead:
"Exceptional reshuffle in armed forces commanders."

Al-Yawm al-Sabi quotes an "informed source" as saying: "The reshuffle comes in
the light of the efforts to combat terrorism and besiege extremist groups in
North Sinai. The changes aim to inject new blood from field operations [into the
command of the armed forces]."

Along the same lines, Al-Misri al-Yawm says "the armed forces renew their blood
through reshuffle".

Meanwhile, Al-Ahram quotes a military official as saying that "the reshuffle
comes as part of the periodic changes of army commanders".

Lebanese pan-Arab leftist Al-Safir describes the reshuffle as "limited".

Jordanian pro-monarchy al-Dustur explains: "The reshuffle was announced as
Egyptian government is facing recurrent operations by Sinai Province
organization, which had pledged allegiance to Islamic State."

Kuwaiti centrist Al-Qabas praises the move. "The reshuffle aims to renew the
blood of army and security commanders in Egypt. It responds to the current
political and military conditions and it is consistent with the presidency's
line of thought," says the paper.

Source: Middle East Arabic press review from BBC Monitoring in Arabic 13 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

Morocco strongly condemns "terrorist attack" on its embassy in Libya

LENGTH: 234 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 13 April: Morocco strongly condemned the terrorist attack targeting its
embassy in Tripoli and called on Libyan authorities to open an investigation to
determine the circumstances of such criminal aggression.

The Kingdom of Morocco expressed "deep concern and firm condemnation of this
terrorist act that represents a blatant violation of international law and
diplomatic norms relating to respecting and guaranteeing the inviolability of
diplomatic missions", the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

Following this attack, Morocco "calls on the Libyan authorities to conduct an
inquiry in order to determine the circumstances of this cowardly criminal attack
and its perpetrators", the statement added.

In the statement, Morocco reiterated its solidarity with Libya in this
transition period and reaffirmed support to political dialogue under the
auspices of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) between the
Libyan political stakeholders in order to achieve the Libyan people's
aspirations to stability, peace and prosperity.

The main gate of the Moroccan embassy in Tripoli was targeted early on Monday
[13 April] by a bomb attack that exploded without claiming victims but left
material damage in neighbouring buildings.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1040 gmt 13 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

Police Arrest 17 On Suspicion Of Plotting Terror Attacks

LENGTH: 95  words



HIGHLIGHT: Malaysian police arrested 17 suspects on April 5 over their alleged
plotting of a terrorist attacks in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, according
to Police Chief Khalid Abu Baker on April 7


News: Malaysian police arrested 17 suspects on April 5 over their alleged
plotting of terrorist attacks in Kuala Lumpur, according to Police Chief Khalid
Abu Baker on April 7. The suspects - affiliated with the Islamic State (IS) -
had planned to raid Malaysian army camps and police stations to seize weapons in
order to attack strategic locations in the capital, stated the police official.
They had also planned kidnappings and a bank robbery. 'The purpose of this new
terrorist group is to establish an Islamic country a la IS in Malaysia,' said
Abu Baker (Reuters).

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

11 Killed In North Sinai Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 111  words



HIGHLIGHT: A mortar launched by terrorists that hit a house in the residential
town of Sheikh Zuweid in northern Sinai, Egypt, on April 8, left at least 11
civilians dead, according to officials


News: A mortar launched by terrorists that hit a house in the residential town
of Sheikh Zuweid in northern Sinai, Egypt, on April 8, left at least 11
civilians dead, according to officials. The intended target of the attack was
reportedly an unidentified military position in the neighbouring town of
al-Zahira. Six people were also injured in the attack. In another incident on
the same date, a Sinai security patrol was bombed, claiming the lives of two
Egyptian policemen and injuring three police recruits, according to the interior
ministry. Security forces are diligently working to catch the terrorists
responsible for the attacks, stated the ministry (EFE).

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       April 13, 2015 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Student dies in blast panic: Explosion in Kenya feared to be terror attack

LENGTH: 124 words


A STUDENT died and more than 140 others were injured as they fled an electrical
explosion fearing their campus in Kenya was under attack.

REUTERS

A cable overloaded causing chaos at the University of Nairobi

Many jumped from windows at the University of Nairobi or rushed out in a
stampede just over a week after Islamist gunmen killed 148 students at Garissa,
north-east Kenya.

Three loud blasts were heard early yesterday, plunging a dormitory into
darkness, which heightened the panic.

Kenya Power blamed a cable overloading.

Related articles 11 dead as train hits bus in Kenya Britons flee Kenya as 10 die
in terror blasts in Nairobi Kenyan bomber planes hit terror camps in revenge for
university massacre of 150 Kenya revenge raid for massacre

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2015 Tuesday

Ugandan police foil attempted "terror" attack on university

LENGTH: 353 words


Text of report by Farahani Mukisa and Eseri Watsemwa entitled "Terror suspect
held after foiled attack on Busitema" published by leading privately-owned
Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 14 April

Kampala: The police have foiled an attempted terror attack on Busitema
University that was planned by a suspected Al-Shabab devotee operating in the
country.

Police spokesperson Fred Enanga said the suspect of Somali origin offered an
open booty amount of money to one of the students at the institution to execute
his mission.

"To know that these threats [terror threats] are real, last week, one student at
Busitema University was approached by one Abdul Karim of Somali origin who
offered him [student] any amount of money he needed in order to execute a terror
attack on the university," Mr Enanga said at a weekly police press briefing in
Kampala on Monday [13 April].

"We arrested the suspect and this is how real such threats are continuing to
materialize. We recently warned a number of education institutions and we want
to reinforce our voice to the public to continue being on the outlook of
suspicious persons," he added.

The development comes barely two weeks after more than 148 students were killed
and hundreds left battling severe injuries after an attack at Garissa University
College in Kenya by Al-Shabab terrorists.

Mr Enanga said the public should not ignore the issued police terror alerts
since there are people who are still determined and interested in inflicting
acts of terror on Uganda.

Recently, police said terrorists were planning to carry out an attack on some of
the education institutions on Jinja-Kampala highway. Security has been beefed up
since the issuance of the terror alerts.

Mr Enanga said police have recovered eight unregistered machine guns from thugs
operating and terrorising different communities countrywide.

He said the force had also seized two gun butts from thugs who have been
operating on the Jinja-Kampala highway. Mr Enanga said they recovered two SMG
machine guns at the Uganda-DRCongo border post.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 14 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2015 Tuesday

Egypt's premier says attacks on power pylons "heinous terrorist crimes"

LENGTH: 250 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 14 April: Prime Minister Ibrahim Mahlab said that some people are seeking
to disturb the political scene in Egypt through heinous terrorist crimes.

But such attempts will never stop the government from completing the future
roadmap, the prime minister said Tuesday [14 April] as he inspected the two
power pylons that were attacked Monday night in 6th of October City [in Giza
province, west of Cairo].

The two electricity towers feed Egypt's Media Production City.

Mahlab was accompanied by Interior Minister Majdi Abd-al-Ghaffar.

"If terrorists insist on destroying the country, we insist on building and
completing the road map," Mahlab said.

Work will continue around the clock to fix the damage caused to the towers, he
promised.

Egypt is on the right track, Mahlab said, adding that "I came to the explosion
site today to send a message of hope and assurance that Egypt is capable of
facing difficulties and challenges."

He talked about "daily successes", insisting everything is going on fine after
the successful Egypt Economic Development Conference (EEDC).

Amendments are currently being made to the elections law and will be over very
soon, Mahlab said.

Abd-al-Ghaffar said that a small group is behind attacks, like that targeting
the electricity towers.

Police troops are everywhere, he assured.

Development efforts will continue in the face of all crimes, the minister
stressed.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1423gmt 14 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2015 Tuesday

Six civilians injured in terrorist mortar attack in Syrian capital

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA - Six civilians were injured on Tuesday [14 April] in a terrorist
mortar attack which targeted al-Hal market in al-Zablatani area in Damascus.

A source at the police command told SANA that terrorists fired two mortar shells
that fell on the area surrounding al-Hal market in al-Zablatani area in east
Damascus, inflicting injuries of varying severity on six civilians.

The source added that the attacks also caused material damages to one of the
cars parked in the area.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1540 gmt 14 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       April 14, 2015 Tuesday 4:26 PM GMT

10 killed in Somali terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 218 words


Ten people have been killed in an assault on a government office complex in the
Somali capital and seven attackers were also killed, according to a government
spokesman.

Eight civilians and two soldiers were killed in the attack in Mogadishu, said
spokesman Ridwan Haji Abdiweli.

Police secured the Ministry of Higher Education office complex, said police
spokesman Captain Mohamed Hussein.

The attackers stormed the education ministry's offices after a suicide car
bomber detonated his vehicle at the gate of the complex, opening the way for
gunmen to enter, said Capt Hussein.

The assault on the walled compound, which also houses other government
ministries, is the latest attack by suspected Islamic extremists of al-Shabab,
who are maintaining a series of attacks in the capital on government targets and
the African Union forces who are supporting the government.

Smoke could be seen rising over the compound.

Security forces rushed to the scene and ambulances ferried wounded victims to
hospital.

This was not the first al-Shabab attack on the government's education ministry.
A suicide car bomber detonated a truck at the offices in 2011, killing at least
70 people, mostly students applying for scholarships to study in Turkey.

Al-Shabab often accuses the ministry of westernising Somalia's education system.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      April 14, 2015 Tuesday 12:07 PM GMT

Junior footballer kept place in team after wife-beating conviction despite club
backing domestic violence campaign;
MICHAEL Hart of Kilwinning Rangers was jailed for 14 months for terrorising
Naomi, 36, in their home then attacking a neighbour with a baseball bat.

BYLINE: By Norman Silvester

SECTION: NEWS,CRIME

LENGTH: 455 words


A JUNIOR football star kept his place in the team after being convicted of
abusing his wife - despite his club publicly backing a campaign against domestic
violence.

Michael Hart, 34, was jailed for 14 months for terrorising Naomi, 36, in their
home then attacking a neighbour with a baseball bat.

But after he was charged - and even after he admitted his guilt in court - he
was allowed to turn out for Kilwinning Rangers .

The club - nicknamed the Buffs - are one of 10 Ayrshire outfits who signed up to
an anti-domestic violence initiative by campaign group White Ribbon.

But Kilwinning only stopped playing star striker Hart after he was jailed 10
days ago.

He appeared at Kilmarnock Sheriff Court in January and admitted threatening
Naomi at their home in West Kilbride, Ayrshire.

Naomi and Hart had been married for nine years and had two children but violence
erupted after he learned she had a relationship with neighbour Billy McCallie 20
years ago.

Hart then smashed up the house with a baseball bat, used threatening and abusive
behaviour towards Naomi and refused her demands to leave.

He later ran out of the house and attacked Billy, 45, in his garden, hitting him
repeatedly with the bat.

Landscape gardener Billy was badly injured in the attack, suffering broken ribs,
a fractured finger and shoulder damage and spent three days in hospital.

Sentence was originally deferred until April 2 and Hart was freed on bail,
allowing him to continue playing for the Buffs.

Days after he admitted the charges, he turned out for Kilwinning in a 9-1
drubbing of Muirkirk.

He also featured in a penalty shoot-out win against local rivals Darvel on March
28, just days before he was jailed.

Hart played professionally for Morton for five years before turning part-time.
He also worked as an HGV driver for a local abattoir.

Sheriff Alistair Watson told Hart jail was his only option due to the "nature
and gravity of the offence".

Hart had a previous conviction involving domestic abuse in 2012 and the court
was told his marriage was now over.

Naomi could not be contacted but her dad Alistair, said: "I do not think she
will want to say anything about this."

White Ribbon said they could not comment on individual cases. But a spokesman
added: "The level of domestic abuse in Scotland is incredibly high and is
something that needs addressed.

"In that respect it is important to have positive role models, particularly if
they are playing in sports teams and in the public eye."

Kilwinning Rangers' manager Chris Strain said: "It has been dealt with by the
courts and we have no comment to make."

Hart has told the club he will not be returning to play for them after he is
freed from prison.

Try our quick news quiz below:

Quick Quiz: News 13/4/2015

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 14, 2015 Tuesday 12:50 PM GMT

Masked gunmen raid Aldi and threaten terrified shoppers who 'thought it was
terrorist attack';
Three masked men entered the store in Kingstanding, Birmingham, at around 9pm
last night, threatening staff and customers with pistols and a 'shotgun'

BYLINE: By Ian Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


A gang of masked gunmen staged a terrifying late night raid on an Aldi
supermarket, armed with pistols and a shotgun.

Shoppers screamed in fear as three men ran into the store, shepherding them to
its rear and warning them not to use their phones.

Kamras Khan, who was shopping at the time, said he had a gun pointed in his face
- and thought it was a terrorist attack.

He told the Birmingham Mail: "I was in the grocery section and my son was in
another aisle when they came inside.

"Two of them had pistols and another had a shotgun. I thought it was a terrorist
attack at first and I asked one of the raiders what was going on.

"He pushed a gun into my stomach and told me to line up against a wall.

Aldi raid - Tweet video

"I was more concerned for the safety of my son who was in another aisle.

"One of the robbers was pointing a gun at him so I was petrified. But he was
very brave."

Mr Khan said he hid behind a line of other customers and phoned the police while
the raiders were distracted.

There were around 10 people inside the Kingstanding store at the time of the
raid, and according reports one worker had a gun held to her back.

Mr Khan added: "The gang took the store manager and another member of staff to
an office.

"They were in there for some time."

West Midlands Police say three men, with their faces covered, went into the
store around 9pm, one armed with a weapon described as either a rifle or
shotgun.

They threatened staff and customers and tried to force the store manager to open
the safe, but left without stealing any cash.

The offenders then escaped in a black vehicle, described as a new-style
hatchback, possibly a Vauxhall Astra or a Ford Focus, which drove off towards
Birmingham.

Det Insp Tom Hadley said: "Police investigations into the attempted robbery are
on-going.

"There were about ten customers in the store when the robbery took place, who
were ushered into a corner.

"The thieves escaped without cash but they did take a mobile phone from a
customer.

"We know three offenders, described as being black men went into the store, a
fourth man was waiting in the car.

"Officers are this morning continuing to make enquiries at the scene and will be
studying CCTV."

The store is open as usual now but Aldi has not yet commented on the incident.

Police are appealing for any witnesses or anyone with information to contact the
Acquisitive Crime Team at Sutton Coldfield on 101 or call Crimestoppers,
confidentially on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

(Corr)Egypt's premier slams "terrorist" attack against military college students

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

(Reissuing item to attach correct file)

Cairo, 15 April: Prime Minister Ibrahim Mahlab said he posted President
Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi on the parliamentary election bill in its final form in
preparation for referring it to the cabinet on Wednesday [15 April].

In statements, Mahlab called on all Egyptians to stand shoulder to shoulder to
face terrorism which knows no boundaries or religion.

He slammed the attack which targeted military college students in Kafr al-Shaykh
[north of Cairo], pointing out that such terrorism will not intimidate the
Egyptians.

The prime minister described the bombing of the power pylons that feed the media
production city in 6 of October city late Monday night as despicable.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1321gmt 15 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt's premier slams "terrorist" attack against military college students

LENGTH: 10 words


Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1321gmt 15 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I feared armed raid was terrorist attack

BYLINE: Catherine Lillington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words


AN Aldi supermarket shopper caught up in a terrifying raid on the store told how
he feared he had been caught up in a terrorist attack as a gun was pointed in
his schoolboy son's face.

Kamras Khan was one of ten customers caught in the siege in Kingstanding at 9pm
on Monday.

Three men armed with guns burst into the supermarket on College Road and forced
shoppers to line up against a wall.

"Two of them had pistols and another had a shotgun," Mr Khan told the Birmingham
Mail.

"I thought it was a terrorist attack at first, and I asked one of the raiders
what was going on.

"He pushed a gun into my stomach and told me to line up against a wall.

"I was more concerned for the safety of my 13-year-old son, who was in another
aisle at the time.

"One of the robbers was pointing a gun at him so I was petrified.

"But he was very brave. "The gang took the store manager and another member of
staff to an office.

"They were in there for some time and the robber came out with several bags so
they must have got away with lots of money."

Police said the raiders did not get any cash.

Detective Inspector Tom Hadley, from Sutton Coldfield, said: "Police
investigations into the attempted robbery are ongoing.

"There were about ten customers in the store when the robbery took place, who
were ushered into a corner.

"The thieves escaped without cash but they did take a mobile phone from a
customer.

"We know that three offenders, described as being black men, went into the
store, while a fourth man was waiting in the car. Officers are continuing to
make inquiries at the scene and will be studying CCTV footage."

Despite the drama, the store was open as normal yesterday.

An Aldi spokesman said: "We are understandably very concerned by the incident at
the Kingstanding store last night and the wellbeing of our staff and customers
is our number one priority.

"Aldi is cooperating fully with West Midlands Police and it would not be
appropriate to comment any further while the police investigation is underway."

Police are appealing for any witnesses or anyone with information to contact the
Acquisitive Crime Team at Sutton Coldfield on 101.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed raiders struck at the Aldi store on College Road in Kingstanding
¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

'I thought he was going to attack me' - Farnworth woman's terror as she scares
off flasher by spraying de-icer in his face

BYLINE: Jeremy Culley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


A TERRIFED woman who chased off a flasher by spraying him in the face with
de-icer says she was convinced he would attack her.

The unsuspecting woman was de-icing her car close to her home in Plodder Lane,
Farnworth, on Monday morning ahead of her commute to work.

She was shocked when a man sneaked up behind to within inches of her and asked:
"Do you want a bit of this, love?"

When she turned turning round she realised he had exposed himself.

She told him to leave, to which he replied "I know you want it", before moving
towards her.

The plucky victim, still holding the can of de-icer, then turned it on the man,
spraying him in the eyes.

Speaking to The Bolton News, she has told how instinct kicked in after the man
approached at 5.45am and hopes he is "shocked" into never repeating his actions.

After spraying him once, he reacted angrily and again moved towards her,
prompting the woman, aged in her late 30s, to continue spraying the canister.

Eventually she chased him off and got into her car, locking the doors, before
driving round the area looking for him, in case he tried to do it someone else.
Her search was unsuccessful.

The victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said: "It is a bit surreal
really. I can't believe that I did it.

"I always thought that if something like this happened I would freeze and not
know what to do.

"I go out there every morning. Maybe I have got a bit complacent.

"I did not even hear him or his footsteps behind me.

"That is what really scared me and I was just so shocked.

"After I sprayed it the first time I think he was angry and I thought he was
going to attack me."

Police attended to take a statement from the victim and are now on the hunt for
the attacker, who was nowhere to be found by the time officers arrived.

They are concerned, given the very early time of the incident, that the man may
be targeting women who are alone in the morning and could strike again.

The man was white, in his 30s, slim and about 5ft 7in tall with long, unkempt
brown hair.

He was wearing a dark tracksuit and dark jacket and the victim said she thought
the man looked gaunt and may well have been a drugs user.

On her intervention, she said: "I would do the same again. Maybe this will be a
shock for him and stop him doing it to somebody else.

"I would not want anybody to be in that position.

"People have said well done but I just acted on instinct.

"Going to work on Tuesday morning, I felt a bit funny.

"But I should not let him scare me and I was annoyed that he made me feel like
that. This won't keep me down."

No CCTV captured the incident and police are eager to speak with anyone who
could help them identify the man.

Sgt Steve Malone, from Bolton South neighbourhood policing team, said: "This was
a distressing ordeal for this woman to go through as she was simply trying to
set out on her morning commute.

"On this occasion, she reacted quickly and came off better, but that might not
be the case if this man tries something similar again.

"People should be extra vigilant and if they see anybody matching this man's
description, please get in touch with us straight away."

Anyone with information can contact police on 0161 8565619 or Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 15, 2015 Wednesday 7:21 PM GMT

Eta militant Antonio Troitino loses Spanish extradition fight;
Troitiño was convicted in Spain of carrying out a spate of terrorist attacks in
the 1980s,

BYLINE: Alistair Dawber

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 529 words


One of Eta's most notorious militants is to be extradited back to Spain from the
UK - after spending the last three years in Britain denying claims that he has
rejoined the Basque separatist group.

Sitting at Westminster magistrates' court, judge Howard Riddle said that Antonio
Troitiño, a former leading figure in the Madrid branch of Eta, would receive a
fair trial in the Spanish capital.

Troitiño was convicted in Spain of carrying out a spate of terrorist attacks in
the 1980s, including the 1986 bombing of a bus carrying members of the Guardia
Civil which left 12 policemen dead and dozens injured.

In all, Troitiño was convicted of 22 murders and in 1987 was sentenced to a
total of 2,746 years in prison. But he was mistakenly freed in 2011, when a
Spanish judge incorrectly interpreted a law that meant that multiple sentences
would be served concurrently, rather than consecutively, as had been intended
when he first went to prison.

World News in Pictures

The law - known as the Parot rule after another Eta militant, Henri Parot who
was sentenced 4,800 years in prison - also provided for maximum sentences of 30
years.

Troitiño had only spent 24 years behind bars, and fled Spain for the UK before
an arrest warrant was issued for his rearrest.

Antonio Troitiño Arranz and Ignacio Leron Sanchez held in London in 2012Spain
ordered to release Basque ETA terrorist by European court

He was first arrested in London in 2012, and has been arguing against
extradition - while out on bail - ever since. Speaking at the hearing on
Tuesday, Judge Riddle said that he saw "no international material has been put
before me to demonstrate that Spain fails to live up to its fair-trial
obligations in terrorism cases or otherwise".

The court also rejected a submission by Troitiño's barrister, Mark Summers QC,
that the case had a political motivation on the part of the Spanish government.

"Many of those convicted in the 1980s are now coming up for release, and this
case and others are used by victims' groups and by some politicians for their
own purposes," Alastair Lyon, his solicitor, told The Independent.

"Nobody really believes he is hoping to rejoin Eta - it seems more likely that
the case is part of a desperate desire to appease a certain section of the
Spanish public."  Mr Lyon also said that an appeal against the extradition had
already been lodged. Troitiño was a prolific and deadly member of Eta in the
1980s. His first murder, perpetrated when he was 26 years old, was of a butcher
in the Basque town on Irun.

He was soon targeting more prominent individuals and two years later killed a
colonel in the Spanish army, along with two other officials.

In 1986, he made an attempt on the life of the then Spanish Attorney-General,
Luis Antonio Buron Beard.

In 2011, Eta said that a ceasefire announced the previous year would be
permanent. Despite the scepticism of many in Spain, especially among many in the
governing centre-right People's Party, this latest cessation has held.

Eta has not carried out a deadly attack in Spain since 2009, but is also said to
be frustrated at the slow pace of political reform that would allow for greater
autonomy in the Basque country.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday

(Corr) Three "terrorists" in Kenya Garissa attack reportedly of Nubian origin

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report by Fred Mukinda entitled "Police reveal terrorists' homes"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 16 April

[Correcting headline for clarity]

Three of the terrorists who murdered 142 students at Garissa University College
two weeks ago were from Mombasa [coastal region] and Bungoma [western Kenya]
counties, intelligence reports have revealed.

Their identities will be confirmed once their fingerprints are matched with
those in a database at the registration bureau.

The terrorists were killed by General Service Unit commandos, alongside Mohammed
Abdirahim Abdullahi, a former University of Nairobi law student who led the
attack.

A source privy to the intelligence reports said the terrorists are of Nubian
origin.

Three police officers who were stationed at the college when the attack occurred
have given their statements. A fourth officer, Administration Police Constable
Peter Masinde, was among the first people to be gunned down.

According to the officers, the terrorists first killed security guards and then
made their way into the compound.

According to their statements, the terrorists engaged police in a gunfight. The
officers called for reinforcement.

According to an intelligence briefing, undercover officers in Mombasa and
Bungoma have been trying to trace the terrorists' homes. By Monday [13 April]
they had not established them yet.

The law student was the son of the chief of Bulla Jamhuri location in Mandera
County Abdullahi Daqare. He was Nicknamed Ababmo by his classmates at the Law
Faculty on the Parklands Campus in Nairobi. His peers said he was a sharp
dresser.

Mr Abdullahi had a room on campus but preferred operating from Eastleigh, where
he run a business.

Meanwhile, police plan to interrogate some students from the university
following claims that the terrorists kept their ammunition in one of the rooms.

Among the suspects arrested are Mr Mohammud Adan Surrow, a hotel owner in
Garissa Town, where the terrorists spent a night, Mr Osman Abdi Dakane, a
security guard at the university, Mr Mohammed Abid Abikar, Mr Hassan Adan
Hassan, Mr Sahal Diriye Hassan, who were intercepted as they tried to cross into
Somalia. A Tanzanian, Mr Rashid Charles Mberesero, was also seized.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 16 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks hit Eurostar revenue

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words


EUROSTAR ticket sales at the start of the year fell because of a lorry fire in
the Channel Tunnel and terrorist attacks in Paris in January, the highspeed rail
company has announced. Sales revenue was down 6 per cent to £215 million in the
first quarter of the year but passenger numbers were comparable to the same
period last year. The Charlie Hebdo terrorist attacks were over January 7-9,
while the lorry fire on January 17 shut the tunnel for several hours. But
Eurostar still carried 2.3 million passengers, with business travellers
increasing 7 per cent, and it said it hopes for "a busy summer period".

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      April 16, 2015 Thursday 12:22 PM GMT

Eurostar passenger numbers 'fell due to Paris terror attacks'

BYLINE: Lana Clements

LENGTH: 279 words


THE Paris terror attacks impacted Eurostar passenger numbers in the first three
months of this year, the company reported today.

PA Wire/Press Association Images

The Paris terror attacks in January impacted eurostar

A Channel Tunnel fire in January that caused major disruption as well as
movements in currency exchange rates also affected performance, said the
high-speed rail company.

Sterling reached a seven-year high of (EURO)1.37 earlier this year.

As a result, sales revenue was down six per cent to £215million from £227million
in the same period last year.

Despite the difficult start to the year the shuttle carried 2.3million people,
comparable to the same period last year, although this was underpinned by
business travel which had increased by seven per cent year-on-year.

The company remained optimistic with the upcoming launch of a South of France
service popular with customers, a year-on-year increase in forward bookings for
the summer months and reported high levels of traffic during the Easter holiday
period.

"We are on countdown to the launch of our new South of France service and ticket
sales are gathering pace," said Nicolas Petrovic, Eurostar chief executive.

"While the UK business market has been strong for some time, we are now seeing
the same trend on the other side of the channel.  With forward bookings up on
this time last year we are gearing up for a busy summer period."

Related articles George Osborne accused of 'selling off the family silver' after
announcing Eurostar sale Eurostar passengers complain of delays up to TWO DAYS
after man killed on tracks Nina Ricci heiress jailed after being found guilty of
tax fraud by French court

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      April 16, 2015 Thursday 1:06 PM GMT

Eurostar revenues down after Paris terror attacks;
First-quarter takings slump by 6% after January attacks, tunnel fire and rise in
sterling, but company says trading has rebounded

BYLINE: Gwyn Topham Transport correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 288 words


Eurostar's revenues fell in the first quarter of 2015 as ticket sales faltered
after the Paris terror attacks and disruption from a fire in the Channel tunnel.

After years of growing passenger numbers, only cheaper advance fares kept
thetrain operator's journey numbers at the previous year's level of 2.3m.

With forward bookings up on this time last year, we are gearing up for a busy
summer period

Nicolas Petrovic

Bookings fell after the attacks in January at the magazine Charlie Hebdo and a
kosher supermarket in Paris. Later that month, thousands of customers were
affected by delays and cancellations through a weekend after a lorry caught fire
aboard a Eurotunnel shuttle.

The increase in sterling against the euro also contributed to a 6% dip in
revenues to £215m, although Eurostar reported more premium business customers
travelling on its trains.

The company said trading had returned to normal, with numbers for the next
quarter likely to be boosted by record holiday traffic from Easter. It said
there were strong advance bookings for summer, particularly with the launch of
direct services to the south of France from London, stopping at Lyon, Avignon
and now Marseille.

The Eurostar chief executive, Nicolas Petrovic, said: "While the UK business
market has been strong for some time, we are now seeing the same trend on the
other side of the channel. With forward bookings up on this time last year, we
are gearing up for a busy summer period."

The coalition recently sold Britain's 40% stake in the high-speed flagship
international service to a consortium of private investors, raising £757m, a
deal that rail unions said was "selling Britain short", with more trains and
European routes expected in coming years.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 16, 2015 Thursday 7:10 PM GMT

Ohio man who trained with al Qaeda cell in Syria arrested after returning to US
with directive to carry out terror attack

BYLINE: REUTERS and SNEJANA FARBEROV FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words



     ·    Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, 23, from Columbus, said he got training from
          terror group linked to al Qaeda in Syria
     ·    Was instructed by cleric to return to US and carry out terror attack
     ·    His suspected plan was to go to a military base and kill three-four
          soldiers 'execution-style'
     ·    Mohamud was arrested in February on state charges of money laundering
          and providing support for terrorism
     ·    If convicted in federal case, the 3-year-old could face up to 40 years
          in prison


A 23-year-old resident of Columbus, Ohio, who trained with a group affiliated
with al Qaeda has been arrested and charged with plotting an attack on American
soil, the Justice Department revealed today.

Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, a naturalized American citizen of Somali descent, had
been instructed by a cleric to return to the United States and carry out an act
of terrorism, the indictment said.

The Justice Department stated that Mohamud was also an Islamic State
sympathizer, and that his brother, Abdifatah Aden, was killed fighting with the
group in Syria in 2013.

According to court documents, Mohamud left the US a year ago with the intent to
go to Syria and train with a terrorist group linked to al Qaeda in Iraq.

In April 2014, he purchased a one-way ticket to Greece, but during a layover in
Istanbul he failed to board a connecting flight to Athens and instead made his
way to Syria.

Once he reached his destination, Mohamud stated that he received training in
shooting weapons, breaking into houses, explosives and hand-to-hand combat.

The 23-year-old Columbus man aloes said that after completing his training, a
cleric with the group Jabhat al-Nusrah instructed him to return to the US and
commit an act of terror.

The 23-year-old returned to the US in June 2014 with a plot to attack a military
base or a correctional facility, targeting people in uniform, according to court
documents.

'Mohamud talked about doing something big in the United States,' the papers
cited by ABC News indicate. 'He wanted to go to a military base in Texas and
kill three or four American soldiers execution style.'

On Thursday, Mohamud was indicted on one count of attempting to provide and
providing material support to terrorists, one count of attempting to provide and
providing material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization, and
one count of making false statements to the FBI.

The first two counts, providing material support to terrorists and providing
material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization are each crimes
punishable by up to 15 years in prison.

Making false statements involving international terrorism carries a maximum
sentence of eight years in prison.

Mohamud was arrested on state charges February 21, 2015, and is expected to be
transferred into federal custody based on today's indictment.

Before Mohamud's brother was killed in battle on or around June 3, 2014, the two
had exchanged emails discussing the 23-year-old's plans to travel to Syria and
fight with Islamic State.

In February, Mohamud asked Abdifatah Aden how he could send him money.

Later that month, Mohamud was arrested at his Columbus home for allegedly
providing a computer tablet an other material support to terroist organizations
aborad.

Prosecutor Ron O'Brien at the time asked a judge to set Mohamud's bond at
$1million saying he was a flight risk and posed a threat to public safety.

Mohamud's attorney, Sam Shamansky, insisted that his client was not a terrorist
and would not flee because he was taking care of his ailing mother in Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Afghan officials involved in recent terrorist attack in Balkh Province -
governor

LENGTH: 434 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 16 April

[Presenter] The acting governor of [northern] Balkh Province has accused the
National Security Council and head of the National Directorate of Security of
having information about the masterminds of the latest suicide attack on the
Balkh appeal court. He also accused members of the Islamic Party led by
Golboddin Hekmatyar who have worked in the government of having a hand in the
attack. Meanwhile, a NDS source said that it received information about the
attack on the Balkh appeal court some three months ago and shared the
information with the security bodies of Balkh Province as well.

[Correspondent] The acting governor of Balkh Province disclosed some ambiguous
aspects of the latest suicide attack on the Balkh appeal court.

[Ata Mohammad Nur, acting governor of Balkh Province, captioned, talking to
camera] They [terrorists] received help from the city. There are members of the
Islamic Party who helped them. Someone, who still holds a government job and
lives in Kabul, was involved in the attack. Someone, who held a government job
in the past and is living in Mazar-e Sharif city, was involved in the attack.
The two individuals have cooperated with their sons [terrorists].

[Correspondent] Can you name them?

[Nur] Well, I do not want to name them until I further strengthen the evidence.

[Correspondent] Nur also said that the National Security Council and the head of
the National Directorate of Security had information about the attack on the
Balkh appeal court.

[Nur] Nabil, the head of the National Directorate of Security, knows that who
had kept terrorists and suicide bombers in his house in Kabul and transferred
them to Mazar. Since, he [supporter of terrorists] is a powerful person, nobody
can say anything to him. I swear that the National Security Council had
information about the attack.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, the National Directorate of Security said that it is
a non-political and professional body which is serving the Afghan nation to
ensure security in the country. A NDS source also said that it had received some
reports about attacking of the Balkh appeal court in January and shared the
information with the Balkh security bodies as well. Nineteen people were killed
and 67 others wounded in a group suicide attack in Balkh Province a week ago.
The building of the Balkh appeal court was burnt with all its documents and
equipment.

[Video shows the acting governor talking to correspondent, archive footage of
the site of the terrorist attack, affected people]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 16 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Death toll in east DRCongo terrorist attack rises to 18 - UN radio report

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by DRCongo's UN-sponsored Radio Okapi on 17 April

The death toll of the latest terrorist attack in Beni territory, Nord Kivu
Province [eastern DRCongo] has risen. The chairman of the local civil society
organization says four other corpses were discovered yesterday morning in
Ambenge, while seven other bodies were discovered late in the afternoon in
Wikemo, both villages in Beni Mbau sector, bringing to 18 the number of
civilians killed, according to the civil society chairman, Teddy Kataliko.

Kataliko also said six women, two of whom were pregnant, featured amongst the
victims. Security sources confirmed the death toll but insisted it was still
provisional.

Source: Radio Okapi (Goma), Goma, in French 0630 gmt 17 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Popularity of Kenyan president drops over terror attacks

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report by Alphonce Shiundu entitled "Poll: President Uhuru Kenyatta's
popularity drops by 10 points, majority say teachers should shun NE Kenya"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 17
April

President Uhuru Kenyatta's popularity nose-dived 10 percentage points after the
terror attack at the Garissa University College [northeastern Kenya].

A study by Ipsos Kenya released early Friday [17 April] shows the approval
ratings dropped from 76 per cent to 66 per cent. This is also buttressed by a
finding that three out of every five Kenyans (60 per cent) think "the country is
headed in the wrong direction".

Besides, Eight out of every 10 Kenyans think [Somali Islamists] Al-Shabab is
"very much a threat" to Kenya, but Kenyans are split over the presence of Kenyan
troops in Somalia.

The study also shows that nine out of 10 Kenyans agree with the teachers not to
go back to northeastern Kenya for fear of the terror attacks.

Dr Tom Wolfe of Ipsos released the results in Nairobi.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 17 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Retired firefighter tells of terror after burglar attacked him in his own home

BYLINE: Saiqa Chaudhari

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


A RETIRED fire officer has urged the public to help police catch an intruder who
brutally attacked him in his own home.

The victim, aged 66, suffered a broken hand, two black eyes and cuts and bruises
across his legs and back in the vicious assault in a quiet residential street in
Kearsley.

The father-of-two and grandad-of-four, who does not wish to be named, bravely
fought back by hitting the man with an iron bar.

Police have issued an appeal for the public's help to trace Marcus Cameron, who
is wanted in connection with the incident.

The victim said: "He needs to be caught before he does some real harm or if he
attacks someone who frail who cannot fight back, " said the victim who reached
the senior rank of Station Officer in the fire service

"I just thought it was my son who had come home early and I asked what he was
doing home.

"It was pitch dark in the dining room and when I went through I saw this man who
was wearing a hoodie, I told him he was in the wrong house and gently pushed him
towards the back door.

"But he grabbed my tracksuit and pulled it over my head so I couldn't see him
and he started attacking me, I couldn't see a thing - I must have blacked out
for a few seconds but when I came round something clicked I remembered there was
a metal bar behind the kitchen door, which I use as a lever to open the door
when it sticks. I grabbed it and I managed to clobber him.

"I couldn't see where I hit him but he came back afterwards and kicked the back
gate in.

"I was calm and phoned the police."

The attack took place just before 9pm on New Year's Eve when the man spotted a
shadow in the dinning room which is divided by French doors from the living
room.

The fire officer was taken to hospital before being released at 2am on New
Year's Day and he has been told he will make a full recovery.

He said: "I'm fine and I just hope this man is caught. This man came through the
back door, which I hadn't locked, and I would just say lock your doors, I go
round checking.

"He had gone through the drawers and I found later he had taken my thermal glove
and a torch."

Cameron, aged 25, is also wanted in connection with an assault in Tonge Moor on
March 11, in which a man smashed the window of a house and seriously assaulted a
woman inside.

Police say Cameron has links to the Manchester and Huddersfield areas. They have
warned members of the public against approaching him.

DCI Rick Jackson, head of Bolton CID said: "These crimes are of a very serious
nature and extreme violence was used against the female victims, some of whom
are elderly.

"If you see Cameron, do not approach him, but contact police immediately. Should
anybody be found to be assisting or harbouring this wanted man, they too will
face being arrested and a criminal conviction and a possible prison sentence of
their own."

If anybody has any information about his whereabouts then contact Police on 101
or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       April 17, 2015 Friday 4:23 PM GMT

Kilwinning Rangers footballer kept place in team after domestic abuse
conviction;
Michael Hart was jailed for 14 months for terrorising his wife, 36, in their
home then attacking a neighbour with a baseball bat.

BYLINE: By Irvine Herald

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


A Kilwinning Rangers player kept his place in the team after being convicted of
abusing his wife.

Former Buffs striker Michael Hart was sentenced to 14 months imprisonment at
Kilmarnock Sheriff court earlier this month after terrorising his wife and
attacking a neighbour with a baseball bat.

But the striker was still allowed to play for his team at least three more times
after admitting his guilt in court. He appeared at Kilmarnock Sheriff Court in
January and admitted threatening his wife at their home in West Kilbride.

The striker had been married for nine years and had two children but violence
erupted after he learned she had a relationship with a neighbour 20 years ago.

Hart then smashed up the house with a baseball bat, used threatening and abusive
behaviour towards his wife and refused her demands to leave.

He later ran out of the house and attacked his 45-year-old neighbour in his
garden, hitting him repeatedly with the bat.

The landscape gardener was badly injured in the attack - spending three days in
hospital with broken ribs, a fractured finger and shoulder damage.

Sentence was originally deferred until April 2 and Hart was freed on bail,
allowing him to continue playing for the Buffs.

Days after he admitted the charges, he turned out for Kilwinning in a 9-1
drubbing of Muirkirk.

Hart also scored in a 7-1 win over Darvel on March 20 and eight days later in a
penalty shoot-out win against the same side - days before he was jailed.

Hart played professionally for Morton for five years before turning part-time.
He also worked as an HGV driver for a local abattoir. Sheriff Alistair Watson
told Hart jail was his only option due to the "nature and gravity of the
offence".

Hart had a previous conviction involving domestic abuse in 2012 and the court
was told his marriage was now over.

Kilwinning Rangers chairman Danny Watt declined to comment on the court case and
Hart's inclusion in the team but told us: "The manager deals with the players."

Buffs boss Chris Strain told our sister paper the Sunday Mail: "It has been
dealt with by the courts and we have no comment to make."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       April 17, 2015 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Eurostar revenues drop 6 per cent following Paris terror attacks

LENGTH: 157 words


EUROSTAR'S revenues reversed 6 per cent in the first quarter as its previous
growth in passenger numbers hit the buffers following terror attacks in Paris
and disruption after a lorry fire in the Channel tunnel.

GETTY

Eurostar revenues reversed 6 per cent in the first quarter

The rise of sterling against the euro also contributed to a decline in sales
revenues to £215million, although the cross-Channel rail service reported more
premium business travellers.

Overall passenger numbers were unchanged at 2.3 million and the company said the
recovery in the UK economy was starting to take hold on the Continent, lifting
the numbers of business premier travellers by 7 per cent over the period.

Related articles Eurostar passengers complain of delays up to TWO DAYS after man
killed on tracks George Osborne accused of 'selling off the family silver' after
announcing Eurostar sale Eurostar passenger numbers 'fell due to Paris terror
attacks'

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             April 17, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror attacks hit Eurostar revenues;
business briefing

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 86 words


EUROSTAR said the Paris terror attacks in January affected its first-quarter
revenues.

A lorry fire in the Channel Tunnel in the same month also helped send revenues
down six per cent to £215million.

Passenger numbers of 2.3million from January to March were similar to those in
the same period last year. Business travellers were up seven per cent.

The high-speed rail company begins services to Lyon, Avignon and Marseille on
May 1. Eurostar chief executive Nicolas Petrovic said it was 'gearing up for a
busy summer'.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Terror attacks and fire dent Eurostar sales

BYLINE: Peter Woodman

LENGTH: 190  words


THE performance of Eurostar at the start of the year was affected by the Channel
Tunnel fire and Paris terrorist attacks in January, the high-speed rail company
has announced.

Passenger numbers in the first three months of the year were comparable to last
year, but sales revenue was down.

The terrorist attacks happened on 7-9 January, and the lorry fire on 17 January
led to the closure of the tunnel for several hours.

But Eurostar still carried 2.3 million passengers in the first quarter, with
business travellers increasing 7 per cent.

The company said sales revenue in the first three months of the year was
affected not only by the events in January but also by movements in exchange
rates. This meant that Q1 sales revenue was down 6 per cent to £215 million.

On 1 May, Eurostar starts a new south of France service, stopping at Lyon,
Avignon and Marseille.

FOLLOW US

SCOTSMAN TABLET AND MOBILE APPS

{http://bit.ly/ZqN0Hr | iPhone | Link to Scotsman iPhone app} |
{http://bit.ly/RIA37r | iPad | Link to iTunes} |  {http://bit.ly/1wFFxkF |
Android | Link to the Android store} |  {http://amzn.to/1wCOXwp | Kindle | Link
to Amazon store}

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday

Pakistan condemns terror attack in Afghanistan's Jalalabad

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report published by official Pakistani news agency Associated Press of
Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 18 April: Pakistan on Saturday [18 April] condemned the deadly
terrorist attack in Jalalabad this morning in which many precious lives were
lost and a large number were injured.

Foreign Office Spokesperson in a statement said such cowardly and indiscriminate
attacks against civilians have no justification under any circumstances. "We
send our deepest sympathies and condolences to the families of the victims and
pray for speedy recovery of the injured," said the spokesperson.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0735gmt
18 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      April 18, 2015 Saturday 6:19 PM GMT

Rachida Dati to meet UK officials as part of anti-extremism mission;
The French MEP says terrorist attacks in Paris, Copenhagen and Tunis 'show we
face a common challenge that transcends national borders'

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


The former French justice minister, Rachida Dati, is to meet with Home Office
officials, ministers and MPs next week as part of her European parliament
mission against the radicalisation of young people and their recruitment by
terrorist organisations.

She said: "I want to see what member states are doing that is working and to
understand what tools are lacking today to combat the radicalisation of European
individuals, often young, for whom jihad has become a cause if not an identity."

"I want to understand what leads a young person to become radicalised. I will
also analyse how Europe can support member states in their efforts to act at an
appropriate level."

She added: "The attacks in Paris, Copenhagen, Tunis, show that we face a common
challenge that transcends national borders. We have no choice but to tackle it
together if we are to better protect all European citizens.

"In an area of the free movement of people and information, the most appropriate
and effective action on security and the fight against terrorism can only come
at the European level. Terrorists will always benefit from the lack of
coordination between EU countries.

"Field workers, experts, security officers and those responsible for justice and
intelligence are best placed to give their views and their recommendations on
the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, which is why I'm travelling to
London and elsewhere to meet them."

The UN estimates the number of foreign fighters joining militant groups is more
than 25,000, from 100 different countries.

About 600 Britons are believed to have gone to Syria or Iraq since Islamic State
(Isis) took control of large swaths of territory, with most thought to have
volunteered as fighters for the extreme Islamist group. Around half of those are
believed to have later returned to the UK, according to the Metropolitan police.

Dati said one area she intends to look at closely is making the internet giants
"criminally liable" for the defence or promotion of terrorism and radicalisation
and the possible introduction of "systematic control of European citizens" at
the EU's external borders.

"A clear and binding framework should be put in place for the cooperation of
intelligence services within the EU and also third countries that are victims of
terrorism and jihad."

The former centre-right minister will also visit British NGOs fighting
radicalisation, particularly that of young women, in London before travelling to
Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and unspecified non-EU countries.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AMBUSH ATTACK TERROR FOR WOMAN;
Victim's facial injuries Was she lured there?

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 72 words


POLICE believe two women were ambushed on a leafy country lane.

One of them ended up in hospital with serious neck and face wounds after a thug
struck in Netherthong.

Police were last night waiting to interview the 22-year-old victim, and they
were looking to see if she had been a target or if it was a random attack.

Det Insp Stef Wiseman said: "This was an attack which could have had potentially
fatal consequences."

Full Story - Page 5

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene of attack on the woman motorist ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      April 18, 2015 Saturday 10:00 AM GMT

Anzac Day terror plot: Police arrest five teens on suspicion of Veteran's Day
terror attack plans

BYLINE: Alexandra Rucki

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 424 words


Five teenagers in Australia have been arrested on suspicion of plotting a terror
attack at a Veteran's Day ceremony.

The suspects include two 18-year-olds who were allegedly planning to have been
preparing an attack at the ANZAC Day ceremony in Melbourne, Australian police
said.

The plans also included targeting police officers.

One of the teens, Sevdet Besim, has appeared briefly in court on a charge of
preparing for, or planning, a terrorist act. He did not apply for bail and was
ordered to reappear in court next week.

Another 18-year-old was arrested on weapons charges and two other men, aged 18
and 19, were in custody and assisting police, police said.

ANZAC stands for the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps and commemorates the
First World War battle in Turkey on April 25.

Police said they believe the teenagers were inspired by the Islamic State group
and were alleged to have planned to use "edged weapons".

Australian police deputy acting commissioner Neil Gaughan said: "At this stage
we have no information that it was a planned beheading. But there was reference
to an attack on police.

"Some evidence that we have collected at a couple of the scenes, and some other
information we have, leads us to believe that this particular matter was
Isis-inspired."

Federal police deputy commissioner Michael Phelan said at a separate news
conference that the teens had links to Numan Haider, an 18-year-old who stabbed
two Melbourne police officers and was subsequently shot dead in September.

Haider had caught authorities' attention months earlier over what police
considered to be troubling behaviour, including waving what appeared to be an
Islamic State flag at a shopping mall.

Mr Phelan said the teenagers arrested today had been on officials' radars for
months, but the investigation ramped up when it appeared they were planning a
specific attack.

Related stories

"This is a new paradigm for police," Mr Phelan said. "These types of attacks
that are planned are very rudimentary and simple. All you need these days is a
knife, a flag and a camera and one can commit a terrorist act."

Australia's government has raised the country's terror warning level in response
to the domestic threat posed by supporters of the Islamic State group.

In December, Man Monis, an Iranian-born, self-styled cleric with a long criminal
history, took 18 people hostage inside a cafe.

He forced them to hold up a flag bearing the Islamic declaration of faith and
demanded he be delivered a flag of the Islamic State group. Monis and two
hostages were killed.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 18, 2015 Saturday 6:41 PM GMT

Islamic State claim responsibility for Jalalabad bomb in first Afghanistan
attack;
A suicide bombing in Jalalabad is the first time that Isil have staged a
terrorist attack in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words


A suicide bomber has killed 33 people queuing outside a bank in Jalalabad in
what is thought to be the first terrorist attack in Afghanistan carried out by
Islamic State.

Government employees were targeted in Saturday's attack - the worst in
Afghanistan since November - which was thought to have been carried out by a
suicide bomber on a bicycle or motorbike . Another blast took place near a
shrine and municipality buildings, and bomb disposal experts detonated a third
explosive device.

Smoke billowed from the building and windows were shattered in the blast, which
left people lying in pools of blood and body parts scattered across the ground.
Dr Najeebullah Kamawal, head of the provincial hospital, said that over 100
people were injured in the bomb - among them many children.

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said that his group was not behind the
"evil" attack.

Ashraf Ghani, the president of Afghanistan, condemned the attack and said
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) had claimed responsibility.

"Carrying out terrorist attacks in cities and public places are the most
cowardly acts of terror by terrorists targeting innocent civilians," he said, on
a visit to northeastern Badakhshan province.

"Who claimed responsibility for the horrific attack? The Taliban did not claim
responsibility for the attack, Daesh (Isil) claimed responsibility for the
attack."

Last month Mr Ghani had used a visit to the White House to announce that Isil
had already sent "advance guards" to his country, and warn of impending attacks.

An Isil spokesperson, Shahidullah Shahid, claimed responsibility online, and
identified the suicide bomber as Abu Muhammed Khurasani. Shahid is among a
number of former Taliban leaders and groups that have declared their allegiance
to Abu Bakr-al Baghdadi, the self-styled Caliph of Isil, which has overrun parts
of Syria and Iraq.

Isil published an image of Khurasani, kneeling before an Isil banner and with a
Kalashnikov beside him, reading what looked like a suicide note.

#Jalalabad attacker named Abu Mohammad Nangrahari, #IslamicState claims the
target was police in civilian clothes. pic.twitter.com/PdwpYOG6rJ

- ابو انس مجاهد (@aboanasmujahid) April 18, 2015

An email from the group reportedly confirmed the claim, and boasted of "sending
75 government servants to hell."

And the explosion would mark the first time that Isil have carried out a
terrorist assault inside Afghanistan.

In September the group published leaflets claiming that Pakistan and Afghanistan
formed part of their territory . A Taliban fighter in Afghanistan told the BBC
at the time that many of his organisation were considering throwing their
support behind Isil.

"We are waiting to see if they meet the requirements for an Islamic caliphate,"
said Commander Mirwais. "We are sure that our leadership will announce their
allegiance to them. They are great mujahideen."

A month later the Pakistani Taliban, under the command of Shadid, announced that
they were supporting Isil . The Taliban have now seen a series of defections to
Isil in recent months, with some insurgents voicing their disaffection with
their one-eyed supreme leader Mullah Omar, who has not been seen since the 2001
US-led invasion of Afghanistan.

Saturday's attack now means that Isil are active in Libya, Egypt and Afghanistan
- as well as the territory they control in Syria and Iraq.

Nigeria's Islamists, Boko Haram, announced their allegiance to Isil in March -
but most analysts dismissed that as empty posturing. Isil are thought to be
courting Somali terrorists with Al Shabaab, but no formal link has been
declared.

And the bombing came as Afghanistan braces for what is expected to be a bloody
push by the Taliban at the start of the fighting season. The Taliban have
stepped up attacks on government and foreign targets since Washington
back-pedalled on plans to shrink the US force in Afghanistan this year by nearly
half.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       April 19, 2015 Sunday 6:51 PM GMT

Jaws attack: Terror after GIANT SHARKS spotted circling the coast of England

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 283 words


HOLIDAYMAKERS have been placed on alert as huge sharks hit British shores thanks
to the recent hot weather.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The basking sharks, which can grow up to 26ft long, have been spotted off
beaches in many of the country's holiday hotspots.

As if that wasn't terrifying enough - thousands of jellyfish have also been
spotted in the waves.

Ross Wheeler of AK Wildlife Cruises in Falmouth, Cornwall, captured incredible
footage of the first sighting of a shark in UK waters.

"We had two basking sharks - our first for the season - thousands of barrel
jellyfish, 11 common dolphin and five harbour porpoise" he said.

The South West has seen temperatures of 24C in the last week and Brits are on
course to see one of the hottest Aprils on record.

Ross Wheeler of AK Wildlife Cruises

The sizzling temperatures have heated sea water around the UK coastline,
bringing the giant fish from deeper areas to swim about near popular beaches.

But the sighting isn't likely to mean a repeat of horrific scenes from 1975
thriller Jaws - the basking sharks are harmless but have been lured to the
Cornish coastline earlier than normal.

They swim around with their gaping jaws open to swallow tiny plankton, their
main food source.

Forecasters expect this month to be the hottest April in 100 years and odds on
the UK hitting a new all-time record breaking 40C this year are the shortest
they have ever been.

Related articles Shark attack survivor! One-armed badass hits waves - 22 weeks
pregnant Beach goers stunned as huge SHARK swims right up to shore Teen surfing
champ killed in horrific shark attack on holiday island

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 19, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

teens held in dawn aussie terror raids;
IS militants planned to attack police officers

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words


FIVE teenagers were arrested in early morning raids in Australia yesterday after
police foiled a terrorist plot.

The IS radicals were planning to attack officers during a World War One memorial
event in Melbourne.

The men, all aged between 18 and 19, are suspected of scheming to use "edged
weapons" to harm officers during the city's tribute to the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps landings at Gallipoli.

Senior police officials said they were confident the threat had been contained
through their work, codenamed Operation Rising, but gave few details.

They would only reveal the initial target was police officers and while they
referred to the use of "edged weapons", officials stressed they had no evidence
to suggest there was a plot to behead anyone.

The drama unfolded as Australia was preparing to mark the centenary of the
landings and there are huge events taking place throughout the country.

Acting Deputy Commissioner Neil Gaughan of the Australian Federal Police said:
"It clearly took inspiration from the Islamic State movement, also known as
ISIS." He told a news conference in Melbourne the plan targeted "Anzac Day
activity which included targeting police officers".

The memorial day on April 25 is a major annual holiday in Australia and New
Zealand marking the date of the first Gallipoli landings in 1915, where large
numbers of troops from the two countries fought and died.

After news broke, Tony Abbott, the Australian Prime Minister, called on people
to attend all memorial events as planned.

He said: "The best thing we can do to counter terrorism as individuals is to
lead normal lives." Around 200 police officers were involved in the raids in
Melbourne and Mr Gaughan said enquiries were ongoing.

Sevdet Besim appeared in court where he was charged with conspiring to commit a
terrorist act.

A second man, who has not been named, is being held on terrorismrelated
offences.

An 18-year-old was arrested on weapons charges and two other teens, aged 18 and
19, were in custody helping police with inquiries.

All five men are from suburbs in the South East of Melbourne.

garreth.macnamee@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Appeal: Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott calls for calm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Scottish Mail on Sunday

                                 April 19, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Foiled, Prince Charles Welsh terrorist attack

BYLINE: Chris Hastings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 423 words


A SECRET security operation was launched to protect Prince Charles from a feared
terror attack by Welsh nationalists at his investiture ceremony, newly released
official papers show.

The eyes of the nation were on the heir to the throne for the historic event on
July 1, 1969, but behind the scenes, Prime Minister Harold Wilson was convinced
terrorists campaigning for Welsh independence would target Charles - then 20 -
at the Caernarfon Castle ceremony. Classified documents obtained by The Mail on
Sunday under Freedom of Information laws show the Government sent Metropolitan
Police officers to Wales in the lead-up to the ceremony to join the fight
against extremists who had already set off a series of bombs.

The targets of the operation were members of the nationalist groups Movement for
the Defence of Wales (MAC) and the Free Wales Army (FWA).

The files show Wilson's government approved plans to send Met officers to Wales
to run a secret unit that would spy on the extremists. The files do not include
any details about the methods employed by the officers, but there are several
references to 'intelligence gathering' and the 'dissemination of information'.

On August 8, 1968, the Home Office wrote to all chief constables in Wales
informing them of the new police unit. The letter stated: 'The Home Secretary
thinks it necessary to adopt exceptional means of keeping himself informed about
the criminal activities of extremists in Wales and the action being taken to
deal with them.' It added: 'Officers from Scotland Yard will have the particular
assistance of an intelligence unit which will be created from (and detached
from) the regional crime squad.' Mr Wilson later voiced his fears in a letter to
James Callaghan, then Home Secretary, on February 4, 1969. He wrote: 'The
security position still gives cause for concern and we must be as sure as we can
that all possible precautions are taken.' But the increased surveillance did not
stop the groups' activities. On the evening before the investiture, two members
of MAC, Alwyn Jones and George Taylor, were killed when a bomb they had been
placing near Government offices exploded prematurely.

John Jenkins, the MAC leader who was later sentenced to ten years in jail for
his role in the movement, last night insisted he had never intended to harm the
Prince of Wales.

He said: 'We did what we did because we wanted to change the nature of the
investiture.' Buckingham Palace, the Home Office and the Met Police declined to
comment.

'Necessary to adopt exceptional means'

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLSscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 20, 2015 Monday

Intelligence Service Reportedly Averts Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 81  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Turkish intelligence service has averted a series of terrorist
attacks planned by the far-left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front
(DHKP-C) to be carried out in Turkey.


News: The Turkish intelligence service has averted a series of terrorist attacks
planned by the far-left Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C)
to be carried out in Turkey, reported Anadolu Agency. According to the reports,
the terrorists had planned attacks in several Turkish provinces, targeting
police stations as well as several top businesspeople. Allegedly, some militants
also underwent diving courses to attack ships in the country's coastal areas
(Vestnik Kavkaza).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 1:10 PM GMT

British boy aged 14 arrested over terrorist plot to attack a war ceremony

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 209 words


POLICE have arrested a teenage boy over an alleged plot to attack a war memorial
ceremony.

The 14-year-old boy was detained in Blackburn by Greater Manchester Police on
suspicion of being involved in a suspected plan to carry out a terrorist attack
at a ceremony in Australia.

The teenager was arrested on suspicion of involvement in the commission,
preparation, or instigation of acts of terrorism.

Detective chief superintendent Tony Mole said the arrest came after police found
"communication between an individual in the northwest and a man in Australia to
what we believe is a credible terrorist threat."

He said police had not uncovered an imminent threat to Britain.

The force said it had passed information to Australian authorities.

On Saturday police arrested five Australian teenagers on suspicion of plotting
an Islamic State group-inspired attack at an ANZAC Day ceremony in Melbourne
later this month.

Related articles Six Brits arrested in Dover on suspicion of 'Syria-related
terrorism offences' Brit jails are 'breeding Islamist extremism' claims
counter-terrorism expert BREAKING: Four more held in Syria terror inquiry
VIOLENT Islamic State rapper Denis Cuspert urges extremists to wage TERROR on
Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 8:57 PM GMT

After Boston Marathon's celebration of life, city debates death for bomber;
In a traditionally liberal state but in a city scarred by the terror attack of
two years ago, opinions are divided on the appropriate sentence for Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev

BYLINE: Nicky Woolf in Boston

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1003 words


Related: Boston bombing victim's parents: we do not want Dzhokhar Tsarnaev put
to death

Liliana Palmer was just streets away from where the bombs went off at the finish
line of the Boston Marathon, almost exactly two years ago. Palmer, who is now
10, and has purple and green streaks in her hair, said she remembers running
with her friend. It was confusing. "There was all this smoke," she said.

On Monday, Boston gathered for the marathon once again; just the second since
the one in 2013, when two pressure-cooker bombs, filled with ball-bearings and
nails and placed near the finish line, left three dead and more than 260
injured, many of them permanently maimed.

Its youngest victim, eight-year-old Martin Richard, was killed in the second
explosion. Palmer, a few dozen yards away, was the same age.

On Tuesday, the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev - who was found guilty of the bombing
at the beginning of April - will begin its second phase. In this, the penalty
phase, the same jury that convicted him will weigh more evidence, and hear more
witness testimony.

Then, they will decide whether to sentence Tsarnaev to death.

This year's marathon day dawned gusty, cloudy and wet, but that did not deter
the crowds. Police said they were expecting almost a million spectators. By
mid-morning, Boylston street, which two years ago was the scene of unbearable
carnage, was thronged again with cheering, laughing spectators in colourful
cagoules and plastic waterproofs. As competitors rushed past, the crowds shook
thousands of tiny cowbells in raucous cacophony.

Standing with the cheering crowds by the finish line on Monday, Liliana's mother
Nancy said that only "little things" - a red traffic light, an untied shoelace -
prevented them from being right where Richard was killed that day. "I don't even
want to think about it," said Bob Palmer, her father. "As a parent - the horror,
to think what could have happened."

Boston is going through a period of intense soul-searching. Many here, like
Hernandez, are torn over the appropriate sentence for Tsarnaev. Bill and Denise
Richard, Martin's parents, who have been in court for almost every day of the
trial, wrote a powerful front-page op-ed in the Boston Globe on Friday urging
the government to drop the death penalty.

The jury are barred from reading any press coverage; they were even barred from
attending Monday's marathon. But the question that will face them in court on
Tuesday runs deep; it is not just a media debate, it is a question of identity.
This is the most high-profile terrorism trial on US soil since Timothy McVeigh,
the Oklahoma City bomber, in 1997; more importantly, it is the first major
terrorism trial in the post-9/11 era.

"I think it would be more satisfying if he got life in jail," Francesca Quinion,
who was working at a bar off Boylston Street on the day of the attack, said.
"Death is kind of a cop-out." She was on her way to work at the same bar again
today, wearing a T-shirt that said "Boston Strong".

Erika Jeter, on her way to watch the marathon, was wearing the same T-shirt. For
her, she said, the sentencing phase tomorrow would bring things full circle. The
finish line, and the finish line. Unlike Quinion, though, she said she was in
favour of giving Tsarnaev the death penalty. "In this situation, I'm for it."
Her friend Victor Hernandez winced. "I'm torn," he said.

Massachusetts is a deeply liberal state; the death penalty was outlawed here
more than three decades ago. But also in Boston's DNA is the feeling that if you
get knocked down you come back up swinging. Boston does not forget easily, nor
does it forgive, and the bombing was a strike at its very heart. Almost everyone
knows someone who was there if they were not there themselves; many know someone
who was hurt. Everyone has a story.

Some survivors of the attack have spoken out in favour of a death sentence. Liz
Norden, whose two sons each lost a leg in the blast, told reporters outside the
courthouse after the verdict was handed down that "[death] would be justice, for
me".

Despite entering an official plea of not guilty, Tsarnaev's defence team did not
contest the facts of the case in the guilt phase. The verdict was a foregone
conclusion from the start. Most of the legal manoeuvring had the sentencing
phase in mind; the important question was never guilty or innocent; it was life,
or death.

At issue is the question of why Tsarnaev did it; who he is, what internal and
external forces brought him to the finish line that day. Offstage, but
ever-present, was Tsarnaev's elder brother Tamerlan. By the prosecution's
narrative, the two were equal partners in evil, and Tsarnaev self-radicalised.
The defence, by contrast, aim to paint Tsarnaev as weak; a stoned teenager, in
thrall to Tamerlan; a follower.

That is crucial distinction that will now be tested in court.

The first thing Liliana said when she heard they were going to the marathon on
Monday, her mother Nancy said, was "are there going to be explosions?" Looking
at her daughter, Nancy stopped and gave a helpless look. In the background,
bells rang deafeningly.

Bob said that despite the increased security, he was still nervous bringing his
daughter back here. "Someone with a suicide vest could walk right up," he said.
Nancy said she can't stop going over the day in her mind. "Would we have noticed
the backpack, if [Tsarnaev] had put it behind us?" Bob shook his head.

They have followed the trial; Nancy thought death for Tsarnaev would be "the
easy way out". Bob said he might be more inclined towards capital punishment,
but thought it would end up bogged down in endless appeals. "Lock him up," said
Nancy. "And throw away the key," Bob added.

But still, they have come back to the marathon.

Behind them, a group of wheelchair racers swooped through the finish line,
flanked by police motorbikes. Another loud cheer went up from the crowd.
Tomorrow the city must decide between life and death; but for today, Boston has
chosen life. And as the runners passed, the bells rang out.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 12:48 PM GMT

Copenhagen police find almost a dozen notes around city warning of terrorist
attack;
The notes were all found in the district of Østerbro, the district where the
twin terrorist attacks took place in February

BYLINE: Jamie Campbell

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 283 words


Almost a dozen notes threatening a new terrorist attack have been found in the
same Copenhagen district where a gunman opened fire on a debate on free speech
in February, police have said.

As reported by Danish news website TV2 Lorry, eleven notes have been discovered
around the district of Østerbro warning of a new terror attack.

They apparently said: "Denmark will soon be hit by a terror attack that will
make what happened on February 14 look like a prank - look forward to it."

A number of the notes are said to have been placed at Krudttønden, the café in
Østerbro where gunman Omar El-Hussein opened fire on a talk on free speech and
blasphemy, killing 55-year old filmmaker Finn Nørgaard.

El-Hussein, 22, later killed security guard Dan Uzan, a security guard at a
Copenhagen synagogue. Several police officers were injured in the shootings
before El-Hussein was killed by police.

The notes, say TV2 Lorry, were further placed at a memorial site for Nørgaard.

Speaking to news agency Ritzau, Copenhagen Police Spokesman Carsten Reenberg
said: "Some notes have been hung up in Østerbro. I can't discuss the content but
we are investigating it." Shooting at Copenhagen blasphemy event

TV2 Lorry said that police have enlisted the help of Danish Security and
Intelligence services to help track who had been responsible for the placing of
the letters.

Five men have been arrested for allegedly aiding El-Hussein, a Dane of
Palestinian origin, in getting hold of the weapons he used in the twin attacks.

Last month all five had their custody extended for an additional four weeks.

The original attack was inspired by the massacre of Charlie Hebdo staff in Paris
that took place in January, police said.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 9:05 PM GMT

Ethiopian runner who won the Boston Marathon in 2013 returns to take first place
again - two years on from the terror attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 825 words



     ·    Lelisa Desisa came in first place with 2 hours, 9 minutes, 17 seconds
     ·    Caroline Rotich of Kenya won the women's division with 2 hours, 24
          minutes, 55 seconds after spring finish against Mare Dibaba of
          Ethiopia
     ·    Security high at event two years after homemade explosives killed
          three near the finish line of prestigious race
     ·    Competition comes less than three weeks after Boston Bomber Dzhokhar
          Tsarnaev was found guilty of terrorism for explosions at 2013 finish
          line


The runner who won the Boston Marathon in 2013 and donated his medal to the city
after the deadly terrorist bombings has been crowned this year's men's winner.

Lelisa Desisa, 25, of Ethiopia won with an unofficial time of 2 hours, 9
minutes, 17 seconds and beat his previous winning time by more than a minute on
a day when security was on high alert for potential threats to competition's
119th race.

Thirty-thousand runners cruised through a damp Monday morning route where
well-wishers drew 'Boston Strong' in chalk on the pavement to remember the three
dead and more than 260 injured in attack near the finish line two years ago.

Scroll down for video

'I'm happy for No. 1,' Desisa said. 'I am happy to win and for a strong Boston
2013.'

His countryman Yemane Adhane Tsegay was second with 2:09:48 in mid-40s weather,
and Wilson Chebet of Kenya took third in 2:10:22.

Caroline Rotich, 30, of Kenya won the women's division after a tense final
stretch.

Rotich finished in an unofficial time of 2 hours, 24 minutes, 55 seconds, edging
out Mare Dibaba of Ethiopia in a sprint finish on Boylston Street.

'I got to the last corner and I saw the finish line tape and I thought this is
it, I'm not going to let it go,' said Rotich, who gave Kenya its fifth straight
women's victory in Boston.

Dathan Ritzenhein was seventh overall in the men's race and the first American
in at an unofficial 2:11:20, followed by last year's winner, Meb Keflezighi, in
2:12:42.

Keflezighi's triump in 2014 was seen as an inspiring and resilient victory for
Boston and the marathon as the annual event continues to bring back memories of
2013.

Carlos Arredondo, a first-responder that year, handed out American flags at the
finish line on Monday,

The race comes less than three weeks after Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the
then-19-year-old Chechen Cambridge resident who brought bombs to the race, was
found guilty of all the terrorism charges against him in a trial that saw moving
testimony from victims who had lost loved ones and limbs.

Tsarnaev, now 21, could face the death penalty after sentencing in federal
court.

Some victims of the attack have spoken out saying they are against capital
punishment for the young man.

Newlyweds Jessica Kensky and Patrick Downes, who lost limbs in the bombing, said
that they support life without parole so that Tsarnaev 'disappears from our
collective consciousness as soon as possible,' according to the Boston Globe.

'If there is anyone who deserves the ultimate punishment, it is the defendant.
However, we must overcome the impulse for vengeance,' they said.

While the events and victims of two years ago were remembered on Monday, the
race proceeded as it has done since 1897.

The fastest man in the Boston Marathon field, Kenya's Patrick Makau, dropped out
after the 5-kilometer checkpoint.

It wasn't clear why he dropped out.

The Kenyan's personal best of 2 hours, 3 minutes, 38 seconds made him one of the
biggest threats to defending champion Meb Keflezighi's hopes of repeating
Monday.

Caroline Rotich of Kenya won the women's division after a tense final stretch.

Dibaba's countrywoman, Buzunesh Deba, was third in the women's race, and
American Desiree Linden finished fourth after leading for much of Monday's race.

Marcel Hug of Switzerland won the men's wheelchair race.

It took him 1:29:53 for his first Boston win. The 28-year-old finished fourth
last year.

Hug deprived Ernst Van Dyk of his 11th Boston Marathon victory. The South
African is already the most decorated Boston competitor with 10 titles.

American Tatyana McFadden continued her reign atop the Boston Marathon women's
wheelchair race with her third consecutive victory.

McFadden rolled down Boylston Street to finish in an unofficial 1 hour, 52
minutes, 54 seconds.

She wore a singlet in memory of Martin Richard, the 8-year-old boy who was
killed in the 2013 finish line bombing.

McFadden, 25, is a four-time Paralympian and also the reigning champion of the
Chicago, New York City and London marathons.

The Russian-born adoptee and Maryland native also finished second in the 1
kilometer Nordic skiing sprint in the 2014 Paralympics.

One small difference at this year's race was the absence of runner Dick Hoyt,
75, who instead served as Grand Master, according to Boston.com.

The father became a fixture at the competition over the years after pushing his
disabled son Rick, 53, along the course more than 32 times.

The family has also set up a non-profit that advocates for better self-esteem
among disabled youth.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 6:00 PM GMT

Lee Rigby copycat killing: Would-be terrorist "groomed" teenager to attack
soldiers on London streets;
Kazi Islam, 18, is accused of grooming a teenager to attack one or more soldiers
with a knife, the Old Bailey heard

BYLINE: By Emily Pennink

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


A would-be teen terrorist groomed a fellow teenager to carry out a Fusilier Lee
Rigby copycat killing, a court has heard.

Kazi Islam, 18, is accused of "ruthlessly exploiting" 19-year-old Harry Thomas
with a combination of "flattery and threats" to buy the ingredients for a pipe
bomb and to attack one or more soldiers with a knife.

A series of exchanges on BlackBerry Messenger and social media sites were
uncovered when police raided the house in east London where Islam lived with his
family, jurors were told.

Prosecutor Annabel Darlow QC said Islam had befriended Thomas in October 2013 by
pretending to sympathise with him over a break-up with a girlfriend.

He went on to incite Thomas to kill a soldier with stories of innocent children
being murdered by military forces and even suggested he start calling himself
Haroon, rather than Harry.

In exchanges, he encouraged him to buy the component parts of an improvised
explosive device - referring to it in code as "cake".

Ms Darlow said: "As the messages between Harry Thomas and the defendant expose
all too clearly, Thomas was a vulnerable, not particularly bright, young man who
was desperate to impress Islam and to try and forge some sort of friendship with
him.

"Islam ruthlessly exploited to the utmost Thomas' vulnerability and obvious wish
to try and ingratiate himself with Islam.

"Firstly he took steps to prepare to make and detonate an explosive device - a
home-made bomb.

"Rather than risk his own neck by going out and trying to assemble the necessary
component for a bomb, he tried to exploit others, Thomas in particular, to buy
the components for a bomb.

"The defendant also researched bomb-making over the internet and on May 1, 2014
downloaded a document entitled 'How to Make Semtex'.

"The second strand to the defendants' activities centred upon germinating a plot
to attack a soldier.

"He repeatedly praised the actions of those who had murdered Fusilier Lee Rigby
in Woolwich and actively encouraged Thomas to take the life of one or more
soldiers."

In July 2014, Islam's home in Meanley Road, Newham, east London, was raided by
police who seized his computer and two mobile phones.

The prosecutor read out some of the messages between Islam and Thomas, who will
not be giving evidence as a witness in the trial.

In November 2013, Islam asked Thomas: "Did you get the ingredients mate?"

Thomas replied that he got "some pipes" but during the course of the
conversation it appeared that he got the wrong ones.

In December 2013, Thomas asked: "Who're we gonna blow up?"

Islam replied "no-one" adding: "I'll tell you when I see you."

Thomas's unsuccessful attempts to be subtle were exposed in a conversation on
December 20, 2013, when Islam asked: "So we need to work on this cake."

Thomas responded: "Cake? You mean the bomb."

Islam wrote "yeah yeah" and Thomas replied: "So when we made the b what we gonna
do with it?"

Islam ordered: "Just get the ingredients."

Thomas then replied: "Will do all need to get now are the fireworks then we can
make it waiting till I get payed so can get them and after we done the b r we
gonna kll a soldier with a K I fe (sic)."

Islam said: "Kool mate".

He later tried to incite Thomas to kill a solider, telling him: "When I give you
the order I want you to kill a soldier..2 soldiers..not yet though."

Drummer Rigby, of the 2nd Battalion, Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, was killed in
Woolwich on 22 May, 2013.

He was murdered in broad daylight by Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael
Adebowale, 22, after first being hit by a car then attacked with knives.

Islam is on trial at the Old Bailey for engaging in preparation of terrorist
acts.

He denies the charge.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2015 Monday 1:40 PM GMT

Elysée palace gunfire 'sparks panic';
Member of French president François Hollande's security detail accidentally
fires his gun inside the Elysée palace, sparking fears that a terror attack was
under way

BYLINE: By Rory Mulholland in Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


François Hollande's                                          panicked aides
thought a terror attack was under way when a gunshot rang out in the Elysée
palace, but it quickly emerged that the bullet was fired by accident by a member
of the president's security detail, reports said.

The incident last week came at a time of heightened security fears in the wake
of the Charlie Hebdo terror attacks in Paris by Islamist gunmen that left 17
dead in January .

The president was not in the palace when the gun was fired on the ground floor
of the 18th-century palace on Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré, which houses Mr
Hollande's offices and his official residence .

His aides were holding a meeting on the first floor when they heard the gunfire
and immediately called the gendarmes in charge of presidential security to find
out what was going on, Le Point magazine reported.

They were informed that a gendarme had accidentally set off his Glock 26 pistol
and that the bullet had ricocheted before lodging in a wall. Le Point said that
workers were quickly called in to fill in the hole in the wall.

The incident will heighten criticism of the president's security detail, who
were lambasted for letting Mr Hollande visit the scene of the deadly attack on
Charlie Hebdo magazine in January before the site was properly secured.

French media were also asking on Monday why the Elysée had not made public the
reported incident.

Contacted by the Telegraph, the president's office said no one was immediately
available to comment on the incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

Saudi Arabia's security forces on alert over possible "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 21 April

[Unattributed report: "Terror Threat Puts Kingdom on Top Alert"]

Saudi Arabia has put security forces on alert for a possible militant attack on
vital energy installations and popular shopping malls, Interior Ministry
spokesman Maj-Gen Mansour Al-Turki said on Monday [20 April].

"There was information about a possible terrorist attack targeting a mall or
Saudi Aramco installation. We have passed this information to the security
forces to be on alert," Al-Turki said in a statement.

Al-Turki said he had no further information about the threat.

Riyadh has been carrying out airstrikes against Iran-allied Huthi rebels in
Yemen since 26 March in Operation Decisive Storm for restoring the country's
legitimacy.

"Saudi Arabia is targeted by terrorism. Usually in such situations (conflicts),
there are attempts by terrorist groups to take advantage and carry out attacks,"
said Al-Turki.

On Saturday, guards at the gates of a central Riyadh shopping mall stopped
single men from entering and searched the bags of female shoppers.

In 2006, four Al-Qaeda militants breached the gates of Saudi Aramco's Abqaiq
plant but couldn't cause significant damage.

Since then Saudi Arabia has strengthened the security of energy infrastructure
and set up a 40,000-strong force for the purpose.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 21 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

Kenyan university student denies charges of raising false terror attack alarm

LENGTH: 327 words


Text of report entitled "Youth denies issuing terror attack threat at Egerton
University" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website
on 21 April

A young man accused of raising a false alarm that Egerton University would be
attacked by terrorists was on Monday [20 April] released on a 550,000 shillings
[5,860 dollars] bond by a Nakuru court.

Mr Robert Mungai, 21, alias Mohamed Bluez was set free on bail after the
prosecution said they were not opposed to it.

Earlier, defence lawyer David Mongeri argued that there were no compelling
reasons to deny the accused bond as he was a law-abiding citizen, was not a
flight risk and was entitled to bond as a constitutional right.

However, the prosecutor, Mr Martin Rabera asked the court to give the accused
adequate terms and conditions that will compel him not to abscond court.

Nakuru Senior Principal Magistrate Felix Kombo allowed the bail application and
directed that the suspect reports to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations
offices in Nakuru once a week until the court decides otherwise.

Mr Mungai was also barred from travelling outside the country.

The accused has denied posting threatening messages on the Egerton University
Facebook page on April 4, causing a false alarm that a terrorism attack was
imminent at Kenya's flagship agricultural university.

Mr Mungai had complained of being tortured by police during his stay in custody,
a claim that the prosecution dismissed saying he could have been assaulted by
fellow cell mates and that he had not lodged an official complaint with the
Njoro Police Station Commander.

The court heard that the suspect had posted a threatening message on the
university's public Facebook page saying the attack at the Njoro-based
university would be worse than what hit Garissa University college where 147
students and security personnel died.

Hearing of the case was slated for 15 June.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 21 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

Government Warns Of Terror Attack On Aramco And Malls

LENGTH: 105  words



HIGHLIGHT: Saudi Arabia has warned of a possible terror strike on oil facilities
operated by Saudi Aramco and shopping malls located in the capital city of
Riyadh.


News: Saudi Arabia has warned of a possible terror strike on oil facilities
operated by Saudi Aramco and shopping malls located in the capital city of
Riyadh. 'We have informed security forces to be on alert and to take any
necessary security procedures [against] a possible terrorist attack attempt,'
said Interior Ministry spokesperson Mansour al-Turki on April 20 (Bloomberg).
The warning comes as Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter and a key
strategic ally of the US, is experiencing a heightened level of threat from
strikes against its territory by jihadist militant groups such as al-Qaeda and
the Islamic State.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

Police Prevent Potential Terrorist Attack During Gallipoli Centenary

LENGTH: 110  words



HIGHLIGHT: Following a month-long sting operation in Australia, police arrested
five men, aged 18 and 19, on April 18 and prevented an alleged Islamic
State-inspired terrorist attack during the Gallipoli centenary event due to take
place in the week ending April 25.


News: Following a month-long sting operation in Australia, police arrested five
men, aged 18 and 19, on April 18 and prevented an alleged Islamic State-inspired
terrorist attack during the Gallipoli centenary event due to take place in the
week ending April 25, according to Prime Minister Tony Abbott. The sting
operation included several raids in the Australian city of Melbourne. The police
officers, who found 'edged weapons' such as a sword and knife during the raids,
are confident that a possible threat has been contained, stated senior police
officials. Of the five arrested, 'two will be charged with preparing a terrorist
act,' said Abbott (Reuters).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 21, 2015 Tuesday 9:11 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing jury told attack was 'essence of terror';
Prosecution focuses on victims as it pushes for death penaltyJury must be
unanimous for sentence of execution by lethal injection

BYLINE: Nicky Woolf in Boston

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 544 words


"The essence of terror."

That is how federal prosecutors described the actions of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, as
the government made its opening statement at the start of the penalty phase of
his trial.

Related: After Boston Marathon's celebration of life, city debates death for
bomber

Earlier in April, the jury at a federal courthouse in Boston found Tsarnaev
guilty on all 30 terrorism charges relating to the 2013 bomb attack on the
Boston Marathon. Seventeen of those charges carry a possible death penalty.

The attack left three dead and more than 260 injured. Tsarnaev was also
convicted on counts relating to the events of subsequent manhunt and shootout,
and the death of MIT police officer Sean Collier.

Now, in the penalty phase, the same jury will hear new evidence from both
prosecution and defence over the next several weeks. Then, they must decide
whether to sentence Tsarnaev to death by lethal injection, or life in prison.

A vote for death must be unanimous; if even a single juror holds out against
execution, the sentence cannot be given.

Giving the opening statement in the government's pitch for death, assistant US
attorney Nadine Pellegrini appealed to jurors by focusing on Tsarnaev's victims.
"Their families had every right to expect that they would live out their lives
and realise [their] potential," she said.

"You know how Krystle Campbell, Linxi Lu, Martin Richards and Sean Collier died.
Now you need to know how they lived. You need to know and understand why their
lives mattered."

Pellegrini adopted a convention that until now only the defence had followed;
referring to Tsarnaev by his university nickname, "Jahar".

"Jahar Tsarnaev took them all away in the most brutal and painful way possible,"
she said, gesturing to easels holding large pictures of the four victims. "They
were all beautiful, and they are now gone.

Throughout the opening statement, as he has during most of the trial, Tsarnaev
remained impassive, gazing down at the desk. "Whether Jahar was radicalised by
his brother; by [radical cleric] Anwar al-Awlaki; by [al-Qaida magazine]
Inspire, the origins don't matter," Pellegrini said. "His actions do."

On Friday, Bill and Denise Richard - Martin Richard's parents - published a
front-page opinion piece in the Boston Globe, asking the government to drop its
requests for the death penalty.

On Tuesday, as the government made its case for death in front of a picture of
their son, Bill was in the courtroom. He has been there for almost every day of
the trial so far.

At the end of her statement, Pellegrini revealed a picture of Tsarnaev giving
the finger to a security camera. Taken when he was in custody, it was the first
time the photograph has been shown publicly.

Instructing the jury, Judge George O'Toole explained that their duty was to
balance "aggravating factors" and "mitigating factors" in deciding whether to
vote for a death sentence or life.

"This is not a mechanical process," he stressed. "[The factors] should be
considered qualitatively."

Tsarnaev's defence elected not to follow the prosecution with their opening
statement; instead, they will give their opening statement when the prosecution
has finished laying out its case. They are expected to portray Tsarnaev as in
thrall to his elder brother Tamerlan.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 21, 2015 Tuesday 7:03 AM GMT

Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Mumbai's iconic railway station - a history of
cities in 50 buildings, day 20;
The old Victoria Terminus was the first truly public building in Bombay. So when
it became a target of the 2008 terrorist attacks, what was violated was much
more than just a railway station

BYLINE: Srinath Perur

SECTION: CITIES

LENGTH: 1075 words


Almost anyone who has lived in Mumbai has paused in the common area at the head
of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus suburban train platforms - not least to
relieve the pervading mugginess by getting in the way of the industrial strength
blowers that pass for fans.

From here one sees trains pull in, and commuters step off even before the train
has stopped. A residual momentum propels them out into the city, as if the
characteristic buzz of Mumbai is generated entirely in its trains.

It would be reason enough to pick Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (formerly
Victoria Terminus) as the building most emblematic of Mumbai because more than
three million of the city's residents rush through its portals every day. But
this late-19th-century railway terminus happens also to be one of the finest
examples of colonial architecture in the country, representing an
east-meets-west style that developed here.

This is also where the first passenger train service in India started; the
railway would prove indispensable to Mumbai's functioning and growth. The
terminus was also perhaps the first truly public building in what was then
Bombay. Now, its structure is iconic to the point of cliche: when a Hindi film
needs to establish a scene as happening in Mumbai, it's CST that fills the
screen, a stately edifice amid a swirl of traffic and people.

A language was put together... for monumental public buildings, and it gave the
city centre its identity

Prasad Shetty

And so, when CST became a target of the 2008 terrorist attacks, what was
violated was much more than a railway station. Fifty-eight people died here;
more than 100 were injured. Few Mumbaikars had seen the insides of the five-star
hotels that were also attacked, but everyone had walked on the platforms that
were seen bloodied in news reports. To strike CST was to get at the heart of
Mumbai.

The prominence of CST has much to do with its location - it connects the
administrative and business centre of the city with its residential suburbs. The
urban juncture it occupies has its roots in the 1860s as the city of Bombay
began changing its character from a military post of the British to a mercantile
capital.

The governor of Bombay, Sir Bartle Frere, had the fort demolished and created
room for a group of public buildings. These were built from 1860 to around 1900,
and they came to define the city of Bombay: the Bombay Municipal Corporation
building, the Sir JJ School of Art, Bombay University, the High Court, the
Western Railway offices, the General Post Office, and of course Victoria
Terminus - also known as VT.

The favoured aesthetic was the gothic revival that was then fashionable in
England, but architects and builders in Bombay had to work with Indian
craftsmen, material, motifs and climate. The result was a style that has been
called, among other things, "Bombay Gothic". As Prasad Shetty, an urbanist who
teaches at Mumbai's School of Environment and Architecture, explains: "A
language was put together during this period for monumental public buildings,
and it gave the city centre its identity. The pinnacle of this gothic revival in
Bombay was VT."

Victoria Terminus was designed by the architect FW Stevens and built over 10
years to open in 1887. From the outside, it looks far more imposing that its
three storeys for its profusion of spires, turrets, domes and gables. Close up,
the building is heavily ornamented with floral and animal patterns. The grand,
modern identity the British sought for their colonial cities must have been
evident in this cathedral that enshrined the power of steam locomotion. Above
the central dome of the station is a personification of the whole affair, a
14-foot-tall statue of Progress.

It's doubtful whether the colonial origins of the station even register with
commuters today, who stream through as if the structure were invisible. Victoria
Terminus was officially renamed Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus in 1996, but it is
still common to hear a snappy "VT return" at ticket counters across the city.

Mumbai and the railways were made for each other. The city is constrained by the
sea to be narrow, so distances are large and discouraging of other means of
commute. This also mean fewer train lines are required to connect the city.
Although the trains are packed to bursting, they remain the most reliably
predictable form of commute, essential for a city that runs on commerce. Mumbai
is perhaps the only Indian city where many who can afford a car and a driver
still choose to travel by public transport.

The first passenger rail service in India started from here in 1853, going north
to Thane through what are today densely populated suburbs. Soon, tracks were
laid across the country and Victoria Terminus housed the headquarters of the
Great Indian Peninsula Railway (now Central Railway). The original platforms are
now used for suburban trains and an extension to the station, constructed in
1929, for intercity trains. Mumbai has grown as a city of migrants and for many,
the city's first taste must have been this railway station.

Shetty points out that VT was the first colonial structure in Bombay that
counted as a truly public space in its scale and its "ability to hold people
inside and outside with generosity". It's true that there were already markets,
clubs, colleges and religious shrines, but none was open to all. With the
construction of VT, here was a building shared between Europeans and Indians of
all religions, castes and classes.

More than a century later, it was this public space that came under attack. Yet
the trains were back in service the following morning, and the space began to be
reclaimed by normalcy - and occasionally, something more...

There can't be many songs about valour and sacrifice that also qualify as
joyful, but then Hindi cinema contains improbable riches. On an evening, exactly
three years and a day after the attacks, the station's public address system
stopped announcing trains and burst into one such song. A flash mob of 200
Mumbai residents danced for around four minutes in the area leading to the
platforms, then rushed off into the city - as if they had just got off a train,
and had many things to do.

· Which other buildings in the world tell stories about urban history? Share
your own pictures and descriptions with GuardianWitness, on Twitter and
Instagram using #hoc50 or let us know suggestions in the comments below

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 21, 2015 Tuesday 4:40 PM GMT

Ohio man who 'trained with al-Qaeda to launch terror attack on US' told friends
he was on vacation 'chilling in Istanbul'

BYLINE: REUTERS and MAIL ONLINE REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 761 words



     ·    Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, 23, is charged with supporting terrorism and
          making false statements by federal prosecutors
     ·    Classmates expressed shock, remembering him as a normal and likable
          high school student who was not deeply religious
     ·    Mohamud, 23, a naturalized American, had been instructed by a Muslim
          cleric to return to the United States and carry out an act of
          terrorism


An Ohio man who trained with al-Qaeda terrorist tried to play off his time
abroad as a harmless holiday when questioned by his friends, authorities said.

'I'm chilling in Istanbul,' Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud wrote a high school friend
on Facebook. 'Just a vacation.'

But federal prosecutors charging Mohamud with supporting terrorism and making
false statements say he was actually being instructed to carry out a terrorist
act in the United States.

Scroll down for video

He pleaded not guilty to the charges Friday in a Columbus federal court.

Mohamud, 23, a naturalized American, had been instructed by a Muslim cleric to
return to the United States and carry out an act of terrorism, a federal
indictment said.

It said Mohamud had told an associate that he wanted to go to a military base in
Texas and 'kill three or four American soldiers execution-style.'

Before traveling from the United States to Syria, Mohamud had posted material on
social media promoting symbols of the Islamic State militant group, the
indictment said.

However, a law enforcement official told Reuters that once in Syria Mohamud and
his brother, Aden, trained with the Nusra Front, the local affiliate of al
Qaeda.

In Syria he sent videos of himself to an unnamed person, the indictment said.

In one video, he pointed to a gun in a holster on his hip ,and in another he
stood in front of a white house with a black flag on it.

Mohamud's brother, Abdifatah Aden, was killed fighting with the Nusra Front,
according to the indictment.

NBC  reports that a 17-year-old cousin of Mohamud's in the United Kingdom said
that Mohamud's older brother had arrived in Syria 'to help out the oppressed
Muslims there.'

However neither brother showed any signs of hating their adopted country.

'(Mohamud) loved Americans," he said. 'He was one of them.'

Yet another brother, Abdiqani Aden, has also been arrested and after being
accused of making a threatening gesture at a guard while visiting his brother in
prison.

Such accusations are completely foreign to friend Mohamed Elrayah, who had
gotten the 'I'm chilling' years after the two lost touch.

'He did normal things - basketball, go to the park, go to the movies on
Fridays,' Elrayah told NBC News. 'Everyone loved being around him. He was a nice
person.'

Elrayah, three years Mohamud's senior at school, did not recall the accused
terrorist-in-training as a particularly religious man when they first met.

However in 2011, he says he say his friend growing a long beard.

'I asked him about it and he said, 'Well, I'm kind of religious now,'' Elrayah
told reporters, adding that he did not see the new religious interest a sign of
being radicalized.

In fact, he said he was astonished to hear of the charges.

'I would like to ask him, 'What happened?' I just keep thinking, 'What happened
to this kid?'' Elrayah told reporters.

Upon his return to the United States, authorities said, Mohamud told an
unidentified person that while in Syria, he had been trained in shooting
weapons, breaking into houses, using explosives and engaging in hand-to-hand
combat.

According to the indictment, Mohamud 'wanted to kill Americans, and specifically
wanted to target armed forces, police officers or any uniformed individuals.'

The indictment said Mohamud's plan was to attack a U.S. military base but that
he also had a backup plan to attack a prison.

Mohamud also waived a detention hearing on Friday, and will remain in custody,
court documents said.

His trial is set for June 22.

The three brother's mother was widowed last year, and is struggling to
comprehend what has happened in her family.

'It's tragic for her,' said Hassan Omar, director of the Somali Community
Association of Ohio.

The larger Somali community in the area is also worried about how this will
reflect on the nation's second-biggest community of such immigrants outside of
Minnesota.

Roughly half-a-dozen men there were indicted last week after being accused of
working to support ISIS.

'We came barehanded from refugee camps. We created 4,000 businesses in Columbus.
We have 3,000 or 4,000 kids who have graduated from high school and college,'
Omar told NBC.

He added: 'This kind of terrorist, or ISIS or Shabab is destroying our image.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 21, 2015 Tuesday 3:53 PM GMT

Revealed: The Alabama student who tricked her parents and fled to Syria to
become an ISIS bride. Now she's radicalizing other Americans into carrying out
'drive-by' terror attacks on U.S. soil

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 630 words



     ·    Hoda Muthana, 20, left Hoover, Alabama, to join extremists in Raqqa,
          Syria
     ·    Business student tricked her family to escape them and fly to Middle
          East
     ·    Told how she was helped to plan escape by jihadists she met online
     ·    Cashed in money meant for college courses to pay for her flight


An American college student who abandoned the west to wage holy war in Syria and
call for homegrown attacks in the United States has told how she lied to her
family and cashed in her tuition money to flee the West.

Hoda Muthana, 20, spoke out about her decision to ditch her life as a college
student in Hoover, Alabama, after being persuaded by terrorists that it was her
duty as a Muslim.

Now the radicalized former student has called for drive-by shootings in America
on Memorial Day and for blood to be spilled.

Mu Muthana, who lived with her moderate Muslim family until she fled to Raqqa,
Syria, revealed her path to terror in an interview with BuzzFeed News.

Scroll down for video

She told reporter Ellie Hall that she conspired for months with other jihadists
to hatch a plan to flee her parents, who kept a strict watch over her and her
sister.

Muthana was not named in full by Buzzfeed, but her identity was revealed on
Monday by the  Birmingham News.

After a year of planning, she fled in November, spending money meant for college
tuition on a flight to Turkey.

From there she fled to Syria and, after a month, married an Australian jihadist,
Suhan Abdul Rahman who was reportedly since been killed in an airstrike by the
Jordanian military.

Despite pleas from her family to come home, Muthana is resolute and claims it is
the duty of all true Muslims to join her and wage war on the West.

Her father told BuzzFeed: 'I believe she been brainwashed. She's not that kind
of girl. They brainwashed her.'

During the interview, Muthana revealed how she escaped her strict family, who
normally keep a close eye on both their daughters.

She said she enrolled on extra courses at the University of Alabama, where she
studied business, then promptly dropped them to cash in the refund checks.

Eventually she persuaded her family to let her go to Atlanta, Georgia, for the
day for a field trip - which they would usually be reluctant to do.

On the day of the trip she said she had caught the wrong bus home and was stuck
in the city - which is when she caught her flight to the Middle East.

Her panicked family went to look for her, but soon got a follow-up call from
Muthana, then in Turkey, revealing her scheme to leave.

According to a high school friend who spoke to the Birmingham News, Muthana was
a 'quiet' girl 'who kept to herself'.

Jordan LaPorta, who went to Hoover High School with her until they graduated in
2013, added: 'I don't think anybody saw this in her.'

Muthana herself confessed that she had given up on all her American friends by
the time she decided to leave

Instead, she conferred with jihadists online, and posted messages inciting
fellow American Muslims to murder their countrymen.

In one Tweet from a now-deactivated account with the title Umm Jihadi, she
wrote: 'You have much to do while you live under our greatest enemy, enough of
your sleeping!

'Go on drive-bys and spill all of their blood, or rent a big truck and drive all
over them. Veterans, Patriot, Memorial etc Day parades..go on drive by's + spill
all of their blood or rent a big truck n drive all over them. Kill them.' [sic]

Her family noticed her increased devotion to her religion, but assumed she was
simply becoming a more ardent follower of the peaceful strain of the religion
which they observe.

As Muthana observed: 'They liked the change until they saw me getting "jihadi".'

According to Muthana's father, the FBI is investigating his daughter - but the
agency said its policy is not to confirm or deny any activity.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 21, 2015 Tuesday 10:10 AM GMT

Pakistan set to host ODI series for first time since terror attack on Sri Lanka
team bus six years ago

BYLINE: PA REPORTER

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 254 words



     ·    Zimbabwe have reportedly agreed to visit Pakistan for ODI series in
          May
     ·    Pakistan have not played host to major cricket series since 2009
     ·    There have been security fears since Sri Lanka were victims of terror
          attack
     ·    Team bus was targeted by gunmen in Lahore, and eight people were
          killed


Pakistan appear set to host Test-playing opposition in their home country for
the first time in more than six years.

Zimbabwe have reportedly agreed to travel for a short one-day international
series next month, likely to take place in Lahore and Karachi.

No tourists have played in Pakistan because of security fears since the
terrorist attack on Sri Lanka's team bus in Lahore in March 2009 - when six
policemen and two civilians died, and several of the tourists were injured.

'Home' Test and ODI series' in the meantime have taken place in the United Arab
Emirates, England's destination for the second time this autumn, a tour for
which an exact schedule is still to be confirmed.

The details of Zimbabwe's proposed trip are also not yet known.

But Pakistan Cricket Board president Shaharyar Khan has stated that, after
discussions with his Zimbabwean opposite number Wilson Manase, he expects the
short tour to go ahead.

Shaharyar said: 'He (Manase) told me they are coming and they are coming with
their full team - but (just) for a week.

'They will send a security team to assess the situation, following which they
will confirm the tour. So they will come in the middle of May, and our efforts
will be to host matches in Lahore and Karachi.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 21, 2015 Tuesday 1:37 AM GMT

Evil night stalker rapist dubbed 'every woman's living nightmare' is jailed for
six sex attacks in 28-year reign of terror

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD, CRIME CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words



     ·    Clive Howard, 57, preyed on lone women on Norfolk and Cambridge
          streets
     ·    He was jailed for life after final victim was able to describe his
          Volvo car
     ·    Jessica Howard, 23, was returning from a night out when he raped her
     ·    Since he was found guilty 15 more potential victims have come forward


A university student attacked by a serial rapist confronted him in court
yesterday to say he had taken away 'every piece of joy' in her life.

Jessica Howard, 23, denounced 'night stalker' Clive Howard, 57, for his string
of assaults on six women over 28 years.

She told him that the catastrophic impact of his attack could never be put into
words and has destroyed her life.

Waiving her right to anonymity, the student - who is not related to the rapist -
said he had 'humiliated' her and ruined precious relationships with those
closest to her.

'You have made it impossible for me to enjoy moments of happiness. Your attack
literally darkens every piece of joy I have,' she told him.

'Because of you, my body is now worthless to me. You took away all of my
control, took away all meaning to my body other than an inanimate object with no
worth.'

The dramatic confrontation came as Howard was jailed for a minimum of ten years
and three months after admitting seven rapes, one attempted rape and three
kidnappings.

Described as 'every woman's living nightmare', he prowled the streets of
Cambridge and Norwich looking for victims. The mechanic, a father-of-six who
lives with his parents in Battisford, Suffolk, picked up some in his Volvo
estate and pounced on others in parks.

Yesterday detectives revealed 15 other women have come forward since Howard
appeared in court last year to say he also attacked them.

Norwich Crown Court heard that Miss Howard was picked up by the rapist after a
night out in Norwich last May.

He drove her to an isolated car park and raped her. She managed to stagger away
half-naked and was rescued by a taxi driver who drove her to a friend. Police
discovered CCTV footage which captured images of his car after the attack and
driving around Norwich city centre earlier in the evening.

Separately, a DNA sample matched the unsolved case of a woman who was the victim
of an attempted rape in Cambridge almost exactly one year earlier.

The woman, aged in her 30s, managed to scratch Howard as she fought him off,
trapping vital forensic evidence under her fingernails. It later emerged he had
tried to force another woman into his car on the same night and two other women
in the city three months earlier.

As their investigation widened, police traced a woman who told them Howard had
raped her at least six times in Suffolk, starting in 1986.

Miss Howard, who is originally from Essex and is studying history of art and
literature at the University of East Anglia, sat just yards from Howard as she
addressed him.

Reading an open letter, she said: 'To describe the ramifications of you raping
me is impossible. I cannot put the full extent into words. I trusted you to take
me home. Still, I blame myself for being raped, for getting into your car.

'I had to see my mother's face as she looked at her only daughter after she had
been violated in the worst possible way.'

She added: 'On top of this you have ruined my relationships with friends and
family. Friends who do not know how to react have removed themselves from my
life. Some ignore it as if it doesn't matter.

'How am I supposed to enter into a happy relationship, to have a happy life with
the stigma of what you have done tormenting me? How am I meant to have a family
if I always remember what you did, the sickening belief still stirring in my
stomach that it was my fault.'

Sentencing him, Judge Stephen Holt described Miss Howard's statement as
'heart-rending' and said the 'effect you had on her life is devastating'.

He added: 'This was a campaign of sexual offences for many years. You did severe
psychological harm to your victims. Two describe you spanking them - this is
additional humiliation and degradation. There was clearly a significant degree
of planning and targeting.'

Outside court, Detective Sergeant Chris Burgess described Howard as a 'dangerous
predatory loner' who frequented dating websites and used prostitutes.

He said: 'There is concern there are further victims out there and we would
encourage anybody who believes they were attacked by him to come forward.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday

Five prosecutors to probe Kenyan university terror attack

LENGTH: 391 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on
22 April

Nairobi, Kenya - Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko has appointed
five prosecutors to assist in investigation into Garissa University College
terror attack.

This follows Tuesday's request by the Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph
Nkaissery that the DPP sends a team to help in the probe. Nine top security
commanders of Garissa County have been interdicted over the attack and may be
prosecuted over various charges once investigations into their conduct ahead of
the attack prove there was negligence. "I am convinced of the need for thorough
investigations into the terrorist attack on the Garissa University College to
establish possible criminal culpability of individual officers or relevant
security committees," said Nkaissery.

Those suspended include the regional coordinator Ernest Mwinyi, County
Commissioner Njenga Miiri, the County AP commander Christopher Muthee, CID boss
Musa Yego, police county commander Charles Wambugu and the sub county AP
commander John Cheruiyot. Others include the local head of Anti-Terror Police
Unit Mutuku Kimanzi, OCPD Benjamin Ongombe and Deputy OCS Charles Ayoro.

Nkaissery said Inspector General of police Joseph Boinnet would appoint an
investigating team that will work with DPP to carry out investigations and take
necessary steps as soon as possible. The CS took the action after two teams he
and Boinnet had appointed presented their reports on the attack. The teams
wanted to establish why the attack took place despite the fact that security
officials there had been alerted. The team noted there was rampant corruption
and smuggling of refugees in the area, which affects security.

The team noted that a day before the attack, only four police officers had been
deployed to guard the Garissa University. The County Intelligence and Security
Committee (CISC) had received information that the college was among the areas
that the Al-Shabab were planning to attack.

The CISC had recommended that eight police officers be deployed to the areas
named as terrorist targets but this did not happen due to the shortage of police
officers.

Some 148 people including 142 students were killed in the attack that was staged
by four terrorists on 2 April.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 22 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 4;
                                National Edition

WITNESSES' TERROR DURING ATTACK;
? Jury hears of threat to break victim's back as he lay dying on floor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


Amanda Howard was 'petrifying' to be around at times, according to a witness on
the second day of her murder trial yesterday. She is in the dock accused of
killing Gerry Nott in Broadwell.

Full story P5

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2015 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     April 22, 2015 Wednesday 12:49 PM GMT

French police foil 'imminent' terror attack in Paris;
Interior minister announces arrest of student after stash of weapons found in
car and lodgings

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 544 words


French security services have prevented an "imminent" terrorist attack in Paris
and arrested a suspected Islamic extremist, according to the interior minister.

The suspect, a university student who appeared to have shot himself in the leg,
was taken into custody on Sunday after an arsenal of weapons was found in his
car and his lodgings.

The cache of arms included four "Kalashnikov-style" automatic weapons,
bullet-proof vests, several police armbands and the detailed plans of several
Parisian police stations.

"A terrorist attack was foiled on Sunday morning," Bernard Cazeneuve, the
interior minister, said on Wednesday. "The police discovered an arsenal of
weapons of war. A document was also found showing without any doubt that the
individual was planning to imminently carry out an attack. The suspect was
immediately taken into custody." Cazeneuve said the man appeared to be targeting
one or two churches.

Police said they were alerted at 8.50am on Sunday, when a man called the
ambulance service. He was found bleeding heavily from a bullet in the leg on a
pavement in the 13th arrondissement of Paris.

The IT student gave a confused account of how he came to be shot. After
following a trail of blood to a vehicle parked nearby, officers found a stash of
weapons, including a Sig-Sauer police pistol that had been reported stolen.

The suspect, aged 24, admitted being the owner of the car. In a search of his
student room, police found more weapons, maps and other suspicious material. The
man, who has not been named, admitted he was planning an attack on "one or two
churches" in Villejuif, a suburb of Paris, the same day, Cazeneuve told
journalists.

"The individual had been reported to police as having a plan to leave for
Syria," Cazeneuve added. He said the home of the suspect's sister had also been
searched.

The suspect is also being questioned about the killing of a fitness teacher
found in the passenger seat of a car in Villejuif in southern Paris. Aurélie
Châtelain, who had a five-year-old daughter, was found on Sunday morning in the
passenger seat of her car with three bullets in the head. She had just finished
a pilates class. Experts say DNA traces links the man with the murder.

Le Monde said the man had settled in France from Algeria in 2009 and was allowed
to stay under the "regrouping of families" rules. Cazeneuve said he had been
under surveillance since 2014 when he made it known he wished to go to Syria to
join jihadis there. He disappeared in February this year and was found to have
spent a week in Turkey. He was arrested, briefly held, and given a warning on
his return, but his profile was not thought to justify further action beyond
circulating a security warning.

The French prime minister, Manuel Valls, said on Wednesday: "Our country, like
others, this last few weeks is facing an unprecedented terrorist threat. The
terrorists are targeting France to divide us. The response must be to protect
our citizens but also to unify.

France heightened surveillance of potential attackers and boosted to about
10,000 the number of troops patrolling sensitive sites after Islamist militants
killed 17 people in January in attacks on the offices of the Charlie Hebdo
satirical weekly and a Jewish food shop.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     April 22, 2015 Wednesday 10:05 AM GMT

Terror plot to attack Christian churches in Paris foiled after suspect
'accidentally shot himself';
An alleged Islamist was arrested as officials said the attack was 'imminent'

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 300 words


A planned terror attack on Christian churches has been foiled in Paris, French
police say.

An alleged Islamic extremist has been arrested by security services who said
they prevented the man from "imminently" carrying out his plans on Sunday.

The 24-year-old computer science student has lived in France for several years
and had been under surveillance for months.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French Interior Minister, said the suspect was also
accused of killing a woman shortly before he was detained.

He reportedly shot himself accidentally in the leg but survived and called an
ambulance to a street in the 13th Arondissement.

Mr Cazeneuve said police discovered an "arsenal" of weapons in his car after
attending the call at around 8.30am on Sunday.

The man claimed he was the victim of an attempted robbery but officers following
a trail of blood to his vehicle found a Kalashnikov, pistol and police armbands
alongside notes on potential targets,Le Parisien reported.

Subsequent searches in his flat uncovered three automatic rifles, handguns,
bulletproof vests and flashing lights similar to those used by the Paris police.

Evidence on the suspect's Facebook account suggested he was targeting "one or
two" churches in the Villejuif district on the same day, Mr Cazeneuve said.

The French-Algerian suspect is also accused of murdering 32-year-old Aurelie
Chatelain, who was found shot dead in her car in the same area on Sunday
morning.

A security official said the pilates instructor appeared to have been killed by
the suspect at random, possibly after he attempted to hijack her car.

French has been on high alert since the Charlie Hebdo massacre in January and
attack on a kosher supermarket by Islamic extremists that left 20 people dead.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     April 22, 2015 Wednesday 10:43 PM GMT

Is this the photo that will kill him? Footage of Boston Bomber flipping off
camera three months after terror attack is released

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2604 words



     ·    The image of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev flipping off a camera in his jail cell
          was first shown in court on Tuesday
     ·    It wasn't released to the public until Wednesday though, when it was
          entered into evidence
     ·    Prosecutors say the image is evidence that Tsarnaev is unrepentant for
          his crimes and therefore deserving of the death penalty
     ·    However, defense attorneys for the convicted 21-year-old terrorist
          said Wednesday that the still from the CCTV footage was taken out of
          context
     ·    The prosecution called forward more victims of the attack to give
          their recollections of the bombing on Wednesday
     ·    Relatives of college student Lingzi Lu and police officer Sean Collier
          also spoke about their lives cut short by the bombing and its
          aftermath


This jarring image of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev flipping off a camera three months after
his arrest may be the nail in the coffin on his chances of avoiding the death
penalty - but defense attorneys for the convicted terrorist say it was taken out
of context.

Prosecutors showed the never-before-seen image of the terrorist in court on
Tuesday, during their opening statements, but it wasn't released to the public
until Wednesday when it was entered into evidence.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini said the striking image was Tsaranev's
'message to America' and evidence that he is unrepentant for the crime and
therefore deserving of the death penalty.

Scroll down for video

Over the next several weeks,  jurors in the case will be hearing more
testimonies from victims and family members impacted by the attack that killed
three and injured more than 250 as they decide whether to sentence 21-year-old
Tsarnaev to life in prison or the death penalty.

The release of the image on Wednesday was certainly a battle lost for defense
attorneys who have been trying to paint Tsarnaev as a secondary player in the
attacks, which they say were masterminded by his extremist older brother
Tamerlan.

In the picture, Tsaranev wears an orange jumpsuit and puts on a cocky image,
offensively flipping off a video camera and puckering his lips in his cell on
the day of his arraignment.

Clearly upset with the use of the picture, defense attorney Miriam Conrad fought
to have the full clip of Tsarnaev's stay in a federal courthouse jail cell
played for the court on Wednesday to show the full context the still was taken
from.

The video was taken in July 2013, three months after Tsarnaev's arrest, when he
was brought to Boston federal court for his first court appearance.

At the beginning of the video, Tsarnaev is seen being led into his jail cell
shortly after 11am. Reporters who were in court to watch the clip said Tsarnaev
appears complaint as officers take off his restraints and leave him alone in the
cell.

When Tsarnaev notices the camera in the corner, he walks up to it and appears to
use the reflective glass as a make-shift mirror, tidying his hair.

A few minutes later he gets up on a bench to inspect the camera further, and
this is when he is seen flipping off the camera. However, right before flashing
the offensive sign, he puts up his fingers in a peace sign. He then quickly
gestures the middle finger and goes back to sit down.

The clip ends with Tsarnaev going to the front of the cell to speak to someone
in the hall, and then to the back where the toilet is.

Conrad also called US Marshal Gary Oliveira to the stand as a witness. He was
the officer watching Tsarnaev on the surveillance feed that day and said he was
later ordered to write a report about the incident by his superiors.

He says he usually writes incident reports on the day they happen, but wrote the
report about Tsarnaev flipping off the camera two days later after receiving the
direct command.

In her opening statements on Tuesday, Assistant U.S. attorney Nadine Pellegrini
said the photo was evidence that Tsarnaev was and is not repentant for his
crimes.

Pellegrini also told the jury not to be swayed by the defense's explanations for
why Tsarnaev carried out the attack with his brother.

'You're going to hear tales of family dysfunction, but that's true of millions
of people who do not go on to murder a child.

'He's simply callous and indifferent to human life. It's his character that
makes the death penalty appropriate and just,' Pellegrini said.

As the penalty phase continued on Wednesday, the prosecutors called more victims
to the stand to testify, as well as the family members of Sean Collier and
Lingzi Lu, both killed by the Tsarnaevs.

Perhaps some of the most heartbreaking testimonies came from Jinyan Zhao, the
aunt of victim Lingzi Lu who was one of three Boston Marathon spectators killed
in the blasts.

The Cranston, Rhode Island resident testified on behalf of Lingzi's parents who
were 'too devastated' to travel to the U.S. and speak in court.

According with Chinese law to control population, Lingzi was an only child and
therefore her loss is especially difficult for per parents who thought of her as
the 'center' of the family. Zhao said Lingzi's mother had become so depressed
after her death, she sometimes can't get out of bed.

Zhao explained that Chinese parents sacrifice a lot for their children, and that
children in return take care of their parents in old age. But that's a kind of
care that Lingzi's parents will now never get.

Zhao also shared several pictures of Lingzi, including photos from a trip to
California and Lingzi celebrating a birthday. The court got to see the book
Lingzi's grandfather wrote about her, titled 'Boston Remembering a Chinese
Girl'.

When Lingzi came to the U.S. in August 2012 to study at Boston University, Zhao
says she picked her up at the airport and helped her move into her new
apartment.

Over the months, the two became close and Zhao watched as her 'bubbly' niece
became enchanted with all things American like pumpkin pie and Disney.

She also said that Lingzi loved Boston, a city she thought was so beautiful
'like a picture'.

The last time she saw Lingzi was the Friday before the marathon, and says she
had no idea her niece would be attending the race that day.

It wasn't until Boston police called to say Lingzi was dead, that Zhao even knew
she was downtown that day.

Lingzi's parents immediately flew over from China, and Boston University helped
with their tickets,

They decided not to bring her body back to China, since she planned to live in
the U.S.

Zhao says she went shopping with LIngzi's mother, who wanted to bury her
daughter in an extravagant dress 'like the bride she would never be'.

They went to a bridal store where they picked out a pink gown and matching
tiara, and buried her with a music box and some of her favorite books.

Zhao remembers the moment Lignzi's mother touched her dead daughter's hand and
said: 'I don't want to believe that this is her hand.'

The court also got to see video of the speech Lingzi's father gave at a memorial
service in her honor at BU.

In front of a packed auditorium at the school, Zhao spoke in Chinese as a voice
translated his speech into English for the crowd.

He called his daughter a star, like Shirley Temple, who loved being around her
family and was anxious to get out and see the world.

'Lingzi you are simply the best,' he said.

Finishing the speech, Lingzi's father bowed to the crowd which responded with a
round of applause.

Two victims who were permanently scarred by the bombing also took to the stand
today.

Adrianne Haslet-Davis, a former ballroom dancing instructor, spoke about the day
her whole world changed when she lost a leg in the attack.

The 34-year-old says she went to the marathon on April 15, 2013 with her husband
Adam, and wore a pair of platform heels because she 'was trying to look cute
for' him.

But the shoes caused her feet to ache, and the couple decided to leave early -
walking right into the path of the first bomb.

I thought that because I couldn't hear myself scream that I was dead.  Adrianne
Haslet-Davis, victim

'I knew right off the bat it was a terrorist attack, though I don't know why. I
said to my husband "the next one's gonna hit,"' Haslet-Davis recalls.

And she was right. A moment later the second bombd went off and Haslet-Davis
remembers screaming but not being able to hear her own voice.

'I thought that because I couldn't hear myself scream that I was dead,'
Haslet-Davis said.

Husband Adam dropped down to aide his wife laying on the ground, but he too was
injured and in shock.

Haslet-Davis remembers trying to crawl away from the scene, her forewarms being
torn to shreds by the shattered glass on the ground.

All the while, she could feel detaching pieces of her leg and foot dragging
behind her.

Haslet-Davis and her husband then got separated as paramedics transported her to
the hospital first, since her injuries were more serious.

Still, she was convinced she left her husband for dead since he had lost a lot
of blood and was growing pale when she last saw him on Boyleston Street.

At the hospital, Haslet-Davis remembered that her cell phone was in her vest
pocket and she used it to call her parents in Seattle - wanting to tell them
about the attack before they could hear about it on the news and panic.

Talking about the emotional phone call brought the jury forewoman and another
juror to tears.

Luckily, both Haslet-Davis and her husband survived the attack. But she says
that day has impacted them both in ways they will never be able to fully heal
from.

Haslet-Davis lost a leg, but continues to dance with a prosthetic. Her husband
also lost chunks from both of his calves and has a constant ringing in his ears.
At the end of her testimony, Haslet-Davis revealed the fact that her husband is
'bravely' seeking treatment at a veteran's mental hospital.

Fellow bombing victim Eric Whalley also spoke Wednesday morning, limping as he
walked up to the stand.

Whalley and his wife of 45 years Ann, were walking by the Forum restaurant on
marathon day when 'there was just an almighty boom'.

He says he lost consciousness and woke up and felt his pants burning.

Prosecutors then showed pictures of Whalley on the day of the attack, with one
of his eyes looking like it's about to fall out of its socket.

Whalley goes on to talk about how a BB from one of the bombs went straight
through his eye and became permanently lodged in his brain.

Like Haslet-Davis, Whalley and his wife were split up and taken to separate
hospitals.

'She thought I was dead and I thought she was dead,' he said.

Their sons eventually found them after seeing their injured parents in photos of
the attack.

The couple spent weeks in the hospital, recovering from their injuries, and
Whalley credits the skilled Boston doctors with saving his eye - though he has
lost sight in it.

The brother and stepfather of slain MIT officer Sean Collier also testified this
afternoon.

Officer Sean Collier was gunned down three days after the bombing as Tsarnaev
and his brother, Tamerlan, were trying to flee.

Collier's stepfather Joseph Rogers says his wife, Collier's mom, became so
distraught by his death that she could not get out of bed for months.

Rogers described a close-knit, blended family that formed when he and Collier's
mother married in 1993. Reynolds said he raised Collier from about the age of 6.

'It was sort of a 'Brady Bunch' situation,' he said.

Reynolds, as well as Collier's younger brother, Andrew, described Sean as a kid
who always had a strong sense of right and wrong, down to putting bugs outside
rather than killing them.

'He was a cop at an early age,' Reynolds said, testifying on the second day of
the penalty phase of the trial.

John DiFava, the MIT Chief who was Collier's boss, told the court that he
started considering quitting law enforcement after dealing with the officer's
death.

'I lost one of my own,' DiFava said.

DiFava spoke in the first phase of the trial, but more about Collier's character
in this court appearance.

He says within five minutes of meeting Collier, he knew the man would make a
perfect fit for the department.

Before stepping off the stand, he said he no longer wants any of his kids to
become police officers because of what happened to Collier.

Tsarnaev was convicted of all 30 charges against him on April 8.

During the penalty phase, the defense is expected to continue portraying
Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, 26, as a domineering follower of radical Islam who
convinced his then 19-year-old brother that America had to be punished for its
wars in Muslim countries. Tamerlan died four days after the bombings when he was
shot during a firefight with police and run over by Dzhokhar during a getaway
attempt.

Several Boston Marathon bombing survivors have spoken out against the death
penalty for Tsarnaev, which would brings years of appeals.

If even one juror votes against the death penalty, Tsarnaev will get a life
sentence.

Judge George O'Toole Jr. told the jury the penalty phase is expected to last
about four weeks.

BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING VICTIMS WEIGH IN ON TSARNAEV SENTENCING

Life in prison

The Richard Family

Bill and Denise Richard lost their youngest son Martin, 8, in the twin
explosions on April 15, 2013. The blast also permanently maimed their daughter,
Jane. But the couple do not want to see Tsarnaev executed.

In an op-ed published in the Boston Globe last week, the couple asked that the
government sign a plea deal to send Tsarnaev behind bars for the rest of his
life, preventing the continued pain 'years of appeals would undoubtedly bring'.

Jessica Kensky and Patrick Downe

Kensky and Downes had only been married a few months when they attended the
Boston Marathon two years ago. Each lost part of their left legs in the attack,
and Kensky eventually had to get her right leg amputated when it didn't heal.

In a statement to the Boston Globe, the couple expressed their opposition to
execution.

'If there is anyone who deserves the ultimate punishment, it is the defendant.
However, we must overcome the impulse for vengeance.'

They call their position 'intensely emotional and profoundly practical.'

On the fence

Rebekah Gregory

The 27-year-old was one of the more than 250 who were injured in the blasts,
losing part of her left leg. On Monday, just days after the two-year anniversary
of the attacks, Gregory finished the Boston Marathon, emotionally collapsing at
the finish line.

In an interview last week, she said she still hadn't made up her mind on what
sentence she would like see handed town to Tsarnaev.

'I feel like he doesn't really care,' Gregory said. 'I think the death penalty
is ultimately what he wants. So I don't know - life in prison alone with your
thoughts - I think that might be... I don't know. I'm glad I'm not the jury.'

Death penalty

Kevin Corcoran

Corcoran nearly lost his wife Celeste and daughter Sydney when he took them to
watch the marathon the day of the attack. Celeste Corcoran lost both of her legs
and Sydney nearly bled to death. Corcoran told the Boston Globe that he's
concerned about the repercussions of keeping Tsarnaev alive, since the
21-year-old might continue to influence and inspire terrorists around the world.

'If he's dead...end of story,' Corcoran said.

However, Corcoran also acknowledged his state's general opposition tot he death
penalty and said he fears he won't see the outcome he wants.

'The political demographic is working against me here in Massachusetts,
unfortunately. I don't believe he will be executed. I can only hope.'

Liz Norden

The single mother's two adult sons Paul and JP Norden each lost a leg in the
blasts. Last week, she spoke out in favor of execution for Tsarnaev.

'He destroyed so many families that day and so many lives... I want the ultimate
justice,' Norden said.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 22, 2015 Wednesday 6:43 PM GMT

Hillary Clinton refuses to answer presidential contest's first questions about
Benghazi terror attack following New Hampshire campaign trip

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1098 words



     ·    Former secretary of state landed Tuesday night at Washington Reagan
          National Airport after a first-class flight from Boston
     ·    Clinton stared ahead wordlessly, walked and didn't acknowledge
          questions as Daily Mail Online asked whether she had made mistakes in
          Benghazi
     ·    Deadly attacks, carried out by an affiliate of al Qaeda, claimed the
          lives of U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other US
          personnel
     ·    Special congressional committee investigating circumstances before and
          after the attacks; its report will come out during 2016 presidential
          campaign
     ·    Questions remain about Clinton's alleged failure to protect her
          diplomatic outpost, and the reasons she cited for the debacle after
          four flag-draped caskets came home
     ·    U.S. intelligence knew at the time that Benghazi personnel were aware
          they were under attack, but Clinton and other Obama administration
          officials blamed an out-of-control protest linked to an anti-Islam
          YouTube video


Former secretary of state Hillary Rodham Clinton got her budding presidential
campaign's first targeted question about the deadly 2012 Benghazi terror attacks
on Tuesday night, and her answer was the sound of one hand clapping.

The bash-the-rich candidate flew first class from Boston to Washington, D.C.
after wrapping up a two-day New Hampshire campaign trip. Daily Mail Online was
on the flight.

'Mrs. Clinton, when are you going to start talking to the press about Benghazi?'
Daily Mail Online asked her in the Washington Reagan National Airport terminal.
'Did you make mistakes?'

The usually garrulous and broad-smiling Clinton stared straight ahead, continued
walking alongside her Secret Service and local police escorts, and said nothing.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Moments earlier, she answered a question about why her taxpayer-funded security
detail had sped at 80 MPH past exits for the smaller Manchester, New Hampshire
airport, and trekked all the way to Boston for a flight with first class seats.

'You know, I don't make the travel arrangements. I don't,' Clinton said.

The Islamist terror group Ansar al-Shariah's military-style Benghazi attacks
will likely be a thorn in Clinton's side throughout the 2016 presidential
campaign season.

The group laid waste to a State Department facility while she was America's top
diplomat.

A special congressional committee chaired by South Carolina Republican Rep. Trey
Gowdy, a former criminal prosecutor, has a mandate to investigate the episode
through January 2017, making it unlikely that Clinton will be able to put the
issue behind her.

On Sunday during a series of 50 brief interviews with Dartmouth College students
in Hanover, New Hampshire, 22 of them made references to Bengahzi when asked
about Clinton's chances of becoming president.

Many of them, like freshman Cameron Poole, weren't old enough to drive when it
happened.

'I think there was blood on her hands,' Poole told Daily Mail Online.

He said he believes Clinton's performance before, during and after should
disqualify her from holding higher office.

'I definitely do,' he said. 'It shows how she acts under pressure.'

Four Americans lost their lives in the September 11, 2012 terror attacks,
including U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens, the first American
ambassador killed while on duty since 1979.

U.S. Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith also perished in
the initial barrage of mortars and automatic weapons fire.

Hours later, a second wave of attacks hit a CIA annex compound nearby, killing
CIA contract soldiers Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty, both U.S. Navy SEALs.

The four men came home in flag-draped caskets.

The fact is we had four dead Americans. Was it because of a protest or was it
because of guys out for a walk one night who decided that they'd they go kill
some Americans? What difference at this point does it make? Hillary Clinton,
speaking to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on January 23, 2013

Congressional Republicans want answers about Clinton's involvement in what they
see as a potential cover-up of facts surrounding how the attacks unfolded and
why - and how the Obama administration explained it afterward, just weeks before
an election.

Part of the swirling controversy involves a home-brew email server that Clinton
exclusively used for her official electronic communications while she was
secretary of state.

Clinton never used an official 'state-dot-gov' email address, but told reporters
on March 10 that she had given the State Department copes of 'official' emails -
and acknowledged deciding herself which ones qualified.

She deleted the rest, some 32,000 messages in all.

Clinton's attorney has refused to hand over the server to congressional
investigators. Gowdy, the Benghazi committee chairman, wants a neutral
third-party to examine it and determine if Benghazi-related emails can be
recovered.

His committee said Wednesday that its report on the Benghazi attacks won't
likely be finished until 2016, putting its release squarely in the middle of the
presidential campaign's most hotly contested months.

But the committee said in a statement that 'Secretary Clinton's decision to seek
the presidency of the United States does not and will not impact the work of the
committee.'

Clinton's State Department infamously declined to provide her Benghazi outpost
with the beefed-up security presence its station chief requested in the weeks
preceding the deadly Ansar al-Shariah attacks.

She claimed later that she never saw the requests, insisting that such routine
diplomatic cables would never have made it to her desk, even if they were
addressed to her.

In the days following the attacks, Clinton said publicly that it was the result
of a spontaneous protest over a YouTube video made by an American - a film that
insulted the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Such protests were seen in other Muslim countries, but U.S. intelligence
determined in real-time that the Benghazi attacks were well-organized and easily
traced back to an Islamist terror network.

Months later, following a concussion that delayed her congressional testimony
about Benghazi, she testified in a U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee
hearing.

Just days earlier, lawmakers disclosed that a top U.S. diplomat told them
'everyone' at the American diplomatic outpost in Benghazi knew 'from the
beginning' that they were in the middle of a terrorist attack.

'The fact is we had four dead Americans,' Clinton told the senators. 'Was it
because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who
decided that they'd they go kill some Americans?'

'What difference at this point does it make?'

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      April 22, 2015 Wednesday 1:54 PM GMT

Paris murder suspect 'was hours away from terror attack'

BYLINE: Adam Sage, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 388 words


The spectre of terrorism hung over Paris once more today following the arrest of
an Islamist radical suspected of murdering a female fitness coach and planning
attacks on churches.

The man, arrested on Sunday, is accused of shooting dead Aurélie Châtelain, 32,
in her car outside Paris last week, the government said today.

Police believe he wanted to use her vehicle for a terrorist action.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said the suspect was preparing an
"imminent attack" on one or two churches.

The arrest comes three months after 20 people died, including three terrorists,
in a series of shootings in and around Paris, notably at Charlie Hebdo, the
satirical weekly, and at a Jewish supermarket.

RTL radio said the latest terror plot in the French capital was stopped when the
suspect was himself shot in the legs in Paris on Sunday.

He said he had been targeted by thieves wanting to steal his bag. Police
describe as confused and incoherent his explanation about the shooting.

Detectives followed a trail of blood leading from the man to his car, which
contained a Kalashnikov, two automatic pistols and a blue light of the sort used
by the police.

They then raided his flat where they discovered three more Kalashnikovs along
with bullet-proof jackets, another blue flashing light and arm bands marked with
the word police.

Mr Cazeneuve said the suspect was planning to attack churches just hours later.
He was placed under arrest after being taken to hospital, where he was being
treated for his injuries.

Officers said the 24-year-old Franco-Algerian student was a known Islamist
radical. He is believed to have spent time in Syria.

Police say his DNA was found at the scene of Mrs Chatelain's murder.

The fitness coach from Caudrey in northern France - the mother of a
five-year-old girl - was shot three times in her Renault Scenic car in
Villejuif, outside Paris.

She was in the capital for a dance lessons and her murder initially mystified
police and relatives.

Now she appears to been a random victim of terrorism.

Her body was discovered by fire officers called to the scene because the vehicle
was on fire.

The fire started when her mobile phone, which was plugged into the vehicle,
overheated, according to police.

It is not clear why her killer failed to steal her car as he apparently
intended.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan police dismiss reports of looming terror attack southeast of capital

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 23 April

Police in Machakos [southeast of Nairobi] have dismissed reports of an impending
terror attack in the country.

Speaking with the Star in his office yesterday, AP [Administration Police] boss
Joseph Keitany said the reports are nothing to go by.

He said security has been beefed up in all areas mentioned as targets.

Keitany said police are investigating the source of the reports that have been
circulated on social media.

"The reports have been circulating on Whatsapp and other social media sites
since Sunday [19 April]," he said.

The AP boss called on the public to share information on any suspects they think
could be linked to terrorism.

He called on visitors to feel free to move around the county as security is
assured in all areas.

Residents in Machakos town have been on a high alert since Sunday.

Spots allegedly targeted by the terrorists include Naivas Supermarket.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 23 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 11:31 AM GMT

France 'foiled five terror attacks'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 215 words


Five extremist attacks have been thwarted in France since a January assault by
Islamic extremist gunmen left 20 people dead, including the attackers, the
French prime minister has said.

Manuel Valls said that the five included one planned attack uncovered on Sunday
when the would-be gunman apparently shot himself in the leg by accident and
called for an ambulance, raising suspicions of the police.

"The threat has never been so significant," Mr Valls said as he pressed for
passage of a measure that would give the government increased surveillance
powers and give wider leeway for prosecutors.

Authorities say the 24-year-old Algerian arrested in Paris on Sunday was
targeting one or more churches. The computer science student had been flagged as
a security risk this year and in 2014, but managed to secure an arsenal of
weapons.

He is also linked to the death of young Frenchwoman Aurelie Chatelain, whose
bullet-riddled body was discovered on Sunday morning inside her burning car in
the same Paris suburb as the targeted church.

"The threat was there, the plan was to act, there was a death - Aurelie
Chatelain - and we cannot keep that a secret. We have to be lucid. We have to
look reality in the face," Mr Valls said.

He did not detail the other planned attacks or how they were thwarted.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 6:45 PM GMT

Brit schoolboy, 14, charged over terror attack and beheading plot

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 379 words


A 14-YEAR-OLD British boy has been charged with terrorism offences over an
alleged plot to attack a World War One ceremony.

The teen was first arrested in Blackburn, Lancs on April 2.

He was held by cops again on Saturday on suspicion of "being concerned in the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism".

Today the Crown Prosecution Service has charged him with two counts including
inciting a terror attack at an Anzac parade and a beheading in Australia.

The 14-year-old - who is still legally a child - is believed to be one of the
youngest people ever charged under terrorism legislation in the UK.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "The decision to prosecute has been taken in accordance with the
Code for Crown Prosecutors.

"We have determined that there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect
of conviction and that a prosecution is in the public interest."

Counter-terrorism officers in Australia arrested two teenagers on Saturday on
suspicion of planning an attack at an Anzac Day ceremony in Melbourne.

Deborah Walshdeputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution Service

The plot allegedly targeted police officers.

Annual Anzac Day ceremonies commemorate the Australian and New Zealand Army
Corps' First World War battle in Gallipoli.

This year they take on extra significance as it is 100 years since the battle.

Greater Manchester Police said: ""On April 2, 2015, following the examination of
a number of electronic devices, the North West Counter Terrorism Unit and
officers from Lancashire Constabulary executed a warrant at an address in
Blackburn, Lancashire.

"As part of this investigation, officers from North West Counter Terrorism Unit
uncovered communication between a teenager in Blackburn and a man in Australia.

"Information was subsequently passed to Australian authorities."

The teenager will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court tomorrow, April 24,
accused of two offences of inciting terrorism overseas.

Related articles Teen jailed for 22 years for plot to behead Brit soldier like
Lee Rigby Four men arrested over 'Islamic State recruitment plot' British boy
aged 14 arrested over terrorist plot to attack a war ceremony

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Islamist 'was plotting terror attacks on Paris churches'

BYLINE: Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 465 words


AN ISLAMIST extremist was arrested in France yesterday charged with murdering a
fitness instructor and planning to carry out a terrorist attack on at least one
Paris church later the same day.

The 24-year-old French-Algerian's plans were exposed on Sunday morning after he
called an ambulance over a bullet wound to his leg. French media reported that
he had shot himself by mistake.

The man, named by the French press as Sid Ahmed Ghlam, said he had been involved
in "a settling of scores".

When police traced the blood back to his car, they found a large arsenal of
loaded guns and detailed plans to attack a Sunday morning congregation.

"Documents were also found and they prove, without any ambiguity, that the
individual was preparing an imminent attack, in all probability, against one or
two churches," said Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, at a press
conference yesterday.

He said Ghlam was responsible for the murder of Aurélie Châtelain, a 33-yearold
fitness instructor, who was found in her car on Sunday morning, having been shot
three times in the shoulder.

Mother to a five-year-old daughter, she was in Paris to attend a pilates class,
and was described by her family in Caudry, 50 miles south of Lille, as "a ray of
sunshine".

DNA at the scene connected Ghlam to Miss Châtelain, said Mr Cazeneuve. In the
man's apartment, in south-eastern Paris, more weapons were found as well as
material linked to Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, al-Qaeda and other
Islamist extremists.

Ghlam's sister was also arrested in the town of Saint-Dizier, near Nancy. She
was living in a tough district of the town, and French media said she too was a
"known radical". Ghlam's girlfriend has also been held for questioning.

Ghlam had moved to France in 2009 to join his family. A computer science
student, he was placed on the "S" list - meaning "Sûreté de l'État", state
security - in 2014, said Mr Cazeneuve.

"The individual had been marked by the police as someone susceptible of leaving
for Syria," said Mr Cazeneuve. Ghlam was known to have travelled to Turkey and
returned, "without giving cause for us to open a judicial inquiry". He was
arrested in Paris's 13th arrondissement, in the centre of the city not far from
Notre Dame, after he called an ambulance. He was waiting outside for first aid
when police arrived at the scene.

France has been on high alert since the January attacks on the Charlie Hebdo
magazine offices and a kosher supermarket in Paris in which 20 people, including
three gunmen, were killed. In that case, two of the Islamists had been flagged
to French intelligence - and the third had been recently released from prison
after serving a sentence involving his ties to Islamic extremists. But
surveillance was called off months before the attack.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aurélie Châtelain, a French fitness instructor, who was allegedly shot
dead by a known Islamist named locally as Sid Ahmed Ghlam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Casualty stunt leaves locals fearing a terror attack

LENGTH: 122 words


A BBC stunt team filming an explosion at 3am sparked fears of a terror attack.

Dramatic scenes for hit drama Casualty left residents of Cardiff worried the
city had been hit by fanatics.

Scores of people called police after being woken by the loud blast in Cardiff
Bay.

Derek Thompson, 67, who plays Charlie Fairhead, said: "One of my neighbours told
me 'We all thought it was al-Qaida'."

Show insiders have revealed a string of major characters will be hurt in the
blast, which will air this summer.

Related articles Casualty and Holby City star Rebekah Gibbs dies aged 41
Sunetra's a Strictly Casualty as she crashes out of the ballroom Casualty: Stars
film shock drugs and sex special in Romania

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

France has foiled five terror attacks since the Hebdo massacre, says PM

BYLINE: Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 185 words


FIVE terrorist attacks have been foiled in France since the Charlie Hebdo
massacre in Paris, the country's Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, revealed today.
His comments follow the arrest of Sid Ahmed Ghlam, 24, who was allegedly
preparing to attack Catholic churches in the Parisian suburb of Villejuif.

Mr Valls said: "Numerous attacks had already been foiled - five if you take into
account the attack which happily did not take place at Villejuif."

Ghlam was caught on Sunday after accidently shooting himself in the leg
following his alleged murder of Aurelie Chatelain, 33, a fitness instructor.

The student's profile is similar to the three Parisians, linked to al Qaeda and
Islamic State, who killed 17 people around the French capital in January.

Amedy Coulibaly and brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi murdered staff at the
offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, as well as police officers and four
Jews, before being shot dead.

Police are now hunting for at least two accomplices linked to Ghlam, who moved
to France in 2009 from Algeria. Prosecutors believe he was in contact with an IS
radical in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 1:13 PM GMT

French Prime Minister reveals country has foiled five terror attacks since
January's Charlie Hebdo massacre - including one just this weekend

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN IN PARIS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words



     ·    Manuel Valls said France is facing an unprecedented threat from
          terrorism
     ·    'We have never had to face this kind of terrorism in our history,' he
          said
     ·    Comments follow the arrest of 24-year-old student Sid Ahmed Ghlam who
          was allegedly plotting attacks on Catholic churches in Paris
     ·    DNA also reportedly links Algerian to murder of dancer Aurelie
          Chatelain


Five terrorist attacks have been foiled in France since the Charlie Hebdo
massacre in Paris, the country's Prime Minister Manuel Valls said today.

His chilling words follow the arrest of a 24-year-old student who was allegedly
preparing to storm Catholic churches with an armoury of weapons including
Kalashnikov assault rifles.

Discussing the case of Sid Ahmed Ghlam, Mr Valls said: 'Numerous attacks had
already been foiled - five if you take into account the attack which happily did
not take place at [Paris suburb] Villejuif'.

Ghlam, 24, was caught on Sunday after accidently shooting himself in the leg
after allegedly murdering Aurelie Chatelain, a 33-year-old fitness instructor.

He was said to be on his way to a number of churches in the Paris area, ready to
kill as many people as he could.

Ghlam's profile was very similar to the three Al Qaeda and Islamic State linked
Parisians who killed 17 people around the French capital in January.

They murdered staff including cartoonists from the anti-Muslim satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo, as well as police officers and four Jews, before being
killed themselves.

Police are now hunting for at least two accomplices linked to Ghlam, who moved
to France in 2009 from Algeria, its former north African colony.

Prosecutors believe Ghlam was in contact with an IS radical in Syria, whom they
believe ordered attacks on churches in the Paris area.

The intelligence has led to Mr Valls ordered increased security, including
police and army patrols, around 178 Catholic institutions.

'The threat has never been as high,' Mr Valls told France Inter radio station.
'We have never had to face this kind of terrorism in our history.'

Hundreds of French nationals are said to have joined jihadist ranks in Iraq and
Syria, accounting for almost half the European fighters there, according to
report by the French Senate.

Mr Valls said 1,573 French citizens or residents have been implicated in 'terror
networks', 442 of which were currently in Syria and 97 of whom had died there.

'I want to remind you that seven French citizens have died while carrying out
suicide attacks in Syria or Iraq,' Mr Valls added.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 6:50 PM GMT

France foils FIVE terror attacks since the Charlie Hebdo massacre, Prime
Minister reveals;
The admission follows the arrest of a man, 24, plotting to storm churches in
Paris and security was increased at 178 Catholic institutions

BYLINE: By Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 177 words


Five terror attacks have been foiled in France since the Charlie Hebdo massacre,
reveals its Prime Minister.

The admission follows the arrest of a man, 24, plotting to storm churches in
Paris in a suburb of the French capital with an armoury of weapons including
Kalashnikov assault rifles.

PM Manuel Valls said: "Numerous attacks had already been foiled. Five if you
take into account the attack at Villejuif."

Mr Valls ordered increased security at 178 Catholic institutions.

In January terrorists killed 17 people, including staff at Charlie Hebdo
magazine.

Video: Charlie Hebdo attack

Police are hunting two accomplices in the most recent plot, similar to the three
al-Qaeda and Islamic State-linked Parisians who killed 17 people around the
French capital in January.

They murdered staff including cartoonists from the satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo, as well as police officers and four Jews, before being killed themselves.

Mr Valls said: "The threat has never been as high. We have never had to face
this kind of terrorism in our history."

Terror Horror in Paris

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 6:28 PM GMT

Schoolboy aged 14 from Blackburn charged with inciting terrorist attack and
beheading in Australia;
The teen, who cannot be named, will appear in court tomorrow

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


A British schoolboy has been charged with terrorism offences over an alleged
plot to attack the Anzac Day celebrations in Australia.

The lad, 14, was first quizzed in Blackburn, Lancs. on April 2.

Last Saturday he was held on suspicion of preparing for a "credible terrorist
threat".

Today the Crown Prosecution Service has charged him with two counts including
inciting a terror attack at an Anzac parade and a beheading in Australia.

Deborah Walsh, Deputy Head of Counter Terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "The decision to prosecute has been taken in accordance with the
Code for Crown Prosecutors.

"We have determined that there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect
of conviction and that a prosecution is in the public interest.

"The defendant will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court tomorrow, 24 April
2015.

"May I remind all concerned that the defendant has a right to a fair trial.

"It is very important that there should be no reporting, commentary or sharing
of information online which could in any way prejudice these proceedings.

"For these reasons, it would be inappropriate for me to comment further."

Five men - all aged 18 to 19 - were arrested in Melbourne and one has appeared
in court charged with planning a terrorist act.

Anzac Day is a holiday to mark the Gallipoli landings.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            The National (Scotland)

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday

France: Terror attack suspect 'shot his own leg'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 315 words


AN ISLAMIC extremist with an arsenal of loaded guns was prevented from opening
fire on churchgoers only because he accidentally shot himself in the leg, French
officials said.

The 24-year-old computer science student, who was also suspected in the death of
a young woman whose body was found on Sunday shortly before his arrest, had been
flagged as a risk for intent to travel to Syria but there had been no specific
reason to open a judicial investigation, France's interior minister Bernard
Cazeneuve said.

Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said the suspect - an Algerian who had lived in
France for several years - was arrested in Paris after he apparently shot
himself by accident and called for an ambulance.

He was waiting outside his apartment building for first aid when police arrived.
They followed a trail of blood to his car, which contained loaded guns, and
notes about potential targets.

A search of his apartment in south-east Paris turned up more weapons including
three Kalashnikov assault rifles along with phones and computers that police
used to establish that he'd been in communication with someone "who could have
been in Syria".

This person "explicitly asked him to target a church," Molins said, declining to
answer questions about the investigation into what he termed "an imminent
attack".

Police also found Arabic-language material that mentioned al-Qaeda and the
Islamic State group in the man's apartment. There was no immediate evidence that
the suspect had direct ties to any organised groups.

Police have arrested one person believed to be acquainted with the suspected
gunman in the town of Saint-Dizier, Molins said, but gave no further details.

Aurelie Chatelain, a 32-year-old French woman visiting Paris, was found shot to
death in her car on Sunday. Officials said she appeared to have been killed at
random and ballistics evidence linked her death to the suspect.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      April 23, 2015 Thursday 09:01 AM GMT

Five Terrorist Attacks In France 'Foiled'

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 346 words



HIGHLIGHT: Five terrorist attacks in France have been foiled in recent months,
France's Prime Minister Manuel Valls has revealed.


  The announcement comes after a 24-year-old Franco-Algerian IT student was held
over an alleged plot to attack a church in Villejuif, a commune in the southern
suburbs of Paris.

"Numerous attacks had already been foiled; five if you take into account the
attack which happily did not take place at Villejuif," Mr Valls told radio
station France Inter.

It was not revealed whether the four other plots were linked to the arrested
suspect, named in French reports as Sid Ahmed Ghlam.

Investigators have claimed they found evidence on his computer suggesting he was
in contact with a man in Syria "who clearly asked him to target a church," Paris
prosecutor Francois Molins said.

Alongside the alleged plot to attack the church, Ghlam is also accused of
killing a young woman shortly before his arrest.

Aurelie Chatelain, 32, had been visiting Paris for a work training session when
she was found shot in her car on Sunday morning. Authorities believe she was
killed at random.

Ghlam was detained in Paris over the weekend after he apparently shot himself in
the leg by accident and called for an ambulance, French officials said on
Wednesday.

When he was found, police followed a trail of blood leading back to his car
where they discovered loaded guns and notes about potential targets. A search of
his apartment uncovered more weapons, police said.

The documents "prove, without any ambiguity, that the individual was preparing
an imminent attack, in all probability, against one or two churches," Interior
Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said.

Authorities said the "arsenal of war weapons" included handguns, Kalashnikov
assault rifles, ammunition, and bullet-proof vests.

Ghlam is said to have lived in France for several years and had been "flagged"
by the security services in 2014.

Speaking to Le Parisien newspaper, Ghlam's sister described him as "gentle" and
insisted he was innocent of the murder of Miss Chatelain.

:: Police investigating Ghlam's case arrested a 25-year-old woman in
Saint-Dizier, around 200 miles east of Paris, on Wednesday.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

Pakistani article slams Afghan president blaming Islamic State for terror attack

LENGTH: 1218 words


Text of report by moderate, independent Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website

Text of report by Dr Mohammad Taqi headlined "Afghanistan: will the real IS
stand up?" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 23 April

The Afghan military chief, General Sher Mohammad Karimi, apparently became the
first foreign leader to preside over the passing out parade at the Pakistan
Military Academy, Kakul last week. General Karimi emphasised the need for
"sincere" and robust counterterrorism cooperation between Afghanistan and
Pakistan, and advised caution against letting the "historic opportunity" of
defeating terrorists - whom he described as the "common enemy" - slip through.
He emphasised that the two countries now faced a much graver threat from
"non-state actors" than ever before.

Just as the Afghan military chief was delivering his speech, a suicide bomber
blew himself and at least 36 innocent Afghans to smithereens in Jalalabad,
Afghanistan. Over 100 more were injured, some critically. The Afghan security
agencies prevented additional carnage when they destroyed another bomb in a
controlled detonation. Hapless Afghans had gathered to collect their salaries at
a branch of the Kabul Bank. The heartrending sights and sounds of the Jalalabad
carnage seemed to tarnish the imagery and rhetoric coming out of Kakul.

Curiously, Zabiullah Mujahid - a moniker used by the Afghan Taleban's
spokesperson(s) - swiftly denied any role in Saturday's slaughter, which
otherwise had all the hallmarks of the so-called 'spectacular' attacks the
Taleban and its Haqqani network affiliate have carried out over the years,
including the 19 February 2011 assault on another branch of the Kabul Bank in
Jalalabad. Instead, responsibility for the butchery was accepted by the former
spokesman of the Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP), Shahidullah Shahid, in the
name of Da'ish, the vernacular acronym for Islamic State (IS). This deadly
development has raised concerns about whether IS has eventually mustered enough
terrorist muscle in Afghanistan to pull off something so gruesome. That IS could
not find even a single Afghan to claim responsibility for its first large-scale
brutality inside Afghanistan and has relied on the Pakistani Shahidullah Shahid,
however, immediately raised questions about whether IS has indeed arrived in
Afghanistan and yet another rebranding of cross-border jihadist terrorism was
underway. After all, large sections of the mujahideen legions raised against the
Soviets were herded into what have been known as the Taleban for the last two
decades.

What was rather shocking was that Afghan President Dr Ashraf Ghani also jumped
on the blame IS bandwagon saying that "the Taleban did not claim responsibility
but Da'ish claimed responsibility". What made Dr Ghani throw both caution and
due diligence to the wind is not clear but one possibility remains that pinning
the massacre on IS allows him to (continue to) pursue negotiations with the
Taleban, which otherwise would certainly have been questioned by other Afghan
politicians. The Afghan president played up IS presence in Afghanistan during
his recent US visit too, saying that his country has significance for IS as,
according to them, the "End of Times battle" will be fought there. While he is
right on the importance of Khurasan, i.e. Afghanistan plus some surrounding
regions, in millenarian IS and Taleban jihadist lore, the mythical final battle
is supposed to start in Dabiq (present day Syria), the city after which IS has
named its propaganda periodical. The Afghan president just running with the
jihadist claim that IS carried out the Jalalabad attack is fraught with twofold
risk: a) losing sight of the real and present danger that the Taleban and its
affiliates like the Haqqani network pose, and b) the IS decoy affords tremendous
plausible deniability to the Taleban and their patrons who can and will continue
lethal attacks that strengthen their bargaining position vis-a-vis the Afghan
government, without taking any flak from the public and international powers.

Dr Ashraf Ghani's own deputy intelligence chief, Hesamuddin Hesam, took the
alleged IS claim with a grain of salt and told the Afghan parliament that "there
are two types of IS: one that operates in Syria and one that is in Afghanistan.
In Afghanistan, they are the same old Taleban who have swapped their white flag
with black and have become more swift and deadly." The former Afghan
intelligence chief, Amrullah Saleh, was much more blunt when he tweeted, "By
attributing the 18/04/15 massacre at Jalalabad to IS, Pak and Taleban can't
cleanse themselves and fool Afghans. They are culprits and guilty." In another
tweeted message, Saleh squarely criticised what he called President Ghani's
"appeasement policy" towards Pakistan and the Taleban, and pinned the blame on
Pakistan's intelligence apparatus. Mr Saleh is not alone in his criticism of
Ghani's policies as several Afghan political leaders are becoming increasingly
antsy with what they perceive as their president's misplaced trust in their
eastern neighbour's leadership, which has failed to show convincingly that it
has meaningfully restrained the jihadist elements operating from across the
Durand Line.

A less likely possibility is that elements of the Taleban wish to sabotage the
newfound bonhomie between the Pak-Afghan leadership. The exponential rise in
Taleban violence from Helmand in the Afghan south to as far as Faryab in the
northwest indicates, however, that the jihadists are mounting cohesive and
militarily well-planned attacks. The Jalalabad massacre bearing the Haqqani
network signature was no exception. Even before the name IS ever popped up, the
Taleban and its affiliates have at times denied responsibility for their vicious
attacks in which the civilian toll was very high; the current instance would
likely turn out to be just that. Dr Ashraf Ghani will perhaps realise sooner
rather than later that the black flags of IS are actually the red herring that
serve the Taleban and their patrons very well in the time of flux and when all,
especially the international powers, expect the peace talks to go through. It is
becoming increasingly clear that, notwithstanding its claims to the contrary,
Pakistan has not been able to nudge the Afghan Taleban to the negotiating table,
which raises serious questions about both its will and capacity to do so.

Is there any likelihood that 'IS central' will eventually take hold in
Afghanistan? Barring an unforeseen sudden collapse of the Afghan state and its
national security forces, the answer is no! At the present time there exists
neither a command or control structure of IS in Afghanistan nor any proven
connection of the copycat groups of that terrorist monstrosity hounding Iraq and
Syria. Dr Ashraf Ghani allowing - indeed magnifying manifold - the claims of a
virtually non-existent entity for a ruthless terrorist attack imperils not only
the already beleaguered Afghan people but also his own political credibility.
The Afghan president asking the real IS to rise also runs the risk of Da'ish in
Afghanistan becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy. Hopefully, the Afghan leader
will vet such claims in future before lending them credence.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 23 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

French police hunting for accomplices in foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report by Paris-based commercial station Radio Monte Carlo on 23 April

[Report by 'M. R.,' Celine Martelet: "Foiled Assault: Police Interested in
University Residence Hall's Video Surveillance System"]

Foiled assault: The police are interested in the university residence hall's
video surveillance system. "Sid Ahmed Ghlam could not have been acting alone,"
Prime Minister Manuel Valls said this Thursday. The investigators are thus
looking for his accomplices, as also suggested by some of the footage from the
video surveillance system at the hall where Sid Ahmed Ghlam was living. The
probe is making headway. A close associate of Sid Ahmed Ghlam's was apprehended
on Wednesday and interrogated at 36, Quai des Orfevres, the crime police
headquarters, in Paris in connection with the foiled assault on at least one
church that the Algerian-born student arrested on Sunday was gearing up to
perpetrate. However, this is not the only lead they are following up. Indeed,
with Manuel Valls asserting this Thursday that "Sid Ahmed Ghlam could not have
been acting alone," the investigators are taking a particular interest in the
video surveillance system at the hall where Sid Ahmed Ghlam was living. It has a
camera that films the comings and goings between the entrance door and the
elevator.

According to one of the hall's residents with whom we have been able to talk,
three men allegedly feature in the footage shot over the last few days. The
three men are elderly, not students, and they do not live in the hall, although
they came into the hall late at night carrying large bags. All the same, Sid
Ahmed never appears with them in the footage.

Link to Amedy Couibaly?

The investigators are following up another lead as well, at Aulnay-sous-Bois
(Seine-Saint-Denis department), where many French jihadis who have set off to
join ISIL were from. That is where Sid Ahmed Ghlam went to pick weapons up in a
car on 13 and 14 April. It was probably a man living in Syria who told him where
the weapons were to be found.

However, Aulnay-sous-Bois also crops up in another case, the one involving Amedy
Coulibaly, the Montrouge and Hyper Cacher [kosher store] gunman. Indeed, his
wife, Hayat Boumediane, took off for Syria and ISIL a few days prior to the
attacks, a journey she made with the help of the Belhoucine brothers, Medhi and
Mohamed, both of whom came from Aulnay-sous-Bois. Mohamed in particular is known
to the police. He was convicted in 2014 for placing his IT skills at the service
of a jihadi recruitment network.

Source: Radio Monte Carlo, Paris, in French 0000 gmt 23 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 3:12 PM GMT

UK's youngest terror defendant 'told Aussie teen to attack cop'

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 372 words


BRITAIN'S youngest terror defendant appeared in court today accused of inciting
a Lee Rigby-style beheading plot in Australia.

The 14-year-old boy, from Blackburn, allegedly spurred teen Sevdet Besim to
behead or shoot a Melbourne police officer on one of the country's most
important national days.

He is also said to have encouraged the 18-year-old to chop off the head of a
"loner".

Greater Manchester Police alerted Australian police to the alleged conversation
between the two.

Besim was later arrested along with five others.

The accused youngster appeared at Westminster Magistrates Court today wearing a
grey tracksuit.

He bit at his fingernails and spoke quietly only to confirm his name, age and
address.

The boy had private whispered conversation with his lawyer as he gazed
occasional at the packed out press gallery.

Prosecutor Rebecca Ledwidge told the court: "It is alleged that [the defendant]
communicated with an individual in Australia over a secure encryption
application known as Telegram.

"Throughout the communications, it is clear that they were discussing a plan to
attack an Anzac Parade in Melbourne, Australia.'

She added that they discussed to carry out either 'a knife attack on police, or
a 'car op' on police, or a gun attack on police'.

Prosecutor Rebecca Ledwidge

The second allegation related to a plan to behead "a loner" after breaking into
their house, the court heard.

Defence lawyer David King agreed the case should be sent to the Crown Court, as
the allegations constitute 'grave crimes'.

The parents of the boy, who is said to have been from a "respectable family",
had "cooperated completely" with the police investigation, Mr King added.

The court heard how his father had sat with his son through at least 40
interviews with officers.

Mr King said the boy's parents 'are the most concerned and responsible parents
one could ask for'.

The defendant, of, Blackburn, Lancs, is charged with two offences of inciting
terrorism overseas, contrary to section 59 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was remanded in custody and will be held in youth detention accommodation in
the north of England.

He will next appear at the Old Bailey for a preliminary hearing this afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

PRISON STAB TERROR;
Three warders attacked by thug in cell

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 254 words


A VIOLENT inmate launched a vicious knife attack on three prison officers
yesterday.

The 27-year-old, who is serving four years in Mountjoy for aggravated burglary,
unleashed the frenzied assault as warders opened his cell door.

One of the officers will have to undergo extensive plastic surgery after being
slashed in the head, cheek and ear.

The second warder required stitches to the top of his head. A source said: "The
inmate was in a frenzied state and didn't care who he was slicing with the shiv
which he'd made from razor blades."

A third officer was punched a number of times during the early morning melee. It
is understood the thug also tried to slit one of the warder's throats with the
shiv.

The officers were all brought to the Mater Hospital. The inmate had been moved
to the challenging behaviour unit last week after spitting in an officer's face.

Gabriel Keaveny, assistant general secretary of the Prison Officers'
Association, called for more protection for warders.

He said: "For years there have been trained dogs who would help officers.
They're not being used any more. We don't understand it. These animals cost a
small fortune to train, we're talking hundreds of thousands of euro which have
been flushed down the toilet. If it makes the job safer, why has it stopped?"
Deputy general secretary Jim Mitchell added: "Prison Service management do not
understand the challenges faced by officers on the frontline - and this is of
deep concern to us."

garreth.macnamee@irishmirror.ie IRISH MIRROR COMMENT: P14

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE Mountjoy Prison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

France terror attacks foiled

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 29 words


FIVE attacks have been foiled in France since the Paris Charlie Hebdo massacre
in January.

The admission follows the arrest of a man, 24, plotting to storm churches in the
city.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 12:03 AM GMT

France has foiled five terror plots since Charlie Hebdo attack, says French PM;

'Threat has never been so serious,' says Valls as police search for accomplices
of 24-year-old student suspected of planning 'imminent' attack in Paris

BYLINE: Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


French security services have foiled at least five planned terrorist attacks
since Islamic extremists killed 17 people in Paris, including journalists at the
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, according to the prime minister, Manuel
Valls.

"The threat has never been so serious, we have never had to face this kind of
terrorism in all our history," Valls said on Thursday.

His warning came as French police searched for accomplices of an Algerian-born
student suspected of planning an "imminent" terrorist attack in Paris.

The 24-year-old man was still under armed guard in hospital on Thursday. He was
discovered bleeding heavily on a street in a south-east Paris on Sunday morning
having apparently shot himself in the leg.

François Molins, the Paris prosecutor, said the man was believed to have been
planning to attack two churches in the city suburbs.

He said material found at the suspect's home suggested he was in contact with
someone "believed to be in Syria" and with whom he had exchanged messages "on
how to commit an attack". Molins added: "This person had explicitly asked him to
target a church,."

An arsenal of weapons and documents "in Arabic mentioning al-Qaida and Islamic
State" were discovered during a search of the flat and suspect's car, which was
parked near to where he was found, the prosecutor told journalists.

The number of weapons suggest he was not operating alone, said Molins. The
investigation was looking at "who had financed the weapons seized and where they
came from".

Police said a Kalashnikov assault rifle and three spare bullet cartridges, a
police-issue Sig Sauer pistol - reported stolen by an officer - were found in
the suspect's car along with a Sphinx 9mm revolver and a bulletproof vest. At
his studio flat at the university nearby in the 13th arrondissement, a further
three Kalashnikovs and several bulletproof vests were discovered.

Investigators say the first ballistic, DNA and phone tracing records link the
suspect to the death of a 32-year-old woman, Aurélie Châtelain, who was found
dead in the passenger seat of her car with three bullets in the head on Sunday
morning. Molins said the man had no previous criminal record, but was known to
the security services because of his stated wish to join jihadists in Syria.

Police have searched the homes of family members and arrested a 25-year-old
woman.

Molins said the man ranted several times to the police before refusing to speak.
Investigators have been given permission to hold him for a further six days, a
special measure used in cases in which there is a risk of "imminent terrorist
action".

Valls said 1,573 French nationals or people resident in France were "listed as
being implicated in terrorist networks". Of these 442 are believed to be in
Syria where 97 have died.

"The call centre allowing citizens to raise the alarm in cases of radicalisation
has already had more than 2,600 calls of which 630 have been judged very serious
and investigated by the special services," he said, adding that since 2012 "the
threat has not stopped increasing".

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

Teenager in court on terror attack charges

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 155 words


A 14-YEAR-OLD British boy is due to appear in a UK court today, charged with
inciting an attack on an Anzac Day parade in Australia and inciting a beheading.

The teenager was arrested in Blackburn in connection with an alleged plan to
stage an attack at events to mark the centenary of the First World War Anzac
landings.

He will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court accused of two offences of
inciting terrorism overseas.

Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution
Service, said he is alleged to have incited another person to commit an act of
terrorism between 15 and 26 March this year in Australia with "the aim of
killing and/or causing serious injury."

He is also alleged to have incited another person, on 18 March to behead someone
in Australia.Counter-terrorism officers in Australia arrested two teenagers on
Saturday on suspicion of planning an attack at an Anzac Day ceremony in
Melbourne.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

PM: France has foiled five terror attacks

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 120 words


FIVE extremist attacks have been thwarted in France since a January assault by
Islamic extremist gunmen left 20 people dead, including the attackers, the
French prime minister has said.

Manuel Valls said the five included one planned attack uncovered on Sunday when
the would-be gunman apparently shot himself in the leg by accident and called
for an ambulance.

"The threat has never been so significant," Mr Valls said as he pressed for
passage of a measure that would give the government increased surveillance
powers and give wider leeway to prosecutors.

Authorities say the 24-year-old Algerian arrested in Paris is also linked to the
death of a young Frenchwoman whose bullet-riddled body was found inside a
burning car.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

Muslim accused of attack was jailed for a terrorism offence

BYLINE: Simon Bristow; Court Reporter; s.bristow@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: COURT:CROWN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 366  words


A MUSLIM prisoner accused of attacking another inmate over an insult to his
religion was jailed for a terrorism offence, a court heard.

Umar Arshad, 26, is jointly accused with Mahad Ali, 27, of attempting to cause
grievous bodily harm to Simon Richards at HMP Full Sutton, near Pocklington, on
March 24 last year.

Both men deny the offence.

A jury at Hull Crown Court were told of the previous convictions of the accused
and the alleged victim yesterday, as part of a series of facts agreed by the
prosecution and defence.

The court heard Arshad was jailed for six years and nine months in 2013 for
engaging in conduct in preparation for terrorist acts.

He admitted assisting a co-defendant Mohammed Ahmed, to travel to Pakistan to
obtain training.

Arshad helped Ahmed travel to Pakistan knowing he intended to train and possibly
go on to fight in Afghanistan against coalition forces.

He gave him a Pakistani SIM card left over from a family holiday and prepared a
cover story, although this was not adopted by Ahmed.

He also gave him a hat and some clothes (a shalwar kameez), and £100 towards the
cost of the trip.

Ahmed only stayed in Pakistan for two days and did not have any training, the
court was told.

Arshad was also in possession of an online magazine, Inspire, which contained
"radical" articles, as well as other documents touching on jihad, the court
heard.

The judge said he was not dangerous.

Arshad successfully appealed against the sentence, which was reduced to five
years and three months. He was due to be released last December.

Ali had nine convictions for 13 offences and was jailed for life in March 2008
for murder, with a tariff of 22 years.

The court heard he was part of a group of four men who burgled homes in
Bletchley, Milton Keynes, on April  2, 2007.

The owner of one of the properties saw some of the gang start to drive away in
his van and tried to stop them. He suffered fatal head injuries when he fell and
hit his head on the road.

Richards, 33, has 14 convictions for 26 offences.

He was jailed for six years in April 2012 for three counts of robbery against
three men in which a victim had a knife held to his throat and was assaulted
with a dumbell.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INCIDENT: HMP Full Sutton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 4:07 PM GMT

Vatican 'bomb attack': Terrorists linked to Al-Qaeda planned possible attack in
2010;
Pope Francis has said he knows he is a target

BYLINE: Colleen Barry

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 435 words


Suspected Islamic extremists with links to Al-Qaeda planned a terror attack
inside the Vatican in 2010, Italian prosecutors have said.

Wiretaps collected as part of investigation into an Islamic terror network
operating in Italy gave "signals of some preparation for a possible attack" at
the Vatican, prosecutor Mauro Mura told a news conference in Cagliari, Sardinia.

That included the arrival of a suicide bomber in Rome. He eventually left Italy,
Mura said, although it wasn't clear why.

The revelation about the planned attack against the Vatican came as police said
they were arresting 18 suspected extremists, including two purported bodyguards
for Osama bin Laden, accused of staging attacks in Pakistan aimed at stopping
that government's actions against the Taliban.

At the time of the suspected plot to bomb the Vatican, Pope Benedict XVI was
still reeling from the effects in the Muslim world of a 2006 speech in
Regensburg, Germany, in which he quoted a Byzantine emperor who characterized
some of the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad as "evil and inhuman,"
particularly "his command to spread by the sword the faith."

Six million flock to see Pope in Philippines

While relations with the Muslim world were eventually repaired, tensions flared
again in 2011 when Cairo's al-Azhar institute, the pre-eminent theological
school of Sunni Islam, suspended interfaith talks with the Vatican after
Benedict called for greater protections for Egypt's minority Christians.

More recently, Italian officials have made clear they take seriously the threat
of Isis to conquer Rome and the seat of Christianity. Security has been beefed
up at the Vatican and the head of the Swiss Guards has said they are ready but
that they have no information about an imminent threat.

Pope Francis himself has said he realises he may be a target but that he fears
mostly for the innocent crowds who come to see him every time he's in public.

The investigation was launched in 2005, but Mura said it was slowed when news of
the investigation leaked to the media, alerting the suspects that they were
being watched.

Authorities said some of the suspects sought in the probe were responsible for
"numerous bloody acts of terrorism in Pakistan," including the October 2009
explosion in a market in Peshawar in which more than 100 people died. Telephone
wiretaps indicated that two of the suspects were part of a network of people who
protected bin Laden in Pakistan, a police statement said.

Police said the aim of the terror network was to create an insurrection against
the Pakistani government.

AP

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 4:48 PM GMT

British 14-year-old boy remanded in custody after appearing in court charged
with plotting terror attack on Anzac Day commemorations in Australia

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE and GEMMA MULLIN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1120 words



     ·    Teenager is believed to be youngest charged with terror offences in UK
     ·    He is accused of plotting a 'Lee Rigby-style' massacre during Anzac
          Day
     ·    Alleged to have encouraged Sevdet Besim to behead a member of public
     ·    He was remanded in custody and will appear before court in Manchester


A 14-year-old British boy has been remanded in custody after appearing in court
charged with plotting to carry out a terror attack during the Anzac Day
commemorations in Australia.

The teenager from Blackburn, Lancashire, who cannot be named but is thought to
be the youngest person charged with Islamist-related terror offences in the UK,
was arrested last weekend.

He is said to have incited an Australian teenager, Sevdet Besim, to behead, run
over or shoot a police officer in a 'Lee Rigby style' massacre during a ceremony
for fallen soldiers.

He is also alleged to have encouraged the 18-year-old from Melbourne to carry
out another decapitation on a 'loner' in their own home.

Besim was arrested by Australian police after Greater Manchester Police revealed
the extent of communications between the pair.

Five other men have also been arrested by Australian counter-terrorism officers.

The boy appeared at Westminster Magistrates Court today wearing a grey tracksuit
to answer two charges of inciting terrorism overseas, which both date between
March 15 and 26 this year.

He bit his fingernails throughout the hearing and gazed at the packed press
gallery, before having a whispered conversation with his lawyer, and spoke only
to confirm his age, name and address.

The teenager was flanked by two police officers in the dock while a family
member sat in court for the brief hearing.

He was remanded in custody to youth detention accommodation in the north of
England after District Judge Emma Arbuthnot turned down a bail application.

This afternoon he appeared by videolink at the Old Bailey for a preliminary
hearing and spoke only to confirm his first name.

Counsel and the judge appeared in court without their robes and wigs because of
the defendant's young age.

Judge Mr Justice Saunders said the case should be dealt with as soon as possible
because of the defendant's age.

The trial is estimated to last three to four weeks and is due to take place in
August or September in Manchester.

The defendant was remanded in custody and is excused from attending the next
hearing at the Old Bailey on 14 May.

Prosecutor Rebecca Ledwidge told Westminster Magistrates Court at this morning's
hearing: 'It is alleged that [the defendant] communicated with an individual in
Australia over a secure encryption application known as Telegram.

'Throughout the communications, it is clear that they were discussing a plan to
attack an Anzac Parade in Melbourne, Australia.'

Miss Ledwidge said the options discussed were to carry out 'a knife attack on
police, or a "car op" on police, or a gun attack on police'.

The second allegation, Miss Ledwidge said, related to a plan to 'break into
someone's house and behead someone' in Australia.

The boy was said to have 'suggested he [Besim] should pick someone who was a
loner and wouldn't be noticed'.

Defence lawyer David King agreed the case should be sent to the crown court, as
the allegations constitute 'grave crimes' under existing legislation.

Mr King said the boy was from a 'respectable family' and that his father had
conscientiously sat through a total of 40 interviews between his son and
investigators.

'His mother and father have done nothing but cooperate completely with police
and do everything they can.

He said the boy's parents 'are the most concerned and responsible parents one
could ask for'.

District Judge Arbuthnot agreed the case potentially constituted a 'grave crime'
and must be tried at a crown court.

She told the defendant, 'This afternoon, you are going to the Central Criminal
Court for a preliminary hearing. Do you understand all that?'. The boy replied
'yes'.

Deputy Head of Counter Terrorism at CPS, Deborah Walsh, said: 'Following an
investigation by police in the North West Counter Terrorism Unit, we have today
authorised charges for a 14-year-old male of two offences.

'The first allegation is that, between 15 and 26 March 2015, the defendant
incited another person to commit an act of terrorism.

'Namely to carry out an attack at an Anzac parade in Australia with the aim of
killing and / or causing serious injury to people.

'The second allegation is that on 18 March 2015, the defendant incited another
person to behead someone in Australia.'

'We have determined that there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect
of conviction and that a prosecution is in the public interest.'

The alleged plot bears a frightening resemblance to that of hate preachers
Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale who butchered British soldier Lee Rigby
in south-East London in May 2013.

Anzac Day was established to mark the anniversary of the start of the First
World War Gallipoli campaign and ceremonies are held on April 25 each year in
memory of Australian and New Zealand soldiers who have died in battle.

This year's events, being held tomorrow, take on extra significance as the
centenary of the conflict in Turkey is marked.

Two teenagers were also among those arrested by counter-terrorism police in
Australia on suspicion of planning and carrying out the Anzac Day attack.

Victoria Police Deputy Commissioner said both men were 'associates' of Abdul
Numan Haider, the 18-year-old shot dead after stabbing two officers outside a
Melbourne police station in September.

A number of 'edged weapons' including knives and swords were seized at some of
the properties searched.

A total of five teenagers were arrested as part of the Melbourne Joint Counter
Terrorism Team operation named Operation Rising in which 200 officers raided
seven properties.

All five were on the radar of counter-terrorism investigators, according to
Australian Federal Police Acting Commissioner Michael Phelan

He said: 'Particularly since late last month the investigation ramped up and it
became very obvious to us that their plans were specific.

'We received information earlier this week that led us to undertake the
resolution today.'

London is hosting three Anzac ceremonies on Saturday: A service at Hyde Park
Corner, another at Westminster Abbey and a wreath-laying ceremony at the
Cenotaph on Whitehall.

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh are due to attend the services at the
Cenotaph and Westminster Abbey.

The Duke of Cambridge will join them at the Cenotaph and Princess Anne will
attend the dawn service at Hyde Park Corner.

Security will be extremely high at all three events - with those attending told
to carry photographic ID - and it could be ramped up further after recent terror
arrests.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 1:48 PM GMT

Italian police hunting Osama Bin Laden's former bodyguards and 16 other
Pakistani extremists reveal Al Qaeda militants plotted terror attack on the
Vatican

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1201 words



     ·    Ongoing terror raids have largely focused on the Italian island of
          Sardinia
     ·    Jihadis are suspected of plotting attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan
     ·    Two of them are thought to have previously worked for late Al Qaeda
          leader
     ·    Investigators have also linked terror cell to planned attack on the
          Vatican
     ·    Suicide bomber arrived in Rome in 2010 but mysteriously left shortly
          after


Islamic extremists suspected of killing more than 100 people by bombing a
Pakistani market also planned an attack against the Vatican in 2010 that was
never carried out, Italian prosecutors say.

Wiretaps collected as part of investigation into an Islamic terror network
operating in Italy gave 'signals of some preparation for a possible attack' in
the Vatican City, Mauro Mura revealed.

That included the arrival of a suicide bomber in Rome. He eventually left Italy
without taking part in any acts of terrorism, Mura told a news conference in
Cagliari, Sardinia. The prosecutor added that it wasn't clear what had prompted
the militant's decision to abandon the attack.

The revelation came as Italian police said they are hunting 18 suspected
extremists, including two purported bodyguards for Osama bin Laden, accused of
staging attacks in Pakistan aimed at stopping that government's actions against
the Taliban.

At the time of the suspected plot to bomb the Vatican, Pope Benedict XVI was
still reeling from the effects in the Muslim world of a 2006 speech in
Regensburg, Germany, in which he quoted a Byzantine emperor who characterized
some of the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad as 'evil and inhuman,'
particularly 'his command to spread by the sword the faith.'

While relations with the Muslim world were eventually repaired, tensions flared
again in 2011 when Cairo's al-Azhar institute, the pre-eminent theological
school of Sunni Islam, suspended interfaith talks with the Vatican after
Benedict called for greater protections for Egypt's minority Christians.

More recently, Italian officials have made clear they take seriously the threat
of the Islamic State group to conquer Rome and the seat of Christianity.

Security has been beefed up at the Vatican and the head of the Swiss Guards has
said they are ready but that they have no information about an imminent threat.

Pope Francis himself has said he realizes he may be a target but that he fears
mostly for the innocent crowds who come to see him every time he's in public.

The investigation was launched in 2005, but Mura said it was slowed when news of
the investigation leaked to the media, alerting the suspects that they were
being watched.

Authorities said some of the suspects sought in the probe were responsible for
'numerous bloody acts of terrorism in Pakistan,' including the October 2009
explosion in a market in Peshawar in which more than 100 people died.

Telephone wiretaps indicated that two of the suspects were part of a network of
people who protected bin Laden in Pakistan, a police statement said.

Police said the aim of the terror network was to create an insurrection against
the Pakistani government.

This morning Italy revealed it is conducting a 'vast anti-terrorism' operation
to arrest members of an armed Al Qaeda-inspired group that were ready to carry
out attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

An ongoing series of raids largely focussing on the autonomous island of
Sardinia is targeting 18 people, including two purported bodyguards for bin
Laden, investigators said.

Some of those being tracked by police have been arrested in Italy - including an
imam suspected of being the group's spiritual leader - but others are believed
to have already fled abroad.

The group had 'an abundant amount of weapons and numerous faithful willing to
carry out acts of terrorism in Pakistan and Afghanistan before returning to
Italy,' Italian investigators police said.

All the suspects are Pakistanis or Afghans, police official Mario Carta said,
confirming the operation is still in progress.

European governments are increasingly worried about the threat of 'sleeper'
militants apparently living normal lies in their countries but who are then
activated to stage attacks at home or abroad.

Police wiretaps had determined that two people among the 18 targeted by arrest
warrants were suspected of being part of a group that had protected Al Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.

Bin Laden was killed by U.S. special forces at his hideout in Abbottabad,
Pakistan in 2011.

The investigation, carried out by Italy's anti-terrorism DIGOS police branch,
led to the arrest of an Imam in the northern city of Bergamo.

He was suspected of being the spiritual leader of the group and had collected
funds purportedly for religious purposes from Pakistanis and Afghans in Italy,
police said.

The group supported the 'armed struggle against the West', and wanted to incite
a popular uprising against the Pakistani government so it would stop its backing
of U.S. forces in Afghanistan.

The United States has withdrawn most of its forces from Afghanistan.

CIA OFFICIALS TELL OF SHOCKING REALIZATION THAT THEY MIGHT HAVE KILLED INNOCENT
HOSTAGES

The moment they spotted six bodies instead of four, US intelligence officers
realized they had committed a horrific blunder.

A drone, intended to kill a select group of Al Qaeda terrorists on January 15,
struck two innocent hostages - American aid worker Dr Warren Weinstein, and
Italian aid worker Giovanni Lo Porto.

But after bemusedly burying the extra bodies near the strike on the border of
Afghanistan and Pakistan, it has taken the CIA three months to confirm their
fears.

Officials connected to the case told the New York Times the bodies of Dr
Weinstein and Lo Porto were spotted on the drone cam.

The discovery prompted an investigation during which, the papers notes,
'analysts began hearing ominous talk that 'Westerners' had been killed.'

A CIA operator told the Times: 'There were two more burials than we expected,
and we didn't know who they were.'

Finally, President Obama was briefed this month and delivered the news to the
public, assuming full responsibility.

However, a relatively small number remains for training and special operations,
while Washington is also carrying out drone strikes on Taliban militants.

The money was sent to Pakistan by members of the group who managed to avoid
currency control regulations.

In one case, (EURO)55,268 was carried to Pakistan on a flight from Rome to
Islamabad.

But police said much of the money was moved through the trust-based transfer
system known as hawala, which pre-dates the time of the Prophet Mohammed.

Hawala is the banking system of choice in Afghanistan's cash-based economy.

Some of those under investigation were believed to be involved in attacks in
Pakistan, including one that killed more than 100 people in a market in the
northwestern frontier city of Peshawar in 2009.

Most of the warrants centred on the Italian island of Sardinia, but the
operation covered a total of seven Italian provinces, the statement said.

The organisation arranged for Pakistanis and Afghans to get into Italy under
work contracts or as refugees seeking asylum and later sent some to cities in
northern Europe, police said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Five terror attacks thwarted but 'threat is at a new high';
world digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 92 words


FRANCE: Five terrorist attacks have been foiled since the Charlie Hebdo
massacre, prime minister Manuel Valls said yesterday.

He was speaking after the arrest of Sid Ahmed Ghlam, an Algerian suspected of
planning attacks on churches in Villejuif, outside Paris.

Ghlam, 24, who is thought to have been in contact with IS in Syria, was held
after accidentally shooting himself.

'The threat has never been as high,' Mr Valls said. 'We have never had to face
this kind of terrorism in our history.' Seventeen people died in the Paris
terror attacks in January.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 24, 2015 Friday 12:47 PM GMT

Italian police say terror suspects 'planned Vatican attack';
Italian police dismantle a network of Islamist radicals that may have planned an
attack on the Vatican

BYLINE: By Reuters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words


Italian police said on Friday they were staging a "vast anti-terrorism"
operation against an armed organisation inspired by al-Qaeda whose members may
have been planning an attack against the Vatican.

Cagliari chief prosecutor Mauro Mura told reporters that the suspects were also
planning to carry out attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan .

A series of raids across the country was targeting 18 people, they said. Some
had been arrested in Italy, including the group's suspected spiritual leader,
but others were believed to have left the country.

"We don't have proof, we have strong suspicion," said Mario Carta, head of the
police unit leading the investigation said when asked for more details on a
possible attack against the seat of the Catholic Church.

He said that, in intercepted telephone calls, investigators had heard the
suspects say they would launch a "big jihad in Italy," conversations that also
suggested a target might be the Vatican.

The group had "an abundant amount of weapons and numerous faithful willing to
carry out acts of terrorism in Pakistan and Afghanistan before returning to
Italy," police said in one of a series of statements.

All the suspects are Pakistanis or Afghans, Mr Carta said, adding that the
operation was still in progress.

I

European governments are increasingly worried about the threat of "sleeper"
militants apparently living normal lives in their countries but who are then
activated to stage attacks at home or abroad.

Police wiretaps had determined that two people among the 18 targeted by arrest
warrants were suspected of being part of a group that had protected al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden, who was killed by US special forces at his hideout in
Abbottabad, Pakistan in 2011, a statement said.

The investigation, carried out by Italy's anti-terrorism DIGOS police branch,
led to the arrest of an Imam in the northern city of Bergamo. He was suspected
of being the spiritual leader of the group and had collected funds purportedly
for religious purposes from Pakistanis and Afghans in Italy, police said.

The group supported the "armed struggle against the West", and wanted to incite
a popular uprising against the Pakistani government so it would stop its backing
of US forces in Afghanistan.

The United States has withdrawn most of its forces from Afghanistan . However, a
relatively small number remains for training and special operations, while
Washington is also carrying out drone strikes on Taliban militants.

The money was sent to Pakistan by members of the group who managed to avoid
Italy's currency control regulations. In one case, 55,268 euros ($60,160) were
carried to Pakistan on a flight from Rome to Islamabad.

But police said much of the money was moved through the trust-based transfer
system known as hawala, which predates the time of the Prophet Mohammed, and
which is the banking system of choice in Afghanistan's cash-based economy.

Some of those under investigation were believed to be involved in attacks in
Pakistan, including one that killed more than 100 people in a market in the
northwestern frontier city of Peshawar in 2009, the police added.

Most of the warrants centred on the Italian island of Sardinia, but the
operation covered a total of seven Italian provinces, the statement said.

The organisation arranged for Pakistanis and Afghans to get into Italy under
work contracts or as refugees seeking asylum and later sent some to cities in
northern Europe, police said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 25, 2015
                                 First Edition

Terror network's plan to attack Vatican revealed;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories ITALY

BYLINE: Colleen Barry IN MILAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 112 words


Islamic extremists suspected of a bomb attack in a Pakistani market that killed
more than 100 people had also planned to attack the Vatican in 2010, an Italian
prosecutor said.

The alleged plot, known to authorities for years, was revealed as prosecutors
announced the results of a decade-long investigation into an Italy-based terror
network that aimed to stop Pakistan's actions against the Taliban. Police
arrested a number of suspects related to the probe throughout Italy yesterday.
More were being sought last night.

Collected wiretaps gave "signals of some preparation for a possible attack" at
the Vatican, prosecutor Mauro Mura told a news conference in Sardinia. AP

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            April 25, 2015 Saturday

Terror suspects  planned Vatican attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 404 words


Cagliari Chief Prosecutor Mauro Mura told reporters that as well as planning to
launch attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan, as earlier reported, the suspects
may also have been aiming to target the Vatican and a suicide bomber had arrived
in Rome but later left for unknown reasons.

Police conducted raids across Italy yesterday, targeting 18 people suspected of
links with al-Qaeda. Some were arrested, including the group s suspected
spiritual leader, but others were believed to have left the country.

We don t have proof, we have strong suspicion,  said Mario Carta, head of the
police unit leading the investigation said when asked for more details on a
possible attack against the seat of the Catholic Church.

He said that, in intercepted telephone calls, investigators had heard the
suspects say they would launch a  big jihad in Italy,  conversations that also
suggested a target might be the Vatican.

All the suspects are Pakistanis or Afghans, Carta told Reuters earlier, adding
that the operation was still in progress.

The attack was believed to have been planned for in 2010.

Mura told a news conference in Cagliari, Sardinia, that wiretap evidence
included the arrival of a suicide bomber in Rome. He eventually left Italy, Mura
said, although it wasn t clear why.

At the time of the suspected plot to bomb the Vatican, Pope Benedict XVI was
still reeling from the effects in the Muslim world of a 2006 speech in
Regensburg, Germany, in which he quoted a Byzantine emperor who characterised
some of the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad as  evil and inhuman,
particularly  his command to spread by the sword the faith.

While relations with the Muslim world were eventually repaired, tensions flared
again in 2011 when Cairo s al-Azhar institute, the pre-eminent theological
school of Sunni Islam, suspended interfaith talks with the Vatican after
Benedict called for greater protections for Egypt s minority Christians.

More recently, Italian officials have made clear they take seriously the threat
of the Islamic State group to conquer Rome and the seat of Christianity.
Security has been beefed up at the Vatican and the head of the Swiss Guards has
said they are ready but that they have no information about an imminent threat.

Pope Francis himself has said he realises he may be a target but that he fears
mostly for the innocent crowds who come to see him every time he s in public.

DISCOVER MORE CONTENT LIKE THIS

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                              Spenborough Guardian

                            April 25, 2015 Saturday

Mum's arson attack terror

LENGTH: 348  words


A mother is terrified she is being watched after her car was set alight during
the night and the flames almost spread to her gas meter.

Tracey King only had her Vauxhall Astra for 10 weeks when it was set on fire in
a week of arson attacks that terrorised the Firthcliffe Estate in Liversedge.

She said: "I'm petrified - I'm always on edge and I keep thinking someone is on
the greenway watching.

"We feel like we're in danger and that the police should be here every night
patrolling."

The flames from the burning car spread to her bin and burned her kitchen door,
just next to her gas meter, on Sunday April 19.

"Any closer and it would have all gone boom'," she said.

"I heard a lot of banging, looked outside and everything was orange. My son
shouted to get out of the house'.

"The fire got to the kitchen door and I think the bin was the only thing that
stopped it reaching the gas meter."

It has been a difficult year for Ms King, 38, who had to deal with the death of
her brother in February and the news that her aunty was diagnosed with breast
cancer.

She said: "If I wasn't keeping myself in such high spirits I think I would have
a nervous breakdown.

"We're only four months in to the year so I don't know how the rest of it will
be."

But she has not been without help since her friends at the Dewsbury Mormon
Chapel, in Halifax Road, clubbed together as soon as they heard.

She said: "They had a collection and raised more than £100. The bishop called me
as well to make sure that I had insurance. They have been really, really
supportive."

-April 14, Renault Megane set alight in Firthcliffe Road.

-April 17, Suzuki Swift set alight in Stanley Lane.

-April 19, Vauxhall Astra set alight in Firthcliffe Lane.

-April 21 Vauxhall Astra set alight in Firthcliffe Drive.

A police spokeswoman said: "Given the similarities and close proximity of these
incidents we are linking them and are working with the fire service in
investigating these offences."

Det Insp Mark Walker, of Kirklees CID, said police were conducting forensic
enquiries and asked anyone with information to contact him on 101.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NYSG


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2015 Sunday

"Terrorist attack" claims lives in Baghdad - TV

LENGTH: 71 words


"Terrorist attack targets a group of workers in Al-Amil district [in Baghdad],
some people were killed and injured," Iraqi government-owned Al-Iraqiyah News TV
said in an "urgent" caption at 0658 gmt on 26 April.

The station gave no more details on the attack.

Meanwhile, Baghdad-based pro-Kurds Shafaq News website reported that two car
bombs were used in the attack.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0658gmt 26 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 26, 2015 Sunday 9:41 PM GMT

France detains three new suspects linked to alleged terror plot to attack Paris
churches;
Sid Ahmed Ghlam is suspected of planning an attack on a church in Villejuif,
south of Paris and of shooting and killing a woman nearby

BYLINE: Angela Charlton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 293 words


French police have detained three people in an investigation into an alleged
plot to attack a church near Paris, authorities have said.

The three are suspected of possible links to Sid Ahmed Ghlam, the chief suspect
in the thwarted attack. The investigation has revived security concerns in
France, tense after deadly attacks on a kosher market and newspaper offices in
January.

Authorities say Ghlam, an Algerian computer science student, planned an attack
on a church in Villejuif, south of Paris, and is suspected in the killing of a
woman nearby. He was arrested last week after apparently shooting himself by
accident.

He was handed preliminary charges, including one for killing in relation to a
terrorist enterprise - which means investigators believe he had accomplices.

As of Sunday evening, a French security official said three other suspects are
in custody in the case: One man, whose DNA was found in Ghlam's bedroom, one
whose DNA was found on a hairbrush in Ghlam's house, and another who may have
provided logistical support for the alleged plot. The official wasn't authorized
to be publicly named.

The Paris prosecutor's office confirmed that suspects are in custody but
wouldn't provide further details. It is unclear at this stage whether the three
suspects were involved in the purported plot.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

A search of Ghlam's home turned up three Kalashnikov assault rifles as well as
phones and computers that indicate he had been in contact with someone possibly
located in Syria, who urged the suspect to target a church, according to the
prosecutor. Police also found Arabic-language material that mentioned al-Qaida
and the Islamic State group, but so far there is no evidence he had direct ties
to any organized groups.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       April 27, 2015 Monday 6:52 PM GMT

9/11: Iranian general accuses US of organising September 11 terror attacks 'to
justify invasion of Middle East'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 492 words


Top Iranian military commander, Brigadier General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan, has
accused the United States of carrying out the 9/11 terror attacks in order to
justify an invasion of the Middle East "with the goal of ruling it".

The commander of Iran's ground forces, made the comments in an interview with
Iran's state-owned Al-Alam news channel, which broadcasts in Arabic as opposed
to Farsi.

According to a translation by the US-based Middle East Media Research
Institution, he referred to the current conflicts in Iraq and Syria, and told
the interviewer: "These wars in the middle and these threats stem from a
comprehensive American strategy.

"After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Americans felt that a new force was
beginning to materialise, namely the union between Sunnis and Shias. The basis
of this force was the blessed Islamic Revolution in Iran, this force is Islam,
or the Islamic world. "

He went on to accuse the US of masterminding the terror attacks on 11 September
2001, which killed almost 3,000 people.

"The first thing they did was to plan and carry out the events of 9/11, in order
to justify their presence in Western Asia, with the goal of ruling it," he said.

Mr Pourdastan also went on to warn Isis, whose extremist anti-Shia Sunni
fighters have captured swathes of Iraq and Syria, against venturing across the
Iranian border.

Appearing to reject Isis' claims that its fighters are truly Muslims, he said:
"If [Isis] tries to come within 40km of our borders, we shall confront them, and
make them witness the might and capabilities of the Muslim soldiers."

His comments come amid a tentative thawing of tension between the US and Tehran
amid negotiations on a nuclear deal, following three decades of animosity.

Negotiators from the US and five other nations are attempting to secure an
agreement by the end of June requiring Iran to curb its nuclear program in
exchange for an easing of sanctions which has damaged the nation's economy.

This week, the US Senate will begin debating a bill allowing Congress to review
the potential agreement.

Source: Independent

Further reading

FBI accused of 'covering up Saudi Arabian links to 9/11'

Russell Brand 'open' to US 9/11 conspiracy

What are Saudi Arabia's ties to al-Qaeda? Barack Obama to consider releasing
secret sections of 9/11 terror inquiry

War with Isis: If Saudi Arabia isn't fuelling the militant inferno, who is?

Isis: Wahhabists of Saudi Arabia and Qatar find they have created a monster

Corrs guitarist: 9/11 was an inside job

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             April 27, 2015 Monday

Police Claim To Foil Terrorist Attack On Vatican

LENGTH: 109  words



HIGHLIGHT: Italian police have arrested 18 people of Middle Eastern origin on
suspicion of plotting a terror attack on the Vatican, stated Italian
counter-terrorism police officials.


News: Italian police have arrested 18 people of Middle Eastern origin on
suspicion of plotting a terrorist attack on the Vatican, stated Italian
counter-terrorism police officials. The arrests were made in a 'vast
anti-terrorism' operation against an Italian group, allegedly inspired by
al-Qaeda, said the officials. Local media reported that the group was based on
the Italian island of Sardinia, and two of the arrested were former bodyguards
of Osama bin Laden before his death in 2011. The group had reportedly travelled
back and forth from Italy to Pakistan and Afghanistan to carry out operations,
stated Cagliari Chief Prosecutor Mauro Mura (ninemsn).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                getsurrey.co.uk

                       April 27, 2015 Monday 8:39 AM GMT

Terror as hammer gang attack mobile home site;
The men roamed from home to home demanding money, threatening two women and
attacking a man

BYLINE: By Henry Bodkin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Police are hunting a gang of burglars armed with hammers which attacked a
caravan site in Normandy on Saturday (April 25).

A number of men wearing balaclavas and black clothing struck the Glaziers Lane
static mobile home compound at around 10.20pm.

They threatened two women in one home, demanding money from them.

They then searched a number of unoccupied properties before moving on to another
home where they attacked a man.

The group made off from the scene at around 10.30pm in two cars believed to be a
blue or dark Audi A4 and a blue VW Golf GTI.

The victim of the attack was treated for injuries by paramedics, but was not
taken to hospital.

Detective Sergeant Andy Greaves said: "This was an extremely frightening
incident for those involved and I would like to reassure the local community
that we are doing all we can to find those responsible.

"The investigation is in its early stages but we do believe that this was a
targeted offence and we are currently following a number of lines of enquiry.

"I would urge anyone who was in the area between 10pm and 1.30pm and saw
anything suspicious to contact us."

Surrey Police said officers from the local Safer Neighbourhood Team were
carrying out reassurance patrols in the area.

Anyone with information should contact Surrey Police on 101 quoting reference
45150034010.

Alternatively contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBSUR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 27, 2015 Monday 3:42 PM GMT

9/11: Iranian General accuses US of organising September 11 terror attacks;
Brigadier General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan said that the US masterminded the attack
to justify invading the Middle East

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 407 words


A top Iranian military commander has accused the United States of carrying out
the 9/11 terror attacks in order to justify an invasion of the Middle East "with
the goal of ruling it".

Brigadier General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan, the commander of Iran's ground forces,
made the comments in an interview with Iran's state-owned Al-Alam news channel,
which broadcasts in Arabic as opposed to Farsi.

Top 10 most powerful Muslims in the world

Read more: Iran accuses US of creating nuclear weapons 'myth'Horse-trading
threatens Obama's nuclear deal with Iran

According to a translation by the US-based Middle East Media Research
Institution, he referred to the current conflicts in Iraq and Syria, and told
the interviewer: "These wars in the middle and these threats stem from a
comprehensive American strategy.

"After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Americans felt that a new force was
beginning to materialise, namely the union between Sunnis and Shias. The basis
of this force was the blessed Islamic Revolution in Iran, this force is Islam,
or the Islamic world. "

He went on to accuse the US of masterminding the terror attacks on 11 September
2001, which killed almost 3,000 people.

"The first thing they did was to plan and carry out the events of 9/11, in order
to justify their presence in Western Asia, with the goal of ruling it," he said.

Read more: Russia angers Israel by ending ban on IranIsraeli Prime Minister
compares Iran to the NazisComment: How much difference will Obama really make
with Iran?

Mr Pourdastan also went on to warn Isis, whose extremist anti-Shia Sunni
fighters have captured swathes of Iraq and Syria, against venturing across the
Iranian border.

Appearing to reject Isis' claims that its fighters are truly Muslims, he said:
"If [Isis] tries to come within 40km of our borders, we shall confront them, and
make them witness the might and capabilities of the Muslim soldiers."

His comments come amid a tentative thawing of tension between the US and Tehran
amid negotiations on a nuclear deal, following three decades of animosity.

Negotiators from the US and five other nations are attempting to secure an
agreement by the end of June requiring Iran to curb its nuclear program in
exchange for an easing of sanctions which has damaged the nation's economy.

This week, the US Senate will begin debating a bill allowing Congress to review
the potential agreement.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday

Word about possible terror attacks came from Bosnians in Australia - minister

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb privately-owned centrist newspaper Nezavisne
novine, on 28 April

[Unattributed report: "Mektic: Word About terror Actions Came From B-H Nationals
in Australia"]

Sarajevo - B-H [Bosnia and Hercegovina] Security Minister Dragan Mektic said
today that the security agencies in B-H had word that a terrorist act could be
carried out.

He said that there was even information that the state institutions and police
stations could be targeted.

Asked by a journalist why something concrete had not been done about it, he said
that an investigation would determine that.

"It is important to stress that word came from B-H nationals living in
Australia," Mektic said.

Source: Nezavisne novine, Banja Luka, in Bosnian 28 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

we're ill-prepared for terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 62 words


GARDAI are not prepared to deal with a terror attack if it comes to our shores,
it was warned yesterday.

Officers who would be the first on the scene would come face to face with
terrorists armed with only batons and pepper spray.

GRA vice president Ciaran O'Neill said: "You have to remember there's a risk of
any type of attack. You look at the news, it could happen here."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

Bosnians in Australia provided tipoff about terrorist attack - security chief

LENGTH: 1029 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb privately-owned centrist newspaper Nezavisne
novine, on 29 April

[Report by Almedin Sisic, Uros Vukic: "Tipoffs About the Attack Came From
Australia?"]

Sarajevo, Banja Luka - Was there intelligence about a terrorist attack being
plotted in Bosnia-Hercegovina, and to what degree was that information usable?
Discovering the real truth about this should be the first step towards
stabilization and calming down of the security situation and tensions in
Bosnia-Hercegovina, in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the Zvornik
police station.

On the one hand, the B-H Security Ministry said that, at the end of last week,
the B-H Intelligence and Security Agency (OSA) had warned all agencies about the
findings that a terrorist attack could happen in Bosnia-Hercegovina, with
potential targets being the government institutions, public gatherings,
religious buildings, and police stations. On the other hand, the RS [Serb
Republic] said that the OSA information - that is, the OSA circular notice that
had been sent to everyone - was practically unusable.

What Does it Say?

"It says that, because of some ruckus that happened in Australia, there was the
possibility of a terrorist attack throughout Bosnia-Hercegovina. It goes on to
say that the agency that had submitted the information did not have information
about the place where the attack might happen. There is nothing else in that
document," RS President Milorad Dodik said and called on the responsible
authorities to declassify the document so that the public could see what it
really said.

B-H Security Minister Dragan Mektic said that the security agencies had received
certain tipoffs about a possible terrorist act. He stressed that even government
buildings and police stations had been mentioned.

When asked why nothing concrete had been done in that matter, Mektic replied
that an investigation would determine that.

"It is important to note that tipoffs came from B-H nationals living in
Australia," Mektic said.

He added that most of the measures and conclusions from yesterday's session of
the B-H Council of Ministers would be forwarded to the security agencies so that
they could work together, exchange information, and cooperate.

Severe Blow

RS Police Director Gojko Vasic said that there had been information from
intelligence agencies about the possibility of a terrorist attack in
Bosnia-Hercegovina, and this information had been a cause for alarm in terms of
stepping up security for protected buildings.

"That was done a few days ago. Despite that this had been done, the way in which
the attack was carried out did not provide enough room to the police to avoid
full-scale damage. We see this as a severe blow," Vasic said.

Once the investigation answers the question about usability of the information,
we will know to what extent were individuals in the system responsible. Until
then, it has been announced that all police agencies will be at full alert.

Due to the newly arisen situation, the RS Government held a session on Monday
[27 April] evening and requested that the antiterrorist capacities of the RS
Police be assessed within the next three days.

"What is missing will be put in place. Now no one can stop us any longer," Dodik
said, recalling that the intelligence component had been ripped out of the RS
fabric, which was the cause of insufficient information.

Mirsad Vilic, director of the Directorate To Coordinate Police Bodies, told
Nezavisne Novine today that, immediately after the attack, cooperation had been
established with the RS MUP [Interior Ministry] and the RS Police director and
deputy director.

"We offered them all of our resources - human and material - that could help in
shedding light on this terrorist attack," Vilic said.

He stressed that security had immediately been stepped up for the embassies and
consulates that were under the directorate's jurisdiction.

As for cooperation, all of the security agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina stressed
that allied and joint efforts had to lead to a victory over terrorism as a
phenomenon, because the increasingly frequent terrorist attacks were harming the
international reputation of Bosnia-Hercegovina and all its citizens.

The FB-H [Federation of Bosnia-Hercegovina] Interior Ministry and the Federation
Police Administration [FUP] are in constant communication with the RS MUP, RS
Interior Minister Dragan Lukac, and the B-H Security Ministry.

"We have offered all assistance that we can provide institutionally. We are
committed to joint efforts of the B-H police agencies in the fight against
terrorism, all forms of legal offences, and other crimes in order to ensure the
safest possible security environment in our country," FB-H Interior Minister
Aljosa Campara said.

Goals, Motives of Terrorists

Vlado Azinovic, assistant professor at the Department of Security and Peace
Studies of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Sarajevo and author of numerous
studies and books about terrorism, said today that the attack on the police
station "as a symbol of the state" was in itself a terrorist act, but we still
did not know the actual motive.

"I think that it is too early to judge the character of this event," Azinovic
said.

Denis Hadzovic, general secretary of the Centre for Security Studies, thought
that the most important thing at this moment was to refrain from releasing
unverified information.

He said that "a terrorist attack is defined as a crime that has the goal of
instilling fear among citizens in order to achieve political goals."

According to security expert Predrag Ceranic, the terrorist attack in Zvornik
showed clearly that the B-H-level law enforcement agencies were not in control
of the situation, which generated the need for the RS to take steps on its own
to protect the constitutional order.

Ceranic recalled the fact that the mere announcement of the RS MUP creating an
antiterrorism department had generated very bad reactions among some politicians
and media. However, unfortunately, "this tragic event" showed that Interior
Minister Dragan Lukac, who had made the announcement, was a visionary in that
regard.

Source: Nezavisne novine, Banja Luka, in Bosnian 29 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

Residents want Probation Board offices moved after terror attack

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 420 words


THE Northern Ireland Probation Board (NIPB) says it will work with police and
residents to ensure people who live nearby are safe following the bomb attack on
its Londonderry offices - but gave no indication it plans to move.

Householders caught up in the explosion have begun action to get the office and
staff relocated away from their homes.

Families living in Crawford Square - including young children who were
terrorised - were at the centre of the explosion at the NIPB, believed to be the
work of dissident republicans.

The residents association is to launch a petition calling for the relocation of
the NIPB office at a public meeting today.

Secretary of the association Fionnbarra O Dochartaigh told the Belfast Telegraph
there were more appropriate places for the Probation Service to operate from.

He said: "This was not the first time trouble has landed in Crawford Square
because of the Probation Service's office, although it is by far the worst.

"Their office is sandwiched between two residential homes and that is just not
the proper place for it.

"I think it should be moved and while it is not for me to say where, they do
come under the Department of Justice so Bishop Street Court House could be a
better place.

"They need to be in a secure office on government property and not amongst
families."

Laverne Mason's two children aged eight and 11 were asleep in bed when the bomb
exploded.

She was forced to drag them from their sleep out into the freezing night
screaming in fear.

She said: "I think we need to take immediate action with regards to getting the
Probation Board removed.

"We have had problems with them and I feel they have to be removed because
myself or my children could have been killed and I just don't feel safe
anymore."

The staff who work at the Crawford Square office are not expected to return to
the office until next week.

A spokeswoman for the Probation Service said that it understands the residents'
concerns. She said: "PBNI work in the heart of all local communities to deliver
a public service and have worked in Crawford Square for over 30 years.

"Indeed, our staff are part of the local community. We understand the concerns
of residents in Crawford Square following this incident on Monday night.

"PBNI staff met with many of the local residents this week. We are mindful that
police are continuing to work to understand the motives for this attack.

"We will continue to work with the police and local community to ensure our
offices are safe for those who use them and live nearby."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The damage caused to the font porch of the PBNI offices

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

Police Station Terror Attack Suspect Arrested

LENGTH: 98  words



HIGHLIGHT: Officials of the State Investigation and Protection Agency on April
28 detained one person on suspicion of involvement in a terrorist attack on
April 27 in Republika Srpska, an entity of Bosnia-Herzegovina.


News: Officials of the State Investigation and Protection Agency detained one
person on April 28 on suspicion of involvement in a terrorist attack on April 27
in Republika Srpska, an entity of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The suspect has been held
for inquiry in the agency's regional bureau in Tuzla, after which the person
will be handed over to the state prosecutor's office. One policeman was killed
and two others were wounded during the attack when Nerdin Ibric, a 24-year
Bosnian Muslim, stormed a police station in the eastern town of Zvornik. Ibric
was shot to death in the crossfire (Xinhua).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

28 Arrested For Plotting Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 94  words



HIGHLIGHT: Bahraini police have arrested 28 suspects over charges of reportedly
plotting terrorist attacks in the country, according to the Ministry of
Interior.


News: Bahraini police have arrested 28 suspects over charges of reportedly
plotting terrorist attacks in the country, according to the Ministry of
Interior. A few of the arrested individuals had been accused in more than one
case involving the plotting and execution of terrorist attacks. The pre-emptive
security operation, which included the tracking of individuals and monitoring
safe houses by a specially-trained surveillance team, led to the prevention
multiple terrorist attacks planned in a number of villages, stated the interior
ministry (Albawaba/Kuna).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 30, 2015 Thursday 11:14 AM GMT

Malala Yousafzai's 10 attackers sentenced to life in prison by Pakistan terror
court;
Attackers shot Malala in the head when she was 15

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 222 words


A court in Pakistan has reportedly sentenced 10 Taliban militants accused of
plotting the 2012 attack on Malala Yousafzai to life in prison.

According to the Express Tribune in Pakistan, the men from the Tehreek-e-Taliban
Pakistan militant group were identified and arrested in September last year.

They were tried by an anti-terrorism court in Swat on suspicion of plotting the
attack in which Taliban gunmen entered Malala's school bus and shot her in the
head when she was 15.

The young girl's response to the attack and her continued campaigning for girls'
right to education saw her receive accolades from all over the world, and last
year she received the Nobel Peace Prize in conjunction with the Indian rights
activist Kailash Satyarthi.

A security official said none of the four or five men who carried out the attack
on Malala was among the 10 men sentenced on Thursday.

"But certainly they had a role in the planning and execution of the
assassination attempt on Malala," a police official said.

Police believe the gunman who shot Malala escaped across the border into
Afghanistan.

Government official Asim Bajwa told the Express Tribune that the arrested
militants had named Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan's commander Mullah Fazlullah as
the mastermind of the attack.

Malala is now 17 and lives with her family in Birmingham in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 30, 2015 Thursday 5:03 PM GMT

Pakistan to return to Test hosting duties for first time since terrorist attack
in 2009 as Zimbabwe confirm May tour

BYLINE: PRESS ASSOCIATION REPORTER

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 148 words


https://twitter.com/ZimCricketv/status/593707513297641472

https://twitter.com/ZimCricketv/status/593707513297641472

https://twitter.com/ZimCricketv/status/593707513297641472

https://twitter.com/ZimCricketv/status/593707513297641472

https://twitter.com/ZimCricketv/status/593707513297641472

And Zimbabwe will now be the first full Test nation to set foot in Pakistan, in
a series comprising two Twenty20 internationals and three one-day internationals
for late May.

In press conference statements published via their official Twitter feed,
Zimbabwe cricket managing director Alistair Campbell said: 'We are touring
Pakistan as a measure of establishing bilateral relations between us and them.

'They will also come to Zimbabwe in August.'

At the same press conference, Zimbabwe Cricket also confirmed a new four-year
deal for Dav Whatmore who will face the side he previously coached in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      April 30, 2015 Thursday 07:15 PM GMT

Police Foil 'Cycling Race Terror Attack'

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 370 words



HIGHLIGHT: German police have stopped an Islamist terror attack, possibly
targeting a cycling race attended by thousands every year in Frankfurt.


  Officers arrested a couple with suspected militant links after the husband was
spotted buying large amounts of bomb-making chemicals, Frankfurt's chief
prosecutor Albrecht Schreiber told a news conference.

They found a functioning pipe bomb, an assault rifle, 100 rounds of ammunition,
three litres of hydrogen peroxide, and other chemicals used for explosives in
their home in Oberursel, near Frankfurt, he said.

The 35-year-old man held has dual Turkish-German citizenship and a criminal
record, said police. His Turkish wife, 34, was also arrested.

Two young children found in their home are being cared for by social services.

Police said they decided to detain the man after he bought large amounts of
chemicals used in explosives under a false name.

He was also seen walking along the route of Frankfurt's May Day cycling race,
which attracts thousands of participants and spectators every year.

"Suspicions were heightened in recent days by the fact that the accused (man)
was observed in the area where tomorrow's cycling race will take place," Mr
Schreiber told reporters.

"The result of the raid shows that our suspicions were confirmed."

He added: "I want to emphasise that an attack was prevented, but it will have to
be seen whether a concrete attack against tomorrow's cycle race was planned."

State police chief Stefan Mueller was asked whether the pair were planning an
attack similar to the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, which killed three and
injured more than 260 spectators.

He said: "Clearly since the Boston Marathon these security concerns have been
part of the considerations of how to deal with that (danger) before every
marathon race in Germany - and that is also valid for cycle races."

German newspaper Die Welt quoted security sources as saying the husband and wife
have links to Salafist militants in Frankfurt as well as the al Qaeda terror
network.

Salafists advocate a puritanical form of Islam and are growing in number in
Germany, as are the number of potential recruits for Islamic State (IS), says
the country's BfV domestic intelligence agency.

Some 450 people from Germany have travelled to Syria and Iraq to join jihadist
forces, BfV estimates.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French military gets (EURO)4bn boost after terror attacks

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 248 words


France is to spend an extra (EURO)4 billion on defence in the short term to pay
for combat and security operations against Muslim extremists at home and abroad.

President Hollande overruled the finance ministry, which had refused to
contemplate any rise in the military budget to meet the additional costs of
keeping forces in combat operations in Africa and Iraq and guarding French
domestic sites against jihadist attack.

"France is facing threats at home and overseas," Mr Hollande said yesterday
after ending a public quarrel over money between Jean-Yves le Drian and Michel
Sapin, the defence and finance ministers.

"Security, protection, independence are principles that are not negotiable.

We have the duty to support people who may come under threat, but we also defend
our own security."

The extra expenditure from next year breaks a defence budget freeze that was
capped at (EURO)31.4 billion a year in 2013. French military chiefs and
conservative politicians have been warning that the country would no longer have
the means to defend itself with the Socialist government's planned realterms
cuts. The defence ministry had been asking for (EURO)8 billion and to halt
34,000 redundancies. Britain spends (EURO)50 billion a year on defence.

Mr Hollande, who is also commander-in-chief of the armed forces, decided to end
the budget freeze after he ordered 7,000 additional troops to guard stations,
shopping centres and other sensitive sites following the Charlie Hebdo murders
in January.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 1, 2015 Friday

Bosnian expert says Zvornik police station attack "isolated act of terrorism"

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 30 April

[Unattributed report: "Ibric's attack is a sort of 'isolated act of terrorism'"]

Sarajevo - Commenting on this week's terrorist attack on the police station in
Zvornik, Vlado Azinovic, an expert on terrorism, told the N1 television that it
clearly had characteristics of a terrorist act.

"We do not know the reasons, but I believe that it fits into some context. An
attack on a police station is an attack against the state, a classic act of
terrorism," he said. When asked whether it was possible to respond in a
different way, considering that information about the attack had been forwarded
to security services, and whether B-H was having a problem with terrorism,
Azinovic pointed out that the real character of the threat was unknown and that
it was an unspecified threat.

"One of the ways is to tighten security around the guarded facilities. If OSA
[Intelligence and Security Agency] had more precise information, it would
perhaps have reinforced its measures. I believe that the attack was an isolated
incident carried out by an individual who had been radicalized in the meantime,
the so-called "isolated act of terrorism." An individual is not part of any
system, he commits an act of violence of his own volition, and this kind of
attack is most difficult to prevent, even if one has all information about the
planned attack," Azinovic said.

When asked whether unanimous condemnations of the attack in Zvornik and the fact
that a joint team had been established were a sign that political will to solve
the problem of terrorism in B-H was unquestionable, the N1 interlocutor said
that B-H itself had no problem with terrorism, adding that it was a global
problem and that the threat in B-H was not so big.

"No one is born a terrorist. A person becomes a terrorist, this must be clear. I
must point to the maturity of the politicians, which reflects the maturity of
society when it comes to developments surrounding the Zvornik attack," Azinovic
said in conclusion.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian 30 Apr 15 p 2

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 1, 2015 Friday

Ukrainian detained in Crimea on suspicion of preparing "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 182 words


Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Simferopol, 1 May: A member of the Azov volunteer battalion of the Ukrainian
National Guard has been detained in Crimea on suspicion of preparing a terror
attack at the Crimean Prosecutor's Office,

the press service of the Crimean Prosecutor's Office has reported.

"He has been taken into custody," Crimean Prosecutor Natalya Poklonskaya said,
as quoted by the press service.

Poklonskaya said the detainee was also suspected of being involved in an arson
attack on the Chukurcha mosque in Simferopol.

According to the prosecutor, several high-profile terrorist and extremist crimes
have been cleared up as a result of joint efforts of the Prosecutor's Office and
the regional departments of the Interior Ministry and the Federal Security
Service.

A bag with explosives was found near the Crimean Prosecutor's Office in
Simferopol in August 2014. The investigation into the attempted terror attack
was carried out by the Crimean department of the Federal Security Service.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1018 gmt 1 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                         May 1, 2015 Friday 7:18 PM GMT

ISIS: Terror group could launch attack on UK after chief al-Baghdadi is badly
wounded in airstrike;
Islamic State terror chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is badly wounded with spinal
injuries and being treated at a secret hideout by two loyal doctors, it was
claimed yesterday

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


ISIS terrorists may launch a brutal terror attack on the West in revenge for
badly wounding its leader with an airstrike.

Islamic State terror chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is badly wounded with spinal
injuries and being treated at a secret hideout by two loyal doctors, it was
claimed yesterday.

And there are fears that to avenge their leader's wounds his fighters are
planning a spectacular terror attack somewhere in Europe, possibly in the United
Kingdom.

The Iraqi leader of the network was hit by a US airstrike in north west Iraq two
months ago and survived while three armed henchmen were killed in the blast.

According to reports yesterday a number of sources close to the terror
organisation's leader claim he is unlikely to lead ISIS ever again because of
his wounds.

There are even claims that he may be fighting for his life and could therefore
die from the attack, thought to have been planned by the American CIA.

A western intelligence source told the Daily Mirror: "Baghdadi is a real
figurehead and this is a significant blow against ISIS.

"But he can be replaced and the group is by no means defeated - it represents a
very real threat to the rest of the world and could set up an attack in Europe.

"They know that British pilots are flying air attacks and observation patrols
against ISIS across Iraq so the UK is clearly at huge risk of an attack."

Now one of Baghdadi's closest aides Abu Alaa al-Afri, has taken up operational
control of the group which has control of large areas in Syria and across Iraq.

His car was hit by a Hellfire missile on March 18 near al-Baaj, around 80 miles
west of Mosul which is now governed by his group.

A female radiologist who works at Mosul's main hospital and a male surgeon have
secretly cared for the terror leader - as have their families.

It is thought the woman health worker's two sons work at the hospital, are armed
and also care for him.

Only Baghdadi's inner-circle know the extent of his injuries and where exactly
he is being treated.

It is also feared that ISIS are planning a terror spectacular to avenge his
injuries.

ISIS has since 2013 wreaked havoc across Syria and Iraq but British, US and
Jordanian air strikes have killed many of its fighters.

The group has also launched a huge recruiting campaign to replace the many
fighters killed in the battle for Kobane in North Syria.

A huge security clampdown following the Charlie Hebdo murders in Paris has meant
hundreds of would-be jihadis have ben prevented from travelling to Syria from
Europe in the hope of joining ISIS.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 2, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cycle race cancelled over terror attack fears;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 109 words


Police in Frankfurt ordered the cancellation of a professional cycling race
hours before it was due to begin yesterday, over fears of an imminent Islamist
terror attack.

A married couple living nearby were arrested after police found a pipe bomb,
assault rifle and ammunition for a bazooka inside their home.

The arrested couple were identified only as Halil D, 35, and Senay D, 34, under
strict German privacy laws.

Halil D, a German citizen of Turkish origin, is known to have ties to Islamist
extremist groups and was seen repeatedly walking the route of the annual
Eschborn-Frankfurt City Loop race, police said. His wife is believed to be a
Turkish citizen.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 3, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEW IRA BEHIND BOMB ATTEMPT;
TERROR CAMPAIGN GANG TARGET PSNIBotched attack just latest in number of failed
plots by gang

BYLINE: Tony Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words


THE new IRA was behind the failed attempt to kill police officers in Ardoyne on
Friday.

The terror gang planned on firing a mortar at a PSNI patrol as it passed along
the Crumlin Road. But the device, positioned at the top of Brompton Park, failed
to go off, leaving the dissidents red-faced.

Ardoyne priest Fr Gary Donegan, who received a telephone warning about the
abandoned mortar condemned it as "totally reckless in an area frequented by so
many people".

FAILED bomb block area. mid-air PSNI Chief Superintendent Nigel Grimshaw said he
was "absolutely convinced" it was intended to kill police.

INNOCENT He added: "If it had exploded it would have killed or seriously injured
them and innocent people going about their daily lives in this area."

Sinn Fein's North Belfast MLA Gerry Kelly called on the New IRA to end its
terror campaign, saying: "Those behind this incident have nothing to offer the
people of this community other than trying to plunge us back to the past."

Friday's botched mortar murder bid is just the latest in along line of bungled
attacks on police by the New IRA in north Belfast.

Last week the terror gang tried to drop a blast spokesmen in bomb on cops from a
tower block in the New Lodge area. But it exploded in mid-air after the
paramilitaries used a short fuse. In November, the New IRA fired a rocket at a
PSNI landrover as it travelled along the Crumlin Road, but it failed to explode
because the trigger-man was too close to his target.

A month earlier a New IRA member threw a blast bomb at police on the Crumlin
Road.

And in November 2013, the gang fired high velocity rounds at a convoy of police
vehicles driving past Holy Cross Church.

Sources in the area have linked Friday's failed mortar attack to the New IRA
trying to grab headlines at the beginning of the marching season.

"The New IRA is a complete mess, its leaders and spokesmen are locked up in
Maghaberry and the gang is flapping about like a dead fish trying to do a
spectacular," said a veteran republican.

"There are about a dozen of them in Ardoyne at the minute - one or two old hands
with the rest of them in their 30s or younger who have never seen any action."

TERRORISM Meanwhile, Ardoyne dissident Dee Fennell could face spending the
marching season behind bars after he was refused bail on Friday.

The outspoken republican is charged with making a statement encouraging
terrorism during an Easter commemoration in a Lurgan cemetery.

He quoted murdered republican activist Maire Drumm, who said: "It isn't enough
to shout up the IRA, the important thing is to join the IRA."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAILED MURDER BID: The army disposing of the mortar bombCONDEMNS NEW
IRA ATTACKS: Chief Superintendent Nigel Grimshaw at Friday's bomb sceneSPEAKING
AGAINST TERROR GROUP: MLA Gerry Kelly and Fr Gary Donegan (top)STILL BEHIND
BARS: Dissident Dee Fennell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

Daily says recent terrorist attacks in Bosnia carefully planned

LENGTH: 1224 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 29 April

[Report by M. Osmovic: "Extraordinary Situation: Who is Next Target?"]

There have been three terrorist attacks in Bosnia and Hercegovina [B-H] in the
past five years, with two police officers and one terrorist killed, and a dozen
police officers injured. First Haris Causevic committed a terrorist attack
against the police station in Bugojno on 27 June 2010. He was initially
sentenced to 45 years in prison, but this verdict was later abolished and a new
trial is in progress. On 28 October 2010, Mevlid Jasarevic opened fire and was
shooting uninterruptedly for 50 minutes at the United States of America Embassy
in Sarajevo. He was sentenced to 18 years in prison, in the first instance, and
in the second instance, t15 years in prison. The night before last, Nerdin Ibric
committed a terrorist attack against the police station in Zvornik. He was
killed after he shot a police officer, and injured two.

Brainwashing and Wahhabis

Causevic, Jasarevic, and Ibric have been members of the Wahhabi movement in B-H,
and there is no doubt that their actions were carefully and thoroughly planned
and executed.

"We could get another Mevlid Jasarevic," Almir Dzuvo, director of the
Intelligence Security Agency (OSA), warned five years ago, and before this he
said that he had information that there were 3,000 Wahhabis in B-H, as potential
terrorists, the so called sleepers who were just waiting for orders to act.

Haris Causevic was calm and introvert as a boy, but he later became an abuser
and bully, always armed, so the people of Bugojno tried to avoid him. He left
school and joined the Wahhabi movement. People who know Mevlid Jasarevic also
said that he was quiet. He came to Sarajevo to commit a terrorist attack from
the Serbian town of Novi Pazar, and before this he had lived with his family in
the Wahhabi stronghold in Gornja Maoca. Nerdin Ibric from Kucic Kula, near
Zvornik, lived in this place with his mother. He was also calm and quiet. When
he was one year old, members of the Serb Republic Army shot his father in 1992
in Zvornik, together with 700 other Bosnian Muslims. He graduated from the
Medical Secondary School in Zvornik, and he recently joined the Wahhabis. He
regularly visited Dubnica, near Kalesija, and he urged his mother, family
members, and everyone he knew to go with him.

This is not exaggeration - the Wahhabi movement in B-H has grown immensely and
it has become a serious threat for this country, and its actions, particularly
the terror acts, could largely harm the Bosnian Muslims.

OSA has collected numerous information about Wahhabi actions, it has carried out
many analyses, it is in possession of the "sleepers'" names, and it has been
regularly informing relevant bodies about this, from the state leadership,
through the Security Ministry, to security and police agencies. Since OSA itself
does not have police authority, this agency cannot make arrests, but it has been
feeding relevant, strictly confidential information, to relevant bodies. As it
seems, these bodies have not been taking OSA's information seriously.

Last Friday [24 April], OSA informed the security and police agencies about a
possibility of terrorist attack in B-H, after it had received this information
through cooperation with foreign intelligence services. It seems that this
information was shelved, although it should have prompted urgent alert raising.
This, however, followed only after the terrorist attack on the Zvornik police
station the night before last, but emergency situation was not proclaimed in the
country, although the situation is, in fact, extraordinary.

Our sources say that the Wahhabi movement in B-H is extremely well organized,
that it has strict hierarchy, and that secrets are strictly guarded within. The
objective of this movement is to create so called controlled chaos in the first
stage, in order to, tame, as they would say, West-oriented Bosnian Muslims, to
create other "Gornja Maocas" in big cities, and then start "B-H's cleansing of
non-Muslims" in the second stage.

These have been the intentions of Wahhabis since they first appeared in B-H.
Suad Agic suffered a lot of trouble when he warned the Bosnian Muslims in 2001:
"Wahhabis in B-H have a lot of money that is coming from Arab countries. If we
do not react in time to protect our identity of Bosnian Muslims, we will have
serious problems. B-H cannot become a Shari'ah country, or only a Muslim, or
Bosnian Muslim state."

Who is Behind This

In the meantime, the Wahhabi movement has grown, and it is still growing, with
its leaders saying: "We are growing in numbers, and we will continue to grow."
Apart from the Arab countries, piles of money are coming from Vienna, London,
Luxembourg, and some other European cities. Most Wahhabis are not doing
anything, but living very well. It is public secret that men are getting 300,
and their wives 400 euros per month, as well as considerable amounts for every
child.

The Wahhabi movement has organized its communities in Osivani, near Maglaj,
Gracanica, near Zivinice, Orahovica, near Nemila, Krcevina, near Gradacac,
Brnjica, near Kakanj, Cerovac, near Tesanj, Stijena, near Cazin, Canda, near
Brcko, Mecevici, near Zavidovici, well known Gornja Maoca, Dubnica, near
Kalesija, where Ibric was going for lectures, that is, "brainwashing." In these
villages, Wahhabis bought hectares of land and devastated houses. They have been
living by Shari'ah rules, with their bosses coming regularly to give lectures.
These are also the places where they have been recruiting young people for their
goals, primarily those from poor families. They have also been recruiting in
these places for membership of the terrorist Islamic State and fighting in Syria
and Iraq.

It would be naive to think that Causevic, Jasarevic, and Ibric had planned their
terrorist actions themselves. This has been done by other centres of power,
which do not necessarily have to be in B-H. This is why the question is who
could be the terrorists' next target?

Since the night before last, a whole war has been waged on social networks.
Interethnic tensions are growing, and consequences could be grave. On one hand,
the Wahhabi-controlled portals are interpreting the terrorist attack against the
Zvornik police station as Ibric's revenge for the murder of his father by the
Serb Republic Army, understanding this and referring to official documents, as
they are saying, indicating that killed police officer Dragan Djuric and injured
police officer had participated in the genocide against Bosnian Muslims in
Srebrenica. On the other hand, the Serbs are being invited through social
networks to start "action for extermination of Bosnian Muslims." Several Bosnian
Muslim families allegedly left Zvornik the night before last and yesterday
morning fearing revenge. This heated atmosphere in the country was further added
to by the abuse of Zvornik case for political purposes, thus increasing
interethnic tensions, particularly with information about financial and
intelligence support coming to the Serb Republic from abroad. Only organized
action by state bodies could lessen these tensions, because the terrorist attack
against police station in Zvornik was, in fact, an attack against the state.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian 29 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

Ukraine police say Kiev robbers plotted terrorist attack

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 4 May: Officers of the Interior Ministry, the Security Service of Ukraine
[SBU] and other law enforcement agencies, thanks to their professional and
coordinated actions, have prevented an act of terrorism in the city of Kiev
during the May holidays, the Ukrainian deputy interior minister, Vasyl Paskal,
has said, commenting on the information obtained from the persons suspected of
robbing a petrol station in Kiev and killing two law enforcers during their
arrest.

"Their criminal plan failed to materialize on 1 May thanks to law enforcers' and
public's well-organized measures to protect public order. However, the criminals
did not abandon their plans and decided to realize their intent on 8-9 May," the
Interior Ministry's press service quoted Paskal on Monday [4 May] as saying.

According to him, the attackers arrived in the capital from the city of
Vinnytsya ahead of the May holidays to commit a terrorist attack.

As reported earlier, when trying to detain the suspects who committed robbery at
a petrol station, two law enforcers were killed in Desnyanskyy district of Kiev
at around 0130 on 4 May [2230 gmt on 3 May], and three more were hospitalized
with wounds, with one lawbreaker arrested. Later, the criminal died in hospital.
On Monday [4 May] morning, law enforcers arrested the other three robbers.

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1552 gmt 4 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 4, 2015 Monday 10:06 PM GMT

Hillary Clinton agrees to testify before congressional Benghazi committee - just
once - about the 2012 terror attack AND her secret emails

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR DAILYMAIL.COM and ASSOCIATED
PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1211 words



     ·    Presidential candidate will face tough grilling this month about the
          2012 terror attacks in Libya
     ·    Republicans sought closed-door, transcribed interview before public
          hearing but Clinton's lawyer said last month that she was ready to
          testify
     ·    Chairman predicted in April that 'Clinton could be done with the
          Benghazi Committee before the Fourth of July'
     ·    Former secretary of state expected to sit in the hot seat on Capitol
          Hill in the week of May 18
     ·    Her lawyer refused to let her testify a second time, however, in a
          separate follow-up hearing
     ·    Committee says only that it 'will take his response into
          consideration'


Hillary Rodham Clinton has agreed to testify this month on Capitol Hill about
the terror attacks in Benghazi, Libya, and about her controversial practice of
exclusively using a private email server while she was secretary of state.

Her lawyer David Kendall wrote to lawmakers Monday telling them she would agree
to the request from a special panel investigating the September 2012 attacks
that killed four Americans, including the U.S. ambassador to Libya.

But Kendall said Clinton would testify only for one session. 'Respectfully,' he
wrote, 'there is no basis, logic, or precedent for such an unusual request.'

The committee chairman, GOP Rep. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, had requested
that she appear twice - once for a hearing on Clinton's use of private emails
and again later on Benghazi.

Kendall said Clinton would answer all lawmakers' questions during one session
and it would not be necessary for her to appear twice.

'The secretary is fully prepared to stay for the duration of the committee's
questions on the day she appears,' he wrote.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS AND THE LETTER FROM CLINTON'S LAWYER

In response, Benghazi committee communications director Jamal Ware said in a
statement only that the panel 'will take his response into consideration' when
deciding how many hearings to schedule.

'Chairman Gowdy will issue a statement on behalf of the Committee regarding the
path forward,' Ware said.

'The committee has consistently shown it is interested in getting the facts and
doing so in a deliberate and diligent manner,' Ware added.

'As a result of the Benghazi Committee's efforts, the American people now know
about Secretary Clinton's unusual email arrangement with herself, something that
would not be known had the committee rushed to call the former secretary in
November as Committee Democrats pushed.'

The hearing - whenever it happens - will be a high-profile showdown over
Clinton's use of a private email account and server while she was secretary of
state - and allow the GOP to rehash questions about her performance before and
after the deadly assault on a diplomatic compound and a CIA annex nearby.

South Carolina Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy said last month that he wanted Clinton
to testify the week of May 18 and again before June 18.

'With her cooperation and that of the State Department and (Obama)
administration, Secretary Clinton could be done with the Benghazi Committee
before the Fourth of July,' Gowdy said then in a statement.

He believed it was necessary to call Clinton to appear twice 'because the
committee needs to ensure we have a complete and responsive record and all the
facts before we then substantively question her on the Benghazi terrorist
attacks.'

Clinton dodged questions about the Benghazi attacks last month after landing in
Washington, D.C. following a two-day presidential campaign swing in New
Hampshire.

Daily Mail Online asked her in the Reagan National Airport terminal on April 21
if she had made mistakes handling the crisis, and for her thoughts about when
she would be ready to start answering reporters' questions.

Clinton, steely-eyed, looked forward and walked silently without uttering a
word.

The GOP-led Benghazi panel signaled on April 22 that its final report could slip
to next year, just months before the presidential election.

Clinton is widely considered the front-runner for the Democratic nomination for
president.

Gowdy spokesman Jamal Ware had said that the congressman wants to complete the
panel's work by the end of the year, but said factors including witness
availability, compliance with document requests and security clearances 'could
continue to impact the timing of the inquiry's conclusion.'

Clinton has twice testified before Congress on the Benghazi matter, telling
lawmakers in 2013 that she takes responsibility for missteps by the State
Department in the months leading up to the assault.

But she insisted during that hearing that requests for more security at the
diplomatic mission in Benghazi didn't reach her desk, and reminded lawmakers
then that they have a responsibility to fund security-related budget requests.

Gowdy's April letter included more than 100 questions he and other lawmakers may
pose to Clinton about her email use, including why she considered using a
private server and what was done to vet the companies or individuals who set up
the server.

Still lingering, too, are uneasy questions about why Clinton initially blamed
the Benghazi attaks on a spontaneous protest sparked by an anti-Muslim YouTube
video produced in the United States.

American intelligence knew during the attack that it was launched by a terror
group, Ansar al-Whariah, which is affiliated with al Qaeda.

Months later, following a concussion that delayed her congressional testimony
about Benghazi, she testified in a U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee
hearing.

'The fact is we had four dead Americans,' Clinton told the senators. 'Was it
because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who
decided that they'd they go kill some Americans?'

'What difference at this point does it make?'

Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland, senior Democrat on the Benghazi panel, charged
in April that the focus on Clinton's emails came after 'Republicans' multi-year
search for evidence to back up their Benghazi conspiracy theories has turned up
nothing.'

Cummings accused Gowdy and other Republicans of a 'coordinated attempt' to 'drag
out this taxpayer-funded search for anything they can use against Hillary
Clinton, while their political arm raises campaign funds off the deaths of four
Americans.'

Clinton faces a separate controversy that could boil over into a full-blown
scandal, about pay-for-play arrangements that allegedly linked her decisions at
the State Department with donations to the Clinton Foundation and six-figure
speaking fees given to her husband, former president Bill Clinton.

But a spokesman for the Obama State Department said Monday that the agency has
found no evidence that she was improperly swayed.

'We are not aware of any evidence that actions taken by Secretary Clinton were
influenced by donation to the Clinton Foundation or speech on honoraria of
former president Clinton,' State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke told reporters
during a press briefing.

That claim came just hours before the release Tuesday of 'Clinton Cash,' a book
chronicling Clinton's tenure at State.

The book lays out a series of timelines suggesting that companies and
governments that poured millions into the Clintons' financial orbit got
preferential treatment from the State Department.

David Kendall Letter to Trey Gowdy uploaded by DailyMail.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 7:42 AM GMT

Elton Simpson: Gunman shot dead after Prophet Mohamed cartoon exhibition attack
was previous terror suspect;
Police have yet yet to officially identify either gunman

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 493 words


Police were on Monday morning said to be searching an apartment block in Arizona
linked to the men believed of launching the attack on the Texas cartoon
exhibition as reports named one of the gunmen as Elton Simpson - an individual
already known to the authorities.

ABC News said that FBI agents and members of a police bomb squad were at the
building in the north of the city of Phoenix where a robot was said to be
conducting an initial search.

It is believed that Mr Simpson, a Muslim, is the person who sent out several
messages on Twitter on Sunday, the last one using the hashtag #TexasAttack about
half an hour before the shooting.

LIVE: Aerials over Garland, Texas shooting suspects' Phoenix apartment
(WFAA/KPNX) - http://t.co/aZ7Uzf66GHpic.twitter.com/tPR068z2mT- Matthew Keys
(@MatthewKeysLive) May 4, 2015

Five years ago, a court heard testimony from an FBI informer who said that Mr
Simpson had spoken of his wish to engage in jihad, or holy war, saying: "If you
get shot, or you get killed, it's [heaven] straight away."

Police have said that two men opened fire late on Sunday outside a community
centre in Garland that was hosting an event displaying cartoons of the Prophet
Muhammad.

One unarmed security guard was injured, but other security officers managed to
fatally shoot both attackers before anyone else was hurt or killed. Texas
shooting in pictures

Reports said that four years ago, Mr Simpson was convicted of lying to federal
agents about his plans to travel to Somalia. At the hearing in March 2011, a
judge ruled that the government did not adequately prove he was going to join a
terror group there.

A summary of the court hearing suggests an FBI informant made contact with Mr
Simpson in 2007 and sounded him out regarding his attitudes about Islam.

The report says that Mr Simpson told the informant that Allah loved an
individual who is "out there fighting [non-Muslims]" and making difficult
sacrifices such as living in caves and sleeping on rocks rather than sleeping in
comfortable beds and with his wife.

Mr Simpson allegedly told the informant the rewards for such actions were high
because, "if you get shot, or you get killed, it's [heaven] straight away.
[Heaven] that's what we here for...so why not take that route?"

On Monday, the head of Mr Simpson's mosque described him as a gentle person and
said he was surprised by developments.

"Everyone I have spoken to cannot believe this," Usama Shami, president of the
Islamic Community Centre of Phoenix, told CNN. "There was no indication that he
carried these views."

Meanwhile, officials are said to be searching for the second suspect and FBI
agents are combing through files on all of Mr Simpson's known associates in
Phoenix and elsewhere. So far there has been no word on the accomplice's
identity.

Reuters said that the police in Garland, Texas, along with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, had no immediate comment on the report.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 7:02 PM GMT

Australian who posted about failed US terror attack before it happened has now
tweeted a 'how-to' guide to joining the Islamic State extremist group

BYLINE: SARAH MICHAEL, LUCY-MAE BEERS, LIAM QUINN FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and
AAP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words



     ·    Australian Twitter user has tweeted a how-to guide on joining Islamic
          State
     ·    The guide advises to pack shooting gloves and military boots
     ·    The Islamic state supporter also urged attack on cartoon contest in
          Texas
     ·    The Perth man, known only as 'Australi Witness', last week shared a
          map of the venue just days before two gunmen attacked it
     ·    He also posted the locations of Anzac Day services in Australia
     ·    Teens like Jake Bilardi were attracted to Islamic State through the
          internet


The Australian Twitter user and supporter of the Islamic State who urged an
attack on a cartoon contest in Texas has tweeted a guide on how to join the
extremist group, titled 'Hijrah (journey) to the Islamic State.'

The Perth-based man in his 20s, known only as 'Australi Witness,' posted the
chilling 50-page document on Monday night tweeting, 'a helpful guide on how to
make hijrah to the Islamic State.'

The document advises 'what to pack, who to contact and where to go,' including
how to cross the boarder to Syria and to pack shooting gloves and military
boots.

'We are winning the minds of the young generation,' the man told Fairfax  media.



'This is a war that will be won through the power of social media,' he said.

This comes after the Twitter user last week shared a map of a Garland community
centre just days before two gunmen attacked the venue and were shot dead by
police.

The man said he supported what 'our mujahideen [holy warriors] in Texas did.'

But he denied that he specifically told them to launch that attack, in which
both assailants died.

The guide advises extremists to purchase a plane ticket to an 'indirect holiday
country like Spain or Greece so their destination doesn't seem suspicious.'

According to Seven News, when asked about the 'Australi Witness', the Australian
Federal Police said it 'doesn't generally confirm or deny who it is or is not
investigating, nor does it comment on matters of intelligence.'

He also urged a threat on Queensland-based cartoonist Larry Pickering after he
drew the Islamic prophet Muhammad as a spit-roasted pig in a cartoon.

'BROTHERS IN AUSTRALIA: Cartoonist Larry Pickering has drawn the Prophet (PBUH)
as a dead pig. He lives in Queensland,' he tweeted on Monday.

He also tweeted a link to a Guardian article from January in which Pickering
claimed he was offered police protection after posting the cartoon on his
website.

On Tuesday, a spokeswoman for the Queensland Police and a spokesman for the
Australian Federal Police said authorities did not discuss matters of
intelligence.

In the U.S. on Sunday night, police shot dead two gunmen - Elton Simpson, 30,
and his roommate Nadir Soofi, 34 - after they opened fire on a security guard
outside the cartoon contest in a suburb of Dallas on Sunday night.

 He also posted addresses of synagogues in Australia and the location of Anzac
Day services.

This comes after officials revealed that Australian counter-terrorism officers
were pulling home-grown jihadis trying to travel to the Middle East off flights
leaving the country at a rate of more than one a day.

Figures obtained by News Corp Australia  state 18 travelers were caught and
'offloaded' from flights in the two weeks to April 22 at Australia's eight
international airports.

Attorney-General George Brandis is planning $1.6 million in new funding to stop
young people falling under the spell of ISIS.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 5:49 PM GMT

Revealed: The British jihadi fighting for ISIS in Syria who 'helped' Texas
Muhammed cartoon gunmen for terror group's first attack on US soil

BYLINE: JOHN HALL and ROBERT VERKAIK FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1352 words



     ·    Texas gunman urged his followers to read messages by British jihadi
          just hours before the Garland terror attack
     ·    Junaid Hussain responded by praising the shooting at the art
          exhibition
     ·    He appeared to know details of the attack before information was
          released
     ·    21-year-old was jailed in 2012 for stealing information about Tony
          Blair
     ·    Birmingham-born jihadi later fled to Syria and has been involved in a
          number of serious cyber attacks by the terrorist group


The two gunmen who carried out ISIS' first terror attack on American soil are
feared to have been helped by a Syria-based British jihadi who was once jailed
for stealing Tony Blair's personal details.

Just hours before the shooting in Garland, Texas took place, a Twitter account
understood to belong to gunman Elton Simpson, 31, demanded readers follow a
second account controlled by a notorious ISIS fighter who uses the nom de guerre
Abu Hussain al-Britani.

That man is known to be Junaid Hussain, 21 - a former computer hacker turned
jihadi who joined ISIS after fleeing his home city of Birmingham in 2013.

And within minutes of the first bullets being fired and while details of the
attack were still vague, Hussain posted messages praising the gunmen as Muslim
'brothers' and revealed their target had been a exhibition where artists were
drawing pictures of the Prophet Mohammed.

The digital connection between Simpson and Hussain raises the chilling prospect
that the Briton may well have known about the Texas terror attack in advance.

Details of the online relationship between Simpson and Hussain emerged as ISIS
militants claimed responsibility for Sunday's attack, which left 57-yer-old
security guard Bruce Joiner with gunshot wounds.

Both Simpson and his housemate Nadir Soofi, 34, were shot dead by police
officers within seconds of the pair parking their vehicle and opening fire
outside the conference centre where the right-wing American Freedom Defense
Initiative was organising the cartoon contest.

In the hours before the attack, Simpson used his Twitter account 'Sharia is the
Light' to post a series of messages about an impending 'Texas attack'.

Among these posts was a message urging his followers to subscribe to posts by
Hussain, who has long been active on the social network using the name Abu
Hussain al-Britani.

Simpson's final message read: 'The bro with me and myself have given bay'ah
[allegiance] to Amirul Mu'mineen. May Allah accept us as mujahideen [jihadists].
Make dua [pray]. #texasattack.'

The name Amirul Mu'mineen is an Islamic title meaning 'Commander of the
Faithful' and is commonly used by ISIS sympathisers to refer to the terror
group's leader - Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

Just seconds after the first shots were fired in Garland, Hussain emerged on
Twitter to post what at the time appeared to be inside information about the
attack - revealing two men were behind it and that an art exhibition had been
targeted.

'2 of our brothers just opened fire at the Prophet Muhammad (s.a.w.) art
exhibition in Texas', he wrote. A few minutes later he tweeted: 'They Thought
They Was Safe In Texas From The Soldiers of The Islamic State.'

A short time later, Twitter suspended both Hussain and Simpson's accounts -
effectively removing their posts from the social network.

The apparent link between Hussain and at least one of the Garland shooters
prompted experts to question whether the Briton had been in some way connected
to the attack.

Daveed Gartenstein-Ross 'a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, an adjunct assistant professor in Georgetown University's security
studies program, this morning said: 'The Garland attackers didn't receive
training from ISIS. The interesting question is whether Junaid Hussain knew
about the attack in advance'.

'ISIS' claim of responsibility for the Garland attack provides little new
information. Simpson's loyalty to ISIS had already been clear,' he added.

Rukmini Callimachi, security correspondent at the New York Times added that,
before the account was deleted, Simpson's 'Sharia is Light' Twitter handle had
been in contact with some 'big names' in the ISIS fold.

Included in that list was Hussain, whom Callimachi identified as the terror
group's 'top hacker'.

The news comes as it was revealed an activist linked to the international
hackers' collective Anonymous tipped off Garland police about an eminent attack
on an anti-Islam event two days before it happened - but the red flag went
unnoticed.

The Daily Dot reported that Garland Police Department had received advance
warning of the attack two days earlier, courtesy of a woman living outside the
US who has identified herself as an affiliate of the Anonymous network.

On Friday evening, the unnamed Anonymous member came upon references to a
looming attack in Garland, Texas, made by the user @AnsarAlUmmahl.

The woman then sent a message to the Garland Police Department's official
Twitter account that read: 'we feel something is in preparation about an
exposition in your city. Please follow this # twitter.com/AnsarAlUmmahl...'

But despite her efforts, her tip never made it to the desk of the right people
at the department. Garland PD spokesperson Joe Hard said he knew nothing of the
Twitter warning until yesterday.

Hussain first became known to the authorities in early 2012 when, as an
18-year-old member of the hacking collective TeaMp0isoN, he confessed to
stealing former Prime Minister Tony Blair's personal details and blocking an
anti-terror hotline with prank telephone calls.

He was jailed for just six months for the crime, which saw him publicly post
sensitive information about the Blair family online, after hacking into former
special advisor Katy Kay's email account.

Using the online alias 'Trick', Hussain uploaded phone numbers and addresses, as
well as the ex-PM's email address and National Insurance number, at the
beginning of 2011.

But he didn't stop there - continuing to post private information about Mr
Blair's wife Cherie and their children, his sister-in-law Lyndsey Booth and
friends, as well as sitting MPs and Lords.

At the time his defence barrister, Ben Cooper, claimed his crimes were no worse
than the antics of the Bullingdon Club - an exclusive society dining club for
Oxford University students, and put it down to a 'teenage prank'.

Hussain also bombarded the national anti-terror hotline with prank calls -
leaving the numbers 'permanently engaged' after calling it 111 times in three
days, Southwark Crown Court heard.

Upon being released from prison, Hussain fled to Syria where he put his hacking
skills to use on behalf of the terror group and became a prominent face of the
terror group on Twitter.

At some point Hussain groomed Sally Jones - a 45-year-old single mother from
Kent - and convincing the former punk rocker to convert to Islam, and travel
with to Syria with her 10-year-old son in order to marry the militant.

Thanks to their savvy use of social media, the couple have since been identified
as playing a key role in ISIS' recruitment of thousands of English-speaking
wannabe jihadis living in the West.

Last August Hussain - who is easily recognised online thanks to his repeated use
of a profile picture showing him with a scarf over his face and an assault rifle
in his hands - was feared to be behind a cyber plot to empty British bank
accounts to fund terrorism in the Middle East.

British financial institutions were should to have been aware of the attacks and
were working overtime to prevent their customers' funds being extracted.

'The hackers are targeting the accounts of the rich and famous, VIP clients of
banks and big businesses,' a source told the Daily Mirror at the time.

'This is an international fraud on an unprecedented scale and the result could
be a bottomless pit of money to fund their campaign of terror,' the source
added.

More recently Hussain was identified as the main suspect in the hacking of
Twitter and Facebook accounts belonging to U.S. Central Command.

That incident saw threatening messages and pro-ISIS propaganda videos being
posted from official social media accounts belonging to the United States
Defense Department.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 6:39 AM GMT

Teens accused of ISIS-inspired Anzac Day terror attack 'conspired to run down
and behead a police officer'

BYLINE: AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS and DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL
AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 485 words



     ·    Details of alleged Anzac Day terror plot have emerged in court
     ·    Prosecutors allege teens planned to run down a Victorian police
          officer
     ·    Court hears they would behead the officer
     ·    It's then alleged they would take his weapon for a violent rampage
     ·    Alleged plan bears some similarities to the Lee Rigby plot


Two Melbourne teenagers allegedly planned to run down a Victorian police
officer, behead him and take his weapon to go on a violent rampage until they
were both dead, a Melbourne court has been told.

Prosecutor Andrew Doyle read the allegations against Harun Causevic during the
18-year-old's bail application in the Melbourne Magistrates Court on Tuesday.

Causevic, who the court had previously been told was being kept in the maximum
security unit of Barwon Prison, is charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist
act with 18-year-old Sevdet Ramden Besim that allegedly targeted Anzac Day
celebrations in Melbourne.

Scroll down for video

Mr Doyle said Causevic had conducted reconnaissance at Melbourne's Shrine of
Remembrance, and on law enforcement officers.

He had in his possession knives, a tactical vest, a pledge of allegiance to
Islamic State and the Shahada flag, the court heard.

Mr Doyle said the two young men allegedly decided a Melbourne terror plot was to
be carried out if they could not obtain passports.

Magistrate Suzie Cameron Causevic was told Causevic applied for a passport on
March 2.

Federal police officer Denis Scott read to the court examples of communications
between Besim and a 14-year-old UK boy, who is also facing terror-related
charges.

During their communications, Besim allegedly indicated he had access to a
machete.

The UK teen allegedly responded: 'Sharpen that as hard as you can, then run
police over and decapitate'.

Besim allegedly replied: 'That sounds like a plan', Mr Scott told the court.

Mr Scott told the court Causevic posed a risk to the general public and law
enforcement officers if released on bail.

'They're motivated by an extreme ideology. They've expressed support for a
proscribed terrorist group,' Mr Scott said of Causevic and Besim.

He said they were willing to die and had weapons in their possession.

The alleged plot bears some resemblance to the murder of U.K. army drummer Lee
Rigby, who was run down by a car and stabbed with a knife and a cleaver in May
2013.

Defence barrister Michael O'Connell questioned Mr Scott about transcripts of the
communication between Besim and the British boy, who told Besim he wants him to
act as a 'lone wolf' and Besim replied 'okay'.

'There's no evidence that in any specific way Besim communicated what he'd been
told by the UK male,' Mr O'Connell said.

Mr Scott said there was not.

Causevic is a young man who turned 18 in January, has a mainstream Islamic
background, and no prior convictions, Mr O'Connell said.

He said the allegations against Besim were very serious, but there was no
evidence Causevic wanted to die.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as knife maniac attacks dog walker Scene Ferguslie Walk;
PROBE ; Victim was stabbed twice in back ; Man stabbed twice in the back while
he walks his dogs

BYLINE: Ron Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 441 words


Detectives are probing a savage late-night knife attack on a dog walker.

The victim was walking two of his dogs at Ferguslie Walk, Paisley, when he was
stabbed twice in the back and slashed in the head by an assailant.

Police are treating the incident, which happened at around 11pm on Sunday, as a
serious assault and have described it as a "despicable attack on an innocent
man."

They are linking the attack to an earlier incident, where a man and woman had
been involved in a disturbance moments before the 44-year-old dog walker was
knifed.

Cops believe their suspect was involved in the row prior to the attack on the
innocent bystander, and they are appealing for witnesses to help trace the
knifeman.

DS Ross McDonald of Paisley CID, who is leading the inquiry, told the Express:
"This was a despicable attack by an unknown male on an innocent man who was out
walking his dogs. "It appears there was no motive whatsoever for the attack.

We are appealing to members of the public, or to anyone who may have
information, to come forward and help us catch this man. "We believe the male
responsible TURN TO PAGE 5 FROM PAGE 1 had been involved in a disturbance with a
female, prior to the attack on the man walking his dogs.

"We will be stepping up patrols in the area to reassure residents we are doing
everything we can to catch the person responsible. Police are treating this as a
serious assault."

The victim was taken by ambulance to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley
where he received stitches to wounds in his body and head.

He was released after treatment but has been left badly shaken by his ordeal.

Officers said a cyclist who was wearing a yellow high-visibility vest may hold
the vital details about the incident, as he was seen in the area at the time of
the attack.

Police would also like to trace the driver of a light-coloured car and another
motorist at the wheel of a dark-coloured car, who may have seen the attack.
Police are appealing for these people to come forward as potential witnesses.

Cops yesterday cordoned off the scene of the attack and carried out forensic
analysis.

Officers said they are working without a description of the suspect, because the
victim was unable to provide details of his attacker.

However, cops are scrutinising CCTV images of the area, canvassing witnesses and
carrying out door-to-door inquiries.

Anyone with information is urged to call Paisley Police on the 101 non-emergency
contact number.

Alternatively, they can ring CrimeStoppers on 0800 555 111 where anonymity can
be maintained.

This was a despicable attack by an unknown male on an innocent man who was out
walking his dogs DS Ross McDonald

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 5, 2015 Tuesday 10:46 AM GMT

How big a threat are Isil-inspired terror attacks to the US and western Europe?;

Big Question: Lone wolf attacks such as those in Texas, Boston and Paris present
relatively little threat in their own right, but have the potential to drive a
damaging wedge between authorities and minority communities

BYLINE: By Jill Russell, King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 720 words


Waking yesterday morning to the news that an attack had occurred in Texas which
may have been inspired, if not directed, by Isil  inspires a visceral sense of
dread.

Such a response to unexpected violence is natural..

Furthermore, with the Lone Wolf stratagem it seems that Isil has hit upon an
idea which could, in theory, unleash a maddening horde within western societies.

Given the spectre of such a ghastly possibility, how should we reckon the threat
of such attacks?

Overstated threat?

At the level of tangible damage, in fact such attacks present no real
existential threat.

Despite the seeming ease and simplicity of a potential Lone Wolf campaign, to
achieve anything beyond isolated violence exceeds the capabilities of the
potential jihadists.

Charlie Hebdo                      is an excellent example of the hysteria that
a relatively low-level attack can achieve.

Those most likely to be susceptible to this call to arms are, fortunately, not
masterminds. The Tsarnaev brothers in Bostonare an instance of such terrorists
undone by their incompetence.

More boldly, it is not exceptional to say that these acts hold little power to
inflict damage of any strategic consequence in and of themselves.

There is a significant possible threat from these attacks, yes, but the actual
risk of and from them is rather less.

Western response

Looking to the political effect, the West is further protected.

At its simplest, terrorism operates by using spectacle to inspire fear and lead
political change. Against this direct bullying, states are consistent in their
standard refusal to alter policies or make concessions as demanded by
terrorists.

Nevertheless, even as these attacks do not imperil our security or political
freedom on their own, how we in the West will respond to them may in fact cause
the greater damage, nowhere more so than in the very communities and societies
which we seek to protect.

Isil's strategy makes targets of the more vulnerable members of Western
societies. In the current climate of the jihadi threat and Muslim communities in
the West, the Lone Wolf becomes a cruel blight upon them, casting all under the
pall of doubt.

Isil's claim of responsibility for the latest attack in Garland, TX
, will bring a backlash.

Unfortunately, aggressive methods and measures to counter the threat will fall
like a blunt weapon upon a greater demographic than deserves.

This problem becomes more acute in the nexus between Muslim communities and
other minorities. When we take into account the disaffection for the police
within minority communities, the prospects that these responses will increase
the hostility is high.

These are the same communities with whom the authorities in Western states must
build better relations.

Opportunity

This is a crucial moment, and how we will respond to the threat by way of the
authorities' interactions with these minorities will matter.

It would be too tragically easy for Western governments to allow fear to drive a
wedge of suspicion between them and the relevant communities.

This would serve the Lone Wolf strategy by increasing the number of marginalised
and angry individuals susceptible to Isil's call to action.

The fabric of our diverse societies could be mortally wounded by rash and
ill-considered responses to this threat.

But it is equally true that this is a moment where the terms of Western society
could be strengthened, its wisdom reaffirmed.

In addition to every bit of fine, proactive counter-terror tactic and policy,
the single best weapon against Isil and its immediate and long-term threats
within Western societies is the strength of relations between the relevant
communities and individuals and the authorities.

Local knowledge and assistance are the most effective answers to lone wolves,
plots, and radicalisation.

Every action taken to build rapport, trust and respect will not only be an
improvement to security, but will be a down-payment on the security and vibrancy
of society in years to come.

In the short term it would be unwise to give too much credence to the actions of
Isil's lone wolves.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 6, 2015 Wednesday 11:00 PM GMT

Islamic State: 'Trained soldiers' in 15 US states ready to launch deadly terror
attacks

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 517 words


ISLAMIC State have "trained soldiers" in 15 states across America waiting to
carry out deadly missions, according to an online warning from the group.

GETTY

The online warning claimed there were 71 trained soldiers operating on American
soil

The jihadi terror network is centred in the Middle East but has made inroads in
the US in recent weeks.

The group claimed responsibility for an attack on an event in Texas at the
weekend where cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed were on display.

Two gunmen were shot dead during the firefight, in what was IS's first attack on
US soil.

Now, a ominous warning has been issued by a jihadist based in America, who
boasts that IS has 23 fighters "signed up" for attacks similar to that witnessed
on Sunday.

The threatening post, which could not be independently verified, was seen by US
broadcaster Fox News after it appeared on a file-sharing network.

It has been signed by Abu Ibrahim Al Ameriki - a name already known to
authorities.

He is thought to have joined a terrorist group in Pakistan several years ago and
experts believe the US-based jihadi has also appeared in IS propaganda videos in
the past.

AP

Two men opened fire on police on Sunday night who were guarding a contest for
Muhammed cartoons

The chilling warning lists five states where sleeper cells are operating, and
claims the group have 71 operatives under its command.

"Out of the 71 trained soldiers 23 have signed up for missions like Sunday, we
are increasing in number," read the warning.

"Of the 15 states, 5 we will name... Virginia, Maryland, Illinois, California,
and Michigan."

The Texas attack on a 'Draw the Prophet' contest on Sunday was thwarted when
police shot dead both gunmen.

Referring to the attack, the post added: "The disbelievers who shot our brothers
think that you killed someone untrained, nay, they gave you their bodies in
plain view because we were watching."

FBI director James Comey revealed in February that the US police agency was
investigating IS links in all fifty US states, describing the terror group's
network as a "chaotic spider web".

Related articles The terrifying armoury of ISIS: Jihadi group boasts tanks and
jets at its disposal Islamic State: British 'musketeers' appeal for public
funding to fight terrorists PICTURED: Islamic State opens luxury hotel...but
guests face beheading if they break rules

"Those people exist in every state. I have homegrown violent extremist
investigations in every single state," he said at the time.

"Until a few weeks ago there was 49 states. Alaska had none which I couldn't
quite figure out.

"But Alaska has now joined the group so we have investigations of people in
various stages of radicalising in all 50 states."

The worsening situation comes as US authorities offered a $20million bounty on
four IS leaders.

The American government is targeting Abd al Rahman Mustafa al Qaduli, Abu
Mohammed al Adnani, Tarkhan Tayumurazovich Batirashvili, and Tariq Bin al Tahar
Bin al Falih al Awni al Harzin - described as "key leaders" in the terror
network.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 6, 2015 Wednesday 3:59 PM GMT

Four people arrested in Germany over planned terror attack on Muslims and asylum
seekers;
Three men and one woman were detained after raids in five German states

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 140 words


Four people have been arrested in Germany on suspicion of planning to attack
mosques and hotels accommodating asylum seekers.

The suspects are accused of forming a far-right group known as the "Old Schools
Society" and obtaining explosives, according to the BBC.

The German prosecutor's office said the four German nationals were arrested in
raids conducted in Bavaria, Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate
and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.

The prosecutor's office said in a statement: "In the search, pyrotechnics with
large explosive power and further pieces of evidence were confiscated."

Authorities said they have not yet established whether the group had decided on
specific targets or dates to launch any attack on.

They will appear before the investigating judge of the Federal Court on
Thursday, according to reports.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Bath Chronicle

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Fire attack: was cartoon firm target for terror?

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 505  words


Police are investigating whether an arson attack on a cafe in George Street may
have been the work of terrorists targeting a cartoon publishing company in the
building.

Arsonists threw a device through the letterbox in the early hours of Tuesday
morning, causing extensive damage to the hallway and Adventure Cafe on the
ground floor.

It was a serious attack, causing severe damage to the cafe. The device burnt
straight through the carpet and set fire to the inside of the door.

Although the fire spread rapidly, fire doors in the cafe and on the ground floor
prevented it from spreading right through the building.

There was nobody inside at the time - the cafe had been closed since 11pm and
nobody lives on the premises.

However, police have confirmed to the Bath Chronicle that officers are following
a line of inquiry that a cartoon publishing company called CartoonStock upstairs
in the building may have been the actual target of the attack.

The company sells humorous and political cartoons to customers all over the
world from its base in George Street.

Clients include The Guardian, The Times and Newsweek magazine.

A statement on CartoonStock's website says: "Based in the city of Bath in the
West of England, CartoonStock was founded in early 1997 as a stock-house through
which quality cartoonists could sell unpublished work, or work in which they had
retained the copyright."

The company was contacted by the Bath Chronicle, but they did not want to make a
comment on the record before we went to press.

A spokesman for Avon and Somerset police confirmed they were looking into the
possibility that CartoonStock may have been the target.

When asked whether the incident could have been an act of terrorism the
spokesman said: "It is definitely a line of inquiry we are following and CID
officers are investigating it."

Last January two gunmen attacked the offices of French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo, which publishes comical and satirical political cartoons, killing
11 people and injuring 12.

The attack caused  outrage around the world.

Fireman were called to the scene in Bath after a passer-by smelt smoke coming
from the building at around 1.30am.

Owner of the Adventure Cafe Andy McGonigle said he could not think of any reason
why arsonists would want to target his business.

He said: "We have been here for nearly 16 years, the cafe is really popular and
we have fantastic customers and staff."

Mr McGonigle was still in shock yesterday after the attack, but said he wanted
to thank the fire service and police for doing a fantastic job.

"It could have been a lot worse and I am just thankful there was nobody in the
building at the time.

"My staff have been fantastic. There was a lot of smoke damage and we all spent
almost two days cleaning to get the cafe open again.

"Thankfully the fire doors did their job and stopped the fire spreading. It
could have been a whole lot worse."

The Adventure Cafe is now open again while police and fire investigation
officers continue to examine forensic evidence from the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fire damage on the front door of Adventure Cafe
PICTURE: Artur Lesniak BAAL20150506A-002

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan court extends detention of varsity terror attack suspects

LENGTH: 502 words


Text of report by Vincent Agoya entitled "Five Garissa terrorist attack suspects
to be held for more days, court rules" published by Kenyan privately-owned
newspaper Daily Nation website on 7 May; subheading as published

Five suspects held over the Garissa University College terrorist attack [in
northeastern Kenya] will spend a second month in police custody pending
investigations, a Nairobi court has ruled.

This follows a fresh request for extended custodial orders against Osman Abdi
Dakane, Rashid Charles Mberesero, alias Rehani Dida, Muhammad Abdi Abikar,
Hassan Aden Hassan and Sahal Diriye Husayn.

The five were arrested in connection with the 2 April invasion at the university
in which 148 people, among them 142 students, were killed.

An earlier detention order granted to the police to finalise investigations
before charging the suspects expired on Thursday.

However, one of the men held alongside the suspects has since been released from
police custody, while more than 10 other suspects have been arrested following
intensive interrogations, the prosecution said on Thursday [7 May].

The court was told the released suspect, who was an employee at a hotel where
the terrorist ate, was set free after investigations revealed "that the
attackers fed at the hotel without his knowledge".

"So far the phone data belonging to the suspects in custody have been analysed
and they do reflect that they are directly connected to the Al-Shabab group in
Somalia," prosecutor Daniel Karuri told the court.

Call data records

He said the call data records show that the suspects made calls to suspected
Al-Shabab agents within and outside the country prior to the attack.

'The investigators require to interrogate the persons whom the calls were made
to and who were in constant communication with the suspects," the prosecutor
said.

He said it has been impossible to cover the far-flung regions including Somalia
and Mandera and Garissa within the initial 30 days that the court granted.

Mr Karuri told the court that investigators have so far been able to travel to
Tanzania where one of the suspects, Mberesero, comes from and "his parents and
relatives were unable to explain when he disappeared from home."

"Investigations are ongoing in regard to detailed forensic examinations of the
scene of crime at the university, including extraction of mobile phone records,"
the prosecutor said.

He said several leads were being followed and an additional 30 days were
reasonable as the Prevention of Terrorism Act allows detention for a total of 90
days.

"Once investigations are complete we expect to charge the suspects with
terrorism-related offences," Mr Karuri told the court.

The suspects opposed the request for extended detention but were told the matter
"was serious and related to an attack in which over 100 people were killed."

Principal Magistrate Kenneth Cheruyoit ordered the suspected detained till 4
June in various undisclosed police stations in the city.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 7 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Army Thwarts Terrorist Attack In Sinai Peninsula

LENGTH: 85  words



HIGHLIGHT: On May 5, the Egyptian army thwarted a 'terrorist attack' targeting a
checkpoint in the Sheikh Zuwaid city in the northern region of the Sinai
Peninsula.


News: On May 5, the Egyptian army reportedly thwarted a terrorist attack on a
checkpoint in the Sheikh Zuwaid city in the northern region of the Sinai
Peninsula, according to army spokesperson Mohamed Samir. A group of around 20
terrorists fired mortar shells on the checkpoint followed by heavy gunfire;
however, the security forces fired back at them, according to the spokesperson.
'The attack left three terrorists dead while others managed to escape, leaving
behind their ammunition,' said Samir (Video News).

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

ELECTION SECURITY BLITZ;
BATTLE FOR WESTMINSTER PSNI checkpoints return as dissident terror gangs step up
bomb attacks Bid to keep dissident terror in check

BYLINE: CHRIS KILPATRICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 288 words


CHECKPOINTS returned to the streets of Northern Ireland yesterday as police
ramped up security ahead of today's General Election.

There were a number of roadblocks - commonplace throughout the Troubles - across
Belfast following a spate of dissident republican attacks.

The terror gangs have stepped up their sinister activity ahead of today's vote
with bomb alerts in Belfast and Derry.

Assistant Chief Constable Stephen Martin said: "The dissident republican threat
remains severe and the PSNI will have an enhanced profile in local communities
to provide safety and reassurance to everyone."

There was also an increased police presence in Belfast city centre, with
additional patrols in place on arterial routes throughout the day.

Mr Martin said: "I apologise in advance for any inconvenience this operation may
cause, but seek the public's support, patience and understanding in what we
believe is a necessary step to attempt to prevent those with murderous intent
going about their business.

"This is not a decision we take lightly and we will endeavour to ensure that the
balance of how we police this threat is right, as well as trying to keep
disruption to a minimum. However, please be assured we will always prioritise
public safety.

"There is no perfect security solution to terrorism. Long term success against
the small group of people intent on causing disruption and harm to the community
needs a combination of policing, community and political efforts and it is vital
we all play our part."

Checkpoints were brought back last Christmas amid fears dissidents would target
revellers.

Peter Robinson and Martin McGuinness yesterday issued a joint statement in which
they vowed not to be "deterred by the bullet or the bomb".

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER PSNI officer in Belfast yesterdayON ALERT Police officer
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 7, 2015 Thursday 5:44 PM GMT

Canada could soon get spying powers similar to US spy agencies;
Last year's terrorist attack on the capital has encouraged changes to spy agency

BYLINE: Payton Guion

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 275 words


A deadly terror attack last year in the Canadian capital has prompted lawmakers
in that country to consider expanding the powers of its spy agency and
legislation to that effect has taken an important step toward becoming law.

The Canadian House of Commons on Wednesday voted to approve the Anti-Terror Act
and the Senate is expected to pass the bill before the end of this month,
according to the BBC.

Canadian lawmakers pass anti-terror Bill C-51 boosting spy agency powers despite
protests http://t.co/jazWiQiFxJpic.twitter.com/wRpFKV7He3hyphen; RT (@RT_com)
May 7, 2015

The Anti-Terror Act would give the Canadian Security Intelligence Service power
to operate overseas, make preventative arrests and prosecute those who promote
terrorism on the internet, among other things.

"There is a high probability of jihadist attacks from within," Canadian Defence
Minister Jason Kenney told the BBC. "The threat of terrorism has never been
greater."

Canada has seen a rise in home-grown terrorism recently, including the October
attack when a gunman killed a soldier at the National War Memorial before
attacking nearby parliament buildings.

Despite advancing through Canadian government, the bill is not without critics.
Former leaders and five Supreme Court justices have publicly questioned
increasing spying powers.

"This bill will almost certainly lead to a chill on freedom of speech," Allan
Weiss, professor of humanities at York University, told the BBC. "It is filled
with vague wording that would make it possible for the government to label
virtually anything it disagreed with as harmful to Canada's national interests."

Follow @PaytonGuion on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

Ukraine foils terrorist attack in town bordering rebel-held area

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 8 May

Terrorists have planned a major terrorist attack in Svyatohirsk [a town in
Ukraine's Donetsk Region] on 9 May.

According to the press service of the ATO [antiterrorist operation]
headquarters, Ukrainian explosive ordnance disposal specialists, while
inspecting the Lysa Hora memorial complex, where ceremonial events [dedicated to
the Victory Day] are to be held, discovered three improvised explosive devices
planted by militants. The territory was examined with the help of trained dogs.

The criminals planned to trigger the bombs with remote controls. According to
the field engineers, had the saboteurs managed to set off these devices, there
would be many casualties, as the plastic bottles with explosives also contained
pieces of cut steel rods.

Suspicious activity near the war memorial was reported by local residents.
Special forces used a helicopter to inspect the surrounding area and already in
the air received information about a suspicious car.

After the detention, they found ammunition and weapons, particularly, an assault
rifle and anti-tank grenade launchers, in the vehicle.

Tentatively, the unknown persons' actions were qualified as a terrorist attack.
Ultimately, all the circumstances will be established by the Security Service of
Ukraine [SBU].

[The antiterrorist operation press centre posted a video of the car detention on
its Facebook page on 8 May: tinyurl.com/odmed5j]

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0800 gmt 8 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

Authorities Arrest Three For Planning Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 50  words



HIGHLIGHT: Czech authorities have arrested three people on suspicion of
allegedly plotting a terrorist attack on a train.


News: Czech authorities have arrested three people on suspicion of plotting a
terrorist attack on a train, according to state prosecution spokesperson
Stepanka Zenklova on May 6. The three suspects - who have not been identified -
face up to life imprisonment if found guilty of charges, Zenklova stated.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday

Two Egyptian policemen die of injuries after "terrorist" attack in Sinai

LENGTH: 83 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Al-Arish, Egypt, 9 May: Two policemen succumbed to wounds they had sustained in
a terrorist attack in Arish earlier on Friday [8 May].

A number of gunmen in a car opened fire at the policemen as they passed in front
of a youth centre in Al-Masa'id area in Al-Arish[North Sinai governorate] .

Ala Ahmad Fayid, 32 and Ahmad Muhammad Abd-al-Ra'uf, 28, died after being
admitted to hospital.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0619gmt 09 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        May 10, 2015 Sunday 8:43 PM GMT

Intelligence leaders cite Texas attack before deadline on NSA surveillance;
Senior figures take to talk shows after NSA phone data collection ruled
illegalHouse security chair says Garland 'Isis' attack shows 'terrorism has gone
viral'

BYLINE: Dan Roberts in Washington and Martin Pengelly in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 838 words


Related: NSA mass phone surveillance revealed by Edward Snowden ruled illegal

Washington's intelligence leaders flooded US television studios on Sunday, to
warn of the dangers of homegrown terrorism in a concerted push that coincided
with a looming deadline to reauthorise the domestic surveillance powers of the
National Security Agency.

Seizing on last week's failed attack on a Texas contest to draw cartoons of the
prophet Muhammad, the chairmen of three congressional security committees, two
former CIA directors and the secretary for homeland security all urged greater
scrutiny of domestic extremists they claim have been inspired by the Islamic
State.

"Terrorism has gone viral," said Michael McCaul, the Republican chair of the
House homeland security committee, telling Fox News Sunday there were "thousands
of people in the United States who will take up this call to arms when Isis
sends out an internet missive, a tweet, to launch a terror act like we saw in
Garland in Texas".

"We are very definitely in a new phase in the global terrorism threat where the
so-called lone wolf could strike at any moment," said Jeh Johnson, Barack
Obama's secretary for homeland security, on ABC.

Former CIA director Michael Hayden told CNN: "I think the tide's coming in and
we're going to see more of what we saw in Texas last week."

Little evidence has yet emerged to support Isis claims of direct responsibility
for the Garland attack, in which the two gunmen were the only people killed,
although FBI director James Comey has argued that the distinction between
inspiring and directing attacks is "irrelevant", claiming social media
propaganda meant "it's almost as if there is a devil sitting on the shoulder
saying, 'kill, kill, kill,' all day long".

"This threat is like finding a needle in a haystack and it's going to get worse,
not better," McCaul added. "I think the threat environment today is one of the
highest I have ever seen."

Controversial NSA powers to monitor suspicious communication by collecting all
American phone records are due to expire at the end of the month, a circumstance
that was dramatically complicated by a US appeal court judgment on Thursday
ruling the practice first revealed by Edward Snowden to be unlawful.

A number of lawmakers warned on Sunday the Garland attack showed why it was
essential Congress face down opposition to the so-called "bulk collection"
programme and reauthorise the original Patriot Act provision, despite Thursday's
legal challenge.

"I hope that the reality of the situation, the reality of the threats we face,
will actually play a great part in terms of exactly how Congress responds,"
Senate homeland security chairman Ron Johnson told CNN.

"Our first line of defence is an effective intelligence-gathering capability,"
the Wisconsin Republican added. "I think the demagoguery and the revelations of
Edward Snowden have done a great deal of harm to our ability to gather that
information."

Richard Burr, Republican chair of the Senate intelligence committee, also
insisted the Patriot Act provision should be reauthorised rather than amended
when it expires on 1 June.

"It's very effective at keeping America safe," he told ABC, claiming the
alternative USA Freedom Act, which would rely on phone companies to keep records
rather than the NSA, "turns us back to pre-9/11" days.

Related: Republicans put plans to reauthorise Patriot Act on hold after court
ruling

But the court of appeals decision, which rejected the argument that bulk
collection is permissible even under the existing Patriot Act, has dramatically
complicated attempts by Senate Republicans to reauthorise it in the eight
remaining days that both chambers are sitting this month. It may force them to
choose between backing the more moderate USA Freedom Act or seeing all
surveillance authority vanish when the current law lapses.

Privacy concerns among Republicans in the House have led committee leadership
there to join forces with the White House and many Democrats to back the USA
Freedom Act.

"I think that's where we are going to see the Congress heading towards, and the
courts have certainly gone in that direction," McCaul said on Sunday.

"As long as we can get information in real time from the private sector, I think
we can forge the right balance between [privacy and security]."

Dianne Feinstein, the previous chair of the Senate intelligence committee and
one of the more hawkish Democrats, agreed the USA Freedom Act was probably the
best option remaining for the NSA, though she expressed concerns about whether
it would work.

"The president, the House and a number of members of the Senate believe that we
need to change that programme and the way to change it is simply to go to the
Fisa court for a query, for permission to go to a telecom and get that data,"
the California senator told NBC.

"The question is whether the telecoms will hold the data and the answer to that
question is somewhat mixed. I know the president believes the telecoms will hold
the data. I think we should try that."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              May 10, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BGT COP I WAS SLASHED BY MAD JUNKIE;
Beyoncé singer in attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 34 words


EXCLUSIVE ¦ BRITAIN'S Got Talent sensation Aaron Carty, whose Beyoncé
impersonation was a hit on last night's show, had his wrist slashed by a crazed
junkie during his time as a police officer.

SEE PAGES 6-7

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSSscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

Macedonia PM says "most dangerous terrorist group" in Balkans behind attacks

LENGTH: 801 words


Text of report in English by Macedonian state news agency MIA

[Unattributed report: "Prime Minister Gruevski Says Terror Group in Kumanovo Was
Planning Mass Murder Attacks"]

Skopje, 10 May 2015 (MIA) -- Macedonian Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski said that
the police action in the city of Kumanovo through Saturday and in early Sunday
[9-10 May] was launched after the Interior Ministry received information that a
large and well-armed group was preparing major terror attacks on civilian and
state targets. Gruevski said that the fighting lasted for 28 hours nearly
without a pause, and added that its complexity has surpassed anything Macedonia
has ever dealt with before, including in the 2001 conflict. Eight policemen were
killed and 37 wounded, and so far 14 bodies of members of the terror group have
been recovered, but more are thought to be in the ruins of the houses where they
were hiding in. Additional 30 insurgents were captured.

"The operation was carried out in a completely responsible manner by
professionals from the Interior Ministry. Police officers, which included
members from all ethnic groups and religious creeds, Macedonians, Albanians,
Turks, Roma, Serbs, Bosniaks, Vlachs, performed a highly complex, patriot,
heroic action in which they neutralized the terrorists who were planning mass
murder in Macedonia with the goal to destabilize the country. Unfortunately,
eight officers lost their lives. We lost eight men who have helped prevent the
murder of possibly 8,000. Praise them," Gruevski said at the press conference in
the Macedonian Government.

The prime minister also expressed his gratitude to the officers who were injured
in the fighting, to the medical staff, but also to all the citizens who
"displayed restraint and self-control and didn't make moves that could have
further deteriorated the otherwise very complex situation. Some of the media
were attempting to stir up anger among the Albanians in Macedonia, but they
didn't fall for these provocations. I want to send a clear message -- this is
not a confrontation between Macedonians and Albanians. This was a confrontation
between persons who didn't wish well to the country and all of its citizens, and
officers who protect the country, the Constitution, and order. The actions of
this group would have brought harm both to Macedonia and to ethnic Albanians."

He confirmed earlier information given by the Interior Ministry that about 30
members of the group have surrendered, adding they will be put to trial before
Macedonian courts. Initial information, Gruevski said, indicate that the same
group performed an earlier attack on a border police station in the village of
Gosince, close to the border with Kosovo, where four Macedonian officers were
disarmed and ordered to leave the area.

"So far 14 bodies presumed to be of the members of the terrorist group have been
recovered, but investigation on the ground is still on-going. Some of the
members of the group have already taken part in earlier conflicts, some of them
in our region, and some in the Middle East. They had enormous experience in
guerrilla and terror tactics and were considered the most dangerous terrorist
group in the Balkans," Gruevski said. Its leaders were identified by the
Interior Ministry as Muhamed Krasniqi, Sami Ukshini, Mirsad Ndrecay, Beg Rizay,
and Deme Shehu, at least some of whom are believed to have been captured. All
five are citizens of Kosovo. The group also included Macedonian citizens.

The fighting took place in a largely ethnic Albanian part of the city of
Kumanovo, which has a majority Macedonian population and also a large Serbian
community, and is close to the borders with both Kosovo and Serbia. The
south-western part of the city is a densely populated maze of houses and narrow
streets, and Prime Minister Gruevski said that the terrain and the caution the
officers had to display presuming civilians could be in every house added
enormously to the difficulty of the operation. The armed group also put up
fierce resistance against the police special forces, using grenade launchers,
automatic weapons, and snipers, and, while some were surrendering, others were
actually increasing the level of their resistance.

Prime Minister Gruevski also expressed his gratitude to the citizens who offered
to help during the crisis, to the mayor of Kumanovo, to the Army, and other
institutions which were in constant communication with the Interior Ministry.

President Ivanov is holding a meeting of the National Security Council at 17:30
[1530 GMT], which, on top of [in addition to] the state leadership and
government ministers, is also expected to include some of the main political
party leaders. The president is expected to speak after the council

Source: MIA news agency, Skopje, in English 1502 gmt 10 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

Russia spreads rumours about Crimean Tatars planning "terrorist" attack - leader

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 11 May

[Presenter] The self-proclaimed government of Crimea spreads rumours about
Ukrainian nationalists' intentions to carry out terrorist attacks ahead of the
anniversary of the Crimean Tatar genocide [Stalin-era deportation of Crimean
Tatars on suspicion of collaboration with the Nazis during World War II] on 18
May, Refat Chubarov, the head of the Crimean Tatar Majlis [Crimean Tatar
self-styled government], has said in an interview to 5 Kanal.

According to him, the Majlis applied to hold a memorial rally but has not
received any official response.

Meanwhile, the authorities intimidate the Crimean Tatars.

[Chubarov] We already have the signs, for example, yesterday one self-proclaimed
deputy premier of the self-proclaimed Crimean government said that the law
enforcers had reliable information that Ukrainian nationalists, I quote,
together with [Crimean Tatar leader Mustafa] Dzhemilyev and Chubarov had been
preparing a series of terrorist acts ahead of 18 May but the authorities would
do everything to prevent such developments. I think that this is the beginning
of a response regarding the memorial rally.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0600 gmt 11 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        May 11, 2015 Monday 3:42 AM GMT

Melbourne teenager appears in court to face two terrorism-related charges;
Boy, 17, from Melbourne's northern suburbs, charged with possessing things
connected with a terrorist attack, and preparing for such an attack

BYLINE: Melissa Davey

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


A 17-year-old Melbourne teenager has appeared in a children's court to face two
terrorism-related charges.

Because of his age, the boy from Melbourne's northern suburbs cannot be named.
He was arrested on Friday night at his home where he was living with his
parents.

Police allegedly found three homemade explosive devices in a search of the
house. The police bomb squad later detonated the devices after setting up an
exclusion zone nearby.

Appearing before the court on Monday, the boy faced one charge of possessing
things connected with a terrorist act, and one charge of preparing for a
terrorist attack.

He will next appear before the court for further mention on 26 May. No bail
application was made.

A lawyer representing a media organisation, Justin Quill, applied for permission
to name the teenager, arguing the case was a "matter of the highest public
interest requiring the fullest reporting possible", but the judge rejected the
application.

Naming him would "not be good for his mental health and physical health in
detention", the judge said.

The court heard the boy's family was surprised by the arrest.

The acting deputy commissioner for Victoria police, Robert Hill, told reporters
on Sunday the boy had a "caring, loving family that are now very, very
distraught as a consequence of what is alleged".

"It has undoubtedly taken them by surprise," he said.

The judge said whether the boy's parents could visit him while he remained in
detention was a matter for the corrections department.

"It would be unfortunate if family were not allowed to visit him," the judge
said.

Police did not make any allegations that the teenager was targeting a specific
event.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        May 11, 2015 Monday 8:02 PM GMT

Bar Bibo landlady slams 'soft touch' court over sentences handed to thug Dowling
brothers for vicious attack;
Andrew and John Dowling terrorised siblings Patricia Middleton and Keith Wood
when they were asked to leave their Northenden pub because Andrew had previously
been barred

BYLINE: By Chris Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


A landlady has hit out at the 'soft' sentences handed to thugs who battered her
and her brother in a brutal revenge attack.

Patricia Middleton and Keith Wood were brutally assaulted after barring one of
the yobs, a court heard.

The sickening attack unfolded in Bar Bibo in Northenden on a busy Friday night
in January.

Brothers Andrew, 35 and John Dowling, 45, entered the pub at around 9.15pm but
were asked to leave as Andrew had been banned following a previous incident, the
court was told.

But a short time later, Mr Wood was suddenly cornered in the gents toilets by
John Dowling who slammed his head against the wall, hitting a metal pipe and
causing a blood to spurt from a two-inch gash.

Furious John Dowling then launched a flurry of at least six punches, accusing
the landlord of 'disrespecting' his family.

Mr Wood eventually wriggled free and ran into the bar.

After seeing the injuries suffered by her brother, Mrs Middleton grabbed Dowling
and tried to restrain him.

However Andrew Dowling then got involved and punched her in the face knocking
her over a table.

The pair were eventually bundled out of the boozer but continued to kicked the
door and also threw a concrete slab against the window until police arrived.

Mr Wood was taken to hospital where he required three stitches to his head
wound.

John Dowling, of Shannon Road, Crossacres in Wythensawe, pleaded guilty to
unlawful wounding and affray at an earlier hearing.

He has now been jailed for a year by a judge at Manchester Crown Court.

Andrew Dowling, of Broadoak Road, Benchill, admitted assault and affray.

He was handed a 12-month community order which requires him to be supervised by
the probation service.

Although both men expressed remorse over the attack, Mr Justice Openshaw said:
"The attack was entirely unprovoked and caused serious injuries.

"People who attack landlords and landladies in their premises richly deserve a
period of imprisonment.

"Andrew Dowling you are in a different position. I find the letter from your
daughter persuasive.

"You are someone who would benefit from the input of the probation service."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 11, 2015 Monday 5:58 PM GMT

British 'neo-Nazi allegedly planned copycat Anders Breivik terror attack because
he was bullied as a child for having ginger hair'

BYLINE: GEMMA MULLIN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 890 words



     ·    Mark Colborne, 37, was allegedly stockpiling equipment to make cyanide
     ·    His half brother found receipts for ingredients purchased from Amazon
     ·    Colborne planned to spray deadly poison at ethnic minorities, court
          told
     ·    Old Bailey hears note written by Colborne said he was planning 'a mass
          terrorist attack that would put a major dent in England'
     ·    Colborne denies preparing terrorist acts and the trial continues


A British 'neo-Nazi' who is accused of plotting an Anders Breivik style terror
attack claims it was because he was bullied as a child for having ginger hair.

Mark Colborne, 37, had started stockpiling equipment and the ingredients for
making cyanide in his bedroom at the home he shared with his mother in
Southampton, a court heard today.

The Old Bailey was told he planned to spray the deadly poison at ethnic
minorities to publicise his racist beliefs around the world and compared himself
to Norwegian terrorist, Anders Breivik.

But Colborne's plans were foiled when his half-brother Kevin found receipts for
chemicals bought on Amazon on the landing floor while decorating in June last
year and told his mother, Patricia.

When police were called they found books about poisons and explosives titled
'Silent Death', 'Assorted Nasties', and 'The Poor Man's James Bond', the court
heard.

Detectives also found spray bottles which could be used to squirt cyanide at his
victims and a chemical that helped poisons penetrate through the skin, it is
claimed.

Colborne's handwritten notes boasted: 'I will put a major dent in England one
that is felt around the world, if for some reason I cannot perform a major
operation then I will still opt for low level attacks.'

He added: 'I'm looking for major retribution, a mass terrorist attack which will
bring to the attention our pain not just mine but my brothers around the world.'



Prosecutor Annabel Darlow QC said: 'He clearly had experienced a troubled
childhood and perceived himself as marginalised and belittled by society because
he was a white, ginger-haired male.'

She added that Colborne's ideology and aims were clear from the handwritten
notes and diary entries recovered from his bedroom.

'In these notes he referred to his racial hatred for those who are non-Aryans -
who he refers to as "blacks and Caucasian idiots" and his hatred of the
prevailing system and organs of the state.

'He wrote about his wish to commit a terrorist act in order to publicise his own
beliefs.

'He compared himself to the right wing terrorist extremists who had gone on to
massacre hundreds, men like Timothy McVeigh the American terrorist and Anders
Breivik, who committed the atrocities in Norway.'

Colborne also wrote that he identified with the Nazi Heinrich Himmler, the court
heard.

In an entry from 19 November 2011 he stated: 'I identify with Heinrich Himmler.
He had Jewish blood and was born Aryan. It was a curse to be born Aryan among
dark-haired Caucasian fascists.

'I believe a lot about inflicting pain in a struggle because it makes people
remember, the deaths on people is the sacrifice that cannot be avoided in a
struggle.

'What a dream it would be to form a government in and land not occupied by
Caucasian Tyranny and belong to our people to live free.'

Miss Darlow said Colborne, who suffers from agoraphobia, appeared to have ruled
out an attack using explosives because it was too complicated.

He made a specific plan to make cyanide in March 2014, the court heard.

On March 17 last year he bought iron oxide and sodium carbonate as well as
dimethyl sulphoxide and distilled water and a week later bought pine charcoal.

Miss Darlow said: 'His activities went further than simply acquiring the recipes
and technical guidance required to make weapons of destruction.

'He acquired chemicals over the internet which formed the constituent
ingredients of the deadly poison, cyanide, an extremely toxic poison with the
ability to kill within seconds.

'He purchased small glass spray bottles, which could be used to transport and
spray cyanide at his chosen victims once they had been selected.'

She added that he stockpiled items that he could use in the manufacture and
delivery of poison, including dust masks, metal filter funnels, plastic syringes
and latex medical gloves.

The court heard he lived with his mother Patricia and his younger half brother
Kevin in Southampton but led a 'relatively isolated life'.

Miss Darlow explained that Colborne's half-brother Kevin was clearing some
paperwork when he found the receipts from Amazon for chemicals.

'He researched the chemicals named on the receipts and found that they included
chemicals which could be used for pyrotechnics.

'This concerned Mr Colborne and he decided to tell his mother about what he had
found.'

Colborne's mother went into the 'cluttered' bedroom and found a cardboard box
with iron oxide, pipettes, and metal funnels, the court heard.

The box also included a 500g bag of charcoal, weighing scales, and chemicals
Dimethyl Sulfoxide and Sodium Carbonate Anhydrous Soda Ash Dye Fixate.

Kevin Colborne insisted they call the police to report the stash of chemicals
and the books they had found.

When Colborne returned home, he told anti-terrorism officers: 'I can tell you
what this all is,' however, he made no comment in police interview.

Colborne, denies preparing terrorist acts on or before July 2, last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 11, 2015 Monday 12:23 PM GMT

Do-gooders obsessed with increasing population of 'avian predators' are letting
killer birds terrorise our countryside and attack our pets

BYLINE: ROBIN PAGE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1345 words



     ·    Seagulls in Devon becoming a menace and are known to attack small dogs
     ·    The birds are protected and it's illegal to kill or injure them
          intentionally
     ·    Problem is mirrored with avian predators such as the common buzzard
     ·    These birds of prey are doing untold damage to vulnerable wild birds


Her little chihuahua had been playing in the garden for only a few minutes when
the seagulls swooped down and pecked it to death.

Nikki Wayne, 57, was having a shower when her puppy Bella sneaked out of the
door into the garden of her home in Honiton, Devon.

Nikki knew of the dangers. She had seen the seagulls watching Bella on previous
occasions and so made sure she was with the dog whenever it went outside. But
this time she wasn't there.

The RSPB insisted attacks by gulls on dogs are rare, but that's hardly a
consolation to Nikki. With a wingspan of 4½ ft, an adult body weight of 2lb,
sharp claws, a long, vicious beak and a flight speed of 40 mph, gulls have
become a thieving, stealing, dangerous - and dog-attacking - menace in urban
areas up and down the land.

Scroll down for video

Complaints about attacks have soared - Rentokil estimated that gull-related
call-outs had increased by 15 per cent year on year - and in a recent survey,
they were awarded the status of the most hated bird in Britain.

Yet gulls are a protected species, which makes it illegal to kill or injure them
intentionally. And despite the increase in attacks, the RSPB is vehemently
against any cull.

Last year, the charity's spokesman Richard James blamed humans for their
aggression. 'We are partly to blame for feeding them,' he said. 'We need to
learn to live with gulls, and not exclude them completely.'

Whether Mr James believes an escaped chihuahua constitutes feeding gulls is not
clear. But the apparent refusal of the RSPB to acknowledge the need to do
something about these aggressive birds is typical of the charity.

For the problem is mirrored in its attitude - along with that of many other
eco-minded conservationists - to all manner of aggressive avian killers, such as
buzzards, red kites and sparrowhawks, whose numbers are getting out of hand.

The truth is there is an obsession in conservation circles with increasing the
number of these 'avian predators' -- or, to put it bluntly, birds that kill
other creatures.

This means the problems for the people who live with them and face threats to
pets and farm stock are increasing.

These raptors and predators are also doing untold damage to vulnerable wild
birds, such as the lapwing and skylark.

However, rather than confront these problems, the conservation bodies prefer to
look the other way.

The red kite is a wonderful bird and once was on the verge of extinction. I
remember many years ago visiting Wales to see some of the handful of breeding
pairs left.

So, it was essential to have a conservation programme - but no one could have
anticipated how successful it would be.

Since the Seventies, the population has increased by 805 per cent. Now, in some
areas such as the Thames Valley - where in 2012 experts said there were between
700 and 1,000 breeding pairs - the bird is so numerous it's become a pest.

Paul Sargeantson, a builder and smallholder in Oxfordshire, has had all his
free-range chicks and ducklings taken by kites. They even attack the meat from
his barbecue as soon as it gets on the plate.

He says: 'The unfortunate truth about the red kite is that they have a voracious
appetite for a great range of live prey, such as mice, voles, frogs, leverets
[young hares] and the chicks of all ground-nesting birds, including our beloved
and endangered lapwings, skylarks and many others.

'Quite recently, on the BBC's One Show, we were subjected to the filming of a
Chilterns farmer in rapture over dozens of red kites following his plough.

'It was clearly intended to promote the myth that red kites feed only on
earthworms and carrion. I would like to invite the BBC to the Chilterns to
observe the obscene spectacle of a large flock of red kites mobbing and
harassing lapwings in order to plunder their chicks.'

Another farmer complains of kites and ravens attacking young lambs - and even
their mothers.

The birds sit on them, pecking at their eyes and stomach - the blood and the
suffering has to be seen to be believed. But since kites and ravens are
protected, the farmer can do nothing.

True, the birds do eat roadkill - up to 60 red kite at a time have been seen in
the air in the Reading area looking out for it - but they don't confine
themselves to carrion.

In 2012, fashion model Kate Hillman was stunned when a red kite swooped on her
five-year-old dog Vinnie as they walked in fields near her home in Maidenhead,
Berkshire.

'The claws went out and it tried to pick up my dog,' said Kate, whose pet weighs
4½ lb. 'The bird was huge - about five times the size of Vinnie.'

These birds have become too numerous to merit this extraordinary level of
protection. Yet the very people who re-introduced red kites- the RSPB, Wildlife
Trusts and English Nature - won't accept this.

If the red kite is protected for all time and its population continues to rise,
it will cause the extinction of several varieties of farmland bird. The
conservationists will, of course, blame 'changes in farming practice', instead
of facing up to reality.

But it's not just kites that are soaring. Buzzard numbers have risen by 438 per
cent since the Seventies. On the Isle of Wight, I met knowledgeable countrywoman
Sheila Hiscox, who has seen four red squirrels taken from her garden by
buzzards.

She pointed to a tree, saying: 'You see that forked tree? That is the killing
post for them. They disembowel them there.

'I don't know if you have ever heard a squirrel scream as it's being killed -
it's worse than a rabbit. It is so distressing because you know you really
cannot afford to lose them.'

It is absurd to insist these raptors should be protected at all costs.

T he RSPB's latest obsession is hen harriers, one of our most beautiful birds -
and one of the most efficient killers.

There are 600 breeding pairs in Britain, but the RSPB wants its numbers to soar.

Hen harriers nest in moorland and on grouse moors. And many believe the
charity's backing for the birds - which kill not only grouse but lapwings,
golden plovers, curlews, dunlin, ring ouzels, wheatears and other inhabitants of
grouse moors - is a politically motivated attack on the 'toffs' who own these
moors.

Gamekeepers are regularly - and unfairly - demonised for seeing off hen harriers
by the politically correct conservation bodies (and, no, I don't shoot grouse).
Last year three hen harrier chicks disappeared from a nest and the culprits were
found - but they were never blamed publicly by the RSPB, for they were buzzards.

Then there is the supreme killer, the sparrowhawk, which was not protected until
1961. It needed help to save it from agricultural chemicals (DDT and Dieldren,
now banned).

But why are they still protected? There are huge numbers and it would be
possible to control them - and red kites and buzzards - without killing a single
bird, by disturbing nests.

The RSPB insists that these raptors are not a danger to smaller endangered
birds. But in 1986 in his book on Sparrowhawks, ornithologist Professor Ian
Newton suggested that there were approximately 40,100 pairs in Britain, and that
each pair would need 121 lb of (wild bird) meat a year to allow them to live and
breed.

That's 4,852,100 lb of wild birds a year, or 2,166 tons for the sparrowhawk
population. That translates into 24 million blackbirds. Or 88.2 million
sparrows. Or 9.7 million lapwings.

Add that 2,166 tons to the birds and animals killed by buzzards, red kites,
ravens, crows, magpies and others, and you get an indication of the harsh
reality of nature.

And yet these politically correct conservationists still insist these raptors
have 'no impact' on our wildlife.

Gulls attacking a chihuahua puppy is one thing, and the perpetrators need to be
taken in hand. But the carnage permitted by conservationists' protection of
raptors and other predators is on a different scale altogether.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Danish justice minister says intelligence agency misrepresented terror attacks

LENGTH: 751 words


Text of report by Danish leading privately-owned independent newspaper Politiken
website, on 6 May

[Report by Anders Hjort: "Justice Minister on Terror Attack: PET Misinformed
Us"]

Justice Minister on terrorist attack: We were misinformed by PET [Danish
Security and Intelligence Service]

Mette Frederiksen (SDP) directs sharp criticism at retiring PET chief Jens
Madsen.

Good police work was done during and after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen in
February.

Justice Minister Mette Frederiksen (SDP) said that at a press conference, which
has just finished, where she presented the comprehensive evaluation by the
National Police of the police force's effort during the terrorist attacks on 14
and 15 February.

But at the same time, the Justice Minister directed unprecedentedly strong
criticism at the force for not placing police officers at the entrance to the
Jewish synagogue until four hours after the attack on Krudttonden. That
criticism was aimed particularly at PET and PET chief Jens Madsen, who has just
resigned.

"This is inexplicable. This is a clearly a serious criticism," Justice Minister
Frederiksen said.

Misinformed by PET

The justice minister also said that she and the prime minister, as members of
the government's committee on security, were misinformed by PET regarding the
police effort during the terrorist attack, which cost two civilian lives.

At around 15:30 hours on 14 February, the attacker, Omar El-Hussein, attacked a
debate meeting at Krudttonden in Osterbro. Police were not in place in
Krystalgade [site of the synagogue] until 19:22.

Frederiksen said at the press conference that PET had provided false information
on the course of events during in the attacks on Krudttonden and the Jewish
synagogue.

"It took more than three hours from the attack in Krudttonden until PET ordered
permanent guards stationed at the synagogue. In addition, guards for a number of
other Jewish institutions were only placed six hours after that. That is too
long, especially in light of the knowledge and the threat assessment that PET
itself has drawn up concerning our Jewish minority in Denmark. And the timeline
does not correspond to the picture we were given in the days after the attack.
That in itself is not satisfactory," the justice minister said.

She also said that PET had been informed that a confirmation would be taking
place in the synagogue at the same time the terrorist took place.

"That is also one of the reasons I am critical of it having taken such a long
time before guards were in place at the synagogue," Frederiksen said.

Refused to Comment on PET Chief's Resignation

The report by the National Police came at the same time as Jens Madsen resigned
from the position of head of the Danish Security and Intelligence Service (PET).
Madsen had only had the job for a year and a half.

At today's press conference, Frederiksen was repeatedly asked whether the report
by the National Police had anything to do with the PET chief resigning as
announced earlier today.

"I have no need to go into details about the discussions and dialogue that takes
place on the government's committee on security. I can only say that the picture
we can see emerging from the evaluation, which is the correct one, does not
match the one that had been given to the government," Frederiksen said.

"Jens Madsen has made an agreement with the Justice Ministry's permanent
secretary that he will be transferred to other tasks. I have taken note of that
agreement. I have no further comment on it," the justice minister said.

Report Contains Several Criticisms

The evaluation by the National Police of the police effort during the terrorist
attacks in Copenhagen in February is 143 pages long.

Among other things, the report criticizes the police force's equipment and lack
of psychological preparation for a terrorist attack like the one that took place
in the Danish capital.

In the future, the police will also be better equipped to deal with the new,
complex threat scenario that this type of terrorist attack exemplifies.

According to the report, it will henceforth be ensured, among things, that all
Danish police officers will take part in mandatory firearms training every year.
At the same time, the police and PET will be better at planning and implementing
permanent guarding of vulnerable targets, if a new terrorist attack takes place.

[Sidebar omitted: background information on Copenhagen terrorist attacks on
14-15 February].

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 1736 gmt 6 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Cyanide terror attack planned by man 'belittled because he was ginger'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words


A man plotted a cyanide attack from his bedroom because he felt ''belittled by
society'' for being a white, ginger-haired male, a court heard yesterday.

Mark Colborne, 37, is on trial at the Old Bailey accused of preparing terrorist
acts for months before his arrest on June 3 last year.

The court heard how his half brother alerted police after he uncovered chemicals
and papers detailing Colborne's racial hatred stashed amid the clutter of his
room at the family home in Southampton.

Prosecutor Alison Darlow QC told the court how the defendant had trawled the
internet for explosives and poisons and bought books on the subject entitled
Assorted Nasties, Silent Death and The Poor Man's James Bond.

He went on to acquire chemicals over the internet forming the essential
ingredients for the deadly poison cyanide as well as stockpiling dust masks,
metal filter funnels, plastic syringes and latex gloves, jurors were told.

Ms Darlow said: ''Colborne's ideology and aims are visible through a series of
handwritten notes and diary entries which were recovered from his bedroom of the
home he shared with his mother and brother in Southampton.

''In these notes, he referred to his racial hatred for those who are non-Aryans
- who he refers to as 'blacks and Caucasian idiots' and his hatred of the
prevailing system and organs of the state.''

The court heard he wrote of his wish to carry out a terror attack, stating: ''I
will put a major dent in England, one that is felt around the world, if for some
reason I cannot perform a major operation then I will still opt for low level
attacks.''

Comparing himself with right wing extremists, he said: ''I'm looking for major
retribution, a mass terrorist attack which will bring to the attention our pain
not just mine but my brothers around the world.''

In March last year, Colborne's plan had crystallised into action and he bought
various ingredients for cyanide, the court heard.

But on June 3, his half brother Kevin Colborne was preparing to do some
decorating at the family home in Butts Road when he came across some receipts
for chemicals his brother had bought.

He became concerned to learn that they included chemicals that could be used for
fireworks and told his mother Patricia what he had found, the court heard.

Together, they went into Colborne's ''extremely cluttered'' bedroom and
uncovered an assortment of chemicals, the books and other equipment and called
the police.

Ms Darlow told the court that the defendant had suffered from depression and
agoraphobia and had led a relatively isolated life.

She said: ''He clearly had experienced a troubled childhood and perceived
himself as marginalised and belittled by society because he was a white,
ginger-haired male.''

Colborne denies the charge against him and the trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 12, 2015 Tuesday 3:46 PM GMT

ISIS terrorists warn of imminent attack on streets of London

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 656 words


CYBER jihadis linked to the brutal Islamic State group are waging a war of
terror online with threats of an imminent attack on the streets of London.

TWITTER·GETTY

A series of threats about attacks on the capital were circulating on Twitter

Using the hashtag #LondonAttacks, ISIS fighters have announced their plans for a
bombing campaign in the capital.

The sick boasts include pictures of a cache of machine guns piled into the back
of a car with the words: "Bismallah [in the name of God] we are coming".

Another user tweeted "just learnt how to make suicide belt by my brother...will
be using in #LondonAttack" alongside a photo of what appears to be a
crudely-made package wrapped in duct-tape.

The messages come amid ongoing concerns about the rise of ISIS-affiliated groups
operating in the West.

Just last week, two men launched an attack on an exhibition containing drawings
of the Prophet Muhammed in Texas.

A manual circulated online also shares tips for "how to survive in the West",
including options would-be terrorists have for smuggling weapons in cars and
evading the security services.

The latest warnings of an attack in London saw some Twitter users give details
of the specific location of an alleged strike, with one user claiming Floral
Street in Covent Garden was the intended target.

Related articles Britain has spent over £13m on bombing Islamic State terrorists
with drones and Tornados ISIS has gay wing: Homosexuality rife among terrorists
say experts as gay Muslims sign up Islamic State terror manual tells jihadis how
to make a bomb - and to always carry condoms

TWITTER

One user tweeted: 'Bismallah [in the name of God] we are coming'

The Metropolitan Police are investigating the threats but are downplaying the
likelihood of anyone carrying out an attack.

Paddington tube station was also picked out as a possible target, with the
comment: "Let the reality hit home, the taste of chaos, carnage & bloodshed.
#foreignpolicy #QaribanQariba."

Another message posted on Twitter said: "Brothers n Sisters if you are in Europe
stay away from police stations or government buildings".

A number of accounts linked with the terror posts were later suspended by
Twitter.

TWITTER

Many of those behind the tweets have had their accounts suspended

A spokesperson for the Met said: "We are aware of message circulating on social
media and are investigating.

"There is nothing at this time to suggest it is a credible threat."

It comes as members of the brutal terror regime threatened to launch a cyber-war
on senior European and US leaders.

In a video released yesterday, the group claimed to have hacked websites linked
to the "American leadership".

IG

The group calls itself the 'Islamic State's Defenders in the Internet'

A group calling itself the "Islamic State's Defenders in the Internet"
reportedly released the three-and-a-half-minute video, which warned that "the
electronic war has not yet begun".

"We observe all the movements that you are doing from your devices," the video
said.

"Soon you will see how we control your electronic world."

Related articles Group with 'links to IS' post 'threats to Obama's family' after
hacking Newsweek's Twitter French TV network hacked by group with 'links to
Islamic State'

US President Barack Obama signed an executive order last month in a bid to
respond to the growing number of cyber attacks on US government agencies.

The document declares a "national emergency" relating to "unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of
the United States posed by the increasing prevalence and severity of malicious
cyber-enabled activities".

It warns that the US authorities will "continue to employ all available means"
to combat "malicious cyber actors".

Recent successful attacks by ISIS-affiliated groups include the hacking of the
Twitter account of the US military command.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

Ginger-hair slurs drove suspect to plot terror attack;
COURTS

BYLINE: Emily Pennink

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 278 words


A man plotted a cyanide attack from his bedroom because he felt "belittled by
society" for being a white, gingerhaired male, a court heard today.

Mark Colborne, 37, is on trial at the Old Bailey accused of preparing terrorist
acts for months before his arrest on 3 June last year.

The court heard how his halfbrother alerted police after he uncovered chemicals
and papers detailing Colborne's racial hatred at the family home in Southampton.

Prosecutor Alison Darlow QC told the court how the defendant had trawled the
internet for explosives and poisons and bought books on the subject entitled
Assorted Nasties, Silent Death and The Poor Man's James Bond. He went on to
acquire chemicals over the internet forming the essential ingredients for the
deadly poison cyanide as well as stockpiling dust masks, metal filter funnels,
plastic syringes and latex gloves, jurors were told.

Ms Darlow said: "Colborne's ideology and aims are visible through a series of
handwritten notes and diary entries which were recovered from his bedroom of the
home he shared with his mother and brother in Southampton. In these notes, he
referred to his racial hatred for those who are non-Aryans - who he refers to as
'blacks and Caucasian idiots' and his hatred of the prevailing system and organs
of the state."

The court heard that he wrote of his wish to carry out a terror attack, stating:
"I will put a major dent in England, one that is felt around the world."

Colborne denies the charge against him and the trial continues.

Colborne's half-brother Kevin Colborne was about to do some decorating at the
family home when he came across some receipts for chemicals his brother had
bought.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

'Ginger-haired man plotted terror attack';
The News Matrix The day at a glance COURTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


A man who felt "belittled by society" for being white and ginger-haired, plotted
a cyanide attack, a court has heard. Mark Colborne, 37, searched online for
explosives and other chemicals before his arrest in June. Colborne, from
Southampton, is on trial at the Old Bailey accused of preparing terrorist acts.
PAGE 20

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 12, 2015 Tuesday 2:59 PM GMT

British 'neo-Nazi' who identified with Anders Breivik on trial for preparing
terror attack claims he was bullied as a child for ginger hair;
Mark Colborne, of Southampton, denies charges of preparing terrorist acts

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 374 words


A British "neo-Nazi" who stands accused of plotting a terror attack and
identifying with Anders Breivik has claimed it was because he felt bullied for
having ginger hair.

Mark Colborne, 37, claimed he felt "belittled by society" and recorded his
hatred against "black and Caucasian idiots" in a journal found after his arrest
on 3 June last year, the Old Bailey heard.

Mr Colborne, of Southampton, who denied preparing terrorist acts, is alleged to
have trawled the internet for poisonous chemicals and explosives in preparation
for his attack.

In his journals Mr Colborne compared himself to right-wing extremists such as
American Timothy McVeigh, Norwegian terrorist Anders Breivik and Nazi Heinrich
Himmler the court heard.

In June 2011 he wrote: "I identify with Heinrich Himmler. He had Jewish blood
and was born Aryan. It was a curse to be born Aryan among dark-haired Caucasian
fascists."

READ MORE: Neo-Nazis gather at trial of Oskar GroeningBreivik: the man behind
the mass killingsThe Oklahoma City bombing - 16 years on

He later wrote:  "I'm looking for major retribution, a mass terrorist attack
which will bring to the attention our pain not just mine but my brothers around
the world."

The court also heard how he claimed that he would "put a major dent in England,
one that is felt around the world.

"If for some reason I cannot perform a major operation then I will still opt for
low level attacks," he added.

Mr Colborne, who the court heard suffers from agoraphobia and depression, was
arrested after his half-brother Kevin found Amazon receipts for some chemicals.

Concerned, he and his mother Patricia searched Mr Colborne's room, informing the
police when they discovered various chemical paraphernalia, including chemicals
Dimethyl Sulfoxide and Sodium Carbonate Anhydrous Soda Ash Dye Fixate.

When officers arrived they also found books titled Silent Death, Assorted
Nasties, and The Poor Man's James Bond, the Old Bailey heard.

Prosecutor Alison Darlow QC said Mr Colborne had "experienced a troubled
childhood," adding that he perceived himself as "marginalised and belittled by
society because he was a white, ginger-haired male."

The trial continues.

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack in Pakistan's Karachi

LENGTH: 178 words


Excerpt of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news
agency

Tehran, 13 May: Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham condemned a
Wednesday [13 May] terrorist attack in the Pakistani city of Karachi that killed
scores of Shi'i Muslims on a bus.

Afkham slammed the atrocity and condoled with the bereaved families of the
victims and the Pakistani people and government.

"Extremism and terrorism are against humanity and Islam, and killing innocent
people, with any purpose and in any form, is rejected and unjustifiable," she
said.

The objective of such terrorist attacks is to undermine unity in Pakistan,
Afkham warned, but expressed confidence that prudence and rapport between the
Pakistani government and nation would safeguard stability and security in Iran's
neighbouring country.

Earlier on Wednesday [13 May], at least 43 people were killed and many more
wounded in an attack on a bus carrying a group of Shi'i Muslims in Karachi.

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1335 gmt 13 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 13, 2015 Wednesday 2:56 PM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: UK at greater risk of terror attack because EU states 'don't trust
each other'

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 622 words


SQUABBLING European Union members have such a lack of trust in each other that
UK efforts to fight terrorism are being severely compromised.

GETTY

Rival EU members don't trust each other, according to border control figures

Information which would help fight the threat of terrorism across Europe - and
more especially in London, which is a known favoured target for Islamic
extremists - is being withheld by member states.

The lack of trust and hyper secrecy means that, despite what the EU treaty might
say, in real life member nations are looking after their own interests rather
than those of Europe as a whole, according to academic researchers.

The lack of day-to-day co-operation and sharing intelligence, initiatives or
border control databases, means operatives for Islamic State and other terrorist
organisations are slipping under the radar in EU member states.

British researchers spoke to 26 counter-terrorism experts from across the EU and
uncovered the shocking lack of trust between some states is hampering border
co-operation.

EU border control experts from across the continent believe a lack of mutual
trust affects how much information is shared through databases - or even whether
it is shared at all.

AP

The lack of a consistent terror policy means it is a breeding ground for radical
groups

One law enforcement officer, from Greece, said: "The states or the organisations
in the state don't trust the others, don't trust the users and don't share the
important information in databases."

He said that many states don't use shared databases "especially in terrorism
matters" because they don't want their information to be at the hands of other
EU members.

A Portuguese operative told researchers: "Are we - all Member States - really
interested in exchanging intelligence and information? Honestly - are we? Or we
are not? Or, we are really interested when you have something to give, and I
will give you something in return."

The study, conducted by researchers at Anglia Ruskin University and Kings
College London, found member states were only knowledgable and concerned about
their own country, rather than other members.

GETTY

Many states don't use shared databases for border control

There were also fears that the European Convention on Human Rights was standing
in the way of arresting suspects and sending them back to the country they
allegedly committed crime.

European arrest warrants allow EU member states to arrest suspects wanted in
other EU countries and extradite them.

But a British participant in the study said arrests could and have been refused
on human rights grounds, and there was a lack of trust between member states to
take a united stance on suspects.

Dr Aldo Zammit Borda, former First Secretary in Malta's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and now senior lecturer in Law at Anglia Ruskin University, said there
was "tension" between national security and human rights.

He added: "Counter-terrorism operatives are aware of the importance of trust as
a necessary foundation for cooperation, but also aware of how trust is often in
short supply with regards to sharing intelligence."

He said that a lack of a common stance on terrorism and "clumsy" organisation:
"means that the EU's efforts at effective counter-terrorism law and policy still
remains more of an aspiration than a reality."

Related articles You'll be beheaded: Ukip candidate threatened by voter ranting
about attacks on Muslims Mediterranean boats will bring 500,000 Islamic State
terrorists to Europe, blasts Farage British pair accused of helping jihadis flee
to Syria 'called Lee Rigby mourners scum' ISIS terrorists warn of imminent
attack on streets of London British Jihadi bride schoolgirls could be banned
from coming back to UK

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 13, 2015 Wednesday 1:32 AM GMT

Meet ISIS's Mr and Mrs Terror: British fanatic linked to Texas attack and his
convert wife behind sick #LondonAttack threats on Twitter

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1119 words



     ·    Junaid Hussain, 21, from Birmingham was promoting the terrorist
          account
     ·    It threatened to explode suicide belt in busy Covent Garden area in
          London
     ·    Experts warn these tweets 'could be smoke-screen for a lone wolf
          attack'
     ·    He's married to Sally Jones who was promoting his now-defunct profile
     ·    Scotland Yard investigated #LondonAttack threats and found them 'not
          credible'


They have caused outrage and controversy by using their Twitter accounts to
incite terror against the West and convince other extremists to join Islamic
State's murderous regime in Iraq and Syria.

Now Britons Junaid Hussain and Sally Jones - the married jihadists dubbed Mr and
Mrs Terror - have escalated their sick activities from their bolthole in Syria
by promoting terror attacks on London.

Student-turned-hacker Junaid, who goes by the alias Abu Hussain Al-Britani, is
thought to have 'pushed' a terrorist profile known as 'The Last Tweet' which
posted images of a suicide belt crammed with ball-bearings under #LondonAttack
on Monday.

The hashtag and images prompted calls to the Metropolitan police after ISIS
threatened to blow up part of Covent Garden in the capital within hours.

But no such attack occurred and Scotland Yard said the threat and the
inflammatory hashtag 'was not credible'.

Scroll down for video

Chatter around Islamic State's social media web suggests Hussain may even have
been the one controlling The Last Tweet account.

Other jihadi accounts, which experts have linked to Hussain's, jumped on the
trend by sharing ominous images of AK47s sitting in the back of a car - primed
for an attack on the capital - and a coiled bomb alongside the caption:
'Planning on using this one very soon.'

Hussain was linked recently to the horrific 'lone wolf' attack in Texas after it
emerged he knew about them before they happened and was in contact with one of
the gunmen before the outrage.

Now Hussain seems to be using his newfound global notoriety to spread panic in
the country he once called home.

Meanwhile his terrorist wife - who goes by the nomme de guerre Umm Hussain
Al-Britani - was using her own twisted account to promote Hussain's depraved
profile. Both of their accounts, as well as that of The Last Tweet, have since
been shut down.

Charlie Winter from counter-terrorism think-tank Quillam told MailOnline that
Hussain was at least 'engaging with the account that was saying all these
things' on May 9 - although there is no way to prove he was the one behind it.

Adding: 'He was engaging with the 'London Attack hashtag' and trying to make
sure it got as far reach as possible.'

The posts mirrored the chilling #TexasAttack tweets from Hussain's former
Twitter account last week, when he told people to follow the accounts of the
shooters - hours before they actually carried out the attack in Garland.

Within minutes of the first shots, Hussain posted messages of congratulations to
his 'Muslim brothers' for shooting up an exhibition where artists were drawing
pictures of the Prophet Mohammed.

One of the gunmen Elton Simpson earlier used his 'Sharia is the Light' account
to post a series of messages about an impending attack and urged followers to
subscribe to Hussain.

21-year-old Hussain, originally from Birmingham, escaped to Syria while on
police bail in 2013 and has since threatened to use his hacking skills to empty
British bank accounts to fund terrorism in the Middle East.

He was jailed in 2012 for stealing personal information from former Prime
Minister Tony Blair and is thought to be using his hacking skills to add to the
terrorists' war chest.

Hussain married 45-year-old Sally Jones from Chatham, Kent, when she fled to
join ISIS in Syria with her 10-year-old son.

She is thought to have sneaked into the country at the end of last year after an
online romance with Hussain.

The woman who once played in a female punk band in England is now suspected of
leading a violent all-female contingent of ISIS known as the Khanssaa Brigade
who impose strict Sharia law in the groups adopted capital of Raqqa.

She has also issued a series of chilling threats including once saying she
wanted to behead Christians with a 'blunt knife'.

Regarding Hussain's involvement, the Director of International Security Studies
at RUSI told MailOnline: 'We don't know if he's been told to do this, if he
finds it entertaining or if he's doing it as part of a wider general strategy.

Hussain is widely believed to be the mastermind behind the hacking of Twitter
and YouTube accounts belonging to United States Central Command, which is often
used to provide updates on airstrikes against ISIS.

The logo of the 'Cyber Caliphate' - ISIS's own branch of hackers reportedly led
by Hussain - appeared on the banner of CENTCOM's social media sites.

He is in charge of recruiting hackers for the Islamic State's digital terrorism
efforts, according to Alex Kassirer from Flashpoint, a private company which
monitors extremist message boards and websites.

Raffaello Pantucci added: 'Given his background as a hacker, it would not be
surprising if it was any one of those things. The ISIS group could be using him
to spread this distracting material.'

He believes the #LondonAttack tweets were designed to cause fear and confusion
but they could also be a smokescreen for a more dangerous threat.

Saying: 'This could potentially be masking real emerging threats. The more noise
you make around this stuff... you get people caught up in the hysteria around
it.'

His ominous theory is backed up by his colleague Dr Afzal Ashraf who believes
something has innocuous as a Twitter trend could inspire lone wolves to carry
out horrific terrorist acts.

He said: 'These actions, like all actions of terrorists, are intended to be
mimicked. This is where the media plays an unintentional role as a promoter of
ISIS propaganda.

'Most would be copycats will have heard about this issue not directly on Twitter
but through the conventional media. This is an uncomfortable truth but facing up
to it is the first step in finding a solution.'

He said the people who actively incite the violence do so because they have no
means of carrying out the attacks themselves, adding: 'When they give warning it
almost certainly means that they haven't got the capability to conduct an
attack.'

Charlie Winter from Quillam says they are 'effectively trolling' the internet
using a tactic which they known works 'by causing havoc and mischief from their
computers, wherever they are'.

He said: 'That is something that is potentially harmful because it's a low-cost
way of causing expensive police work and creating fear which is at the heart of
what they do.

'We do have the precedent of the Texas attack. They did use the trend before the
attack actually took place.'

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

DOLE STREET DEALER JAIL ATTACK TERROR;
Scrounger mum lives high life, as yob runs scaredLags target TV sponger

BYLINE: FELICITY CROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 215 words


BENEFITS Street bad boy Neil Maxwell is living in fear of attack in prison.

The tattooed skinhead's newfound celebrity status has made him a target for
other lags.

Maxwell was seen in Monday's show dealing cannabis, smoking dope and taking
pills.

He is in Holme House Prison, Stockon-on-Tees, serving two years and three months
for a stabbing.

Now Maxwell, 36, has told friends he is terrified he will end up doing extra
time as police probe his drug crimes, captured by the Channel 4 cameras.

One pal said: "Everybody in there knows he's in the show. In jail, the last
thing you want is to draw attention to yourself. And that's what he's done."

Maxwell, on benefits for eight years, claimed £700 a month disability allowance
for memory loss. But he was jailed in March for stabbing a man who accused him
of stealing cash and tobacco from his flat.

Former neighbours in Kingston Road, Stockton, where Benefits Street is now set,
had little sympathy for him.

One said: "He'll be the prettiest little lad in Holme House. They'll probably
have him running round in a tutu now he's a TV star."

Police are watching the show closely. Chief Supt Gordon Lang, of the Cleveland
force, said:

"We will assess the footage as to whether it can assist us in any live
investigations."

felicity.cross@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WILD VEST: Neil Maxwell doing drug deals and, right, puffing on a bong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

DOLE STREET DEALER JAIL ATTACK TERROR;
Scrounger mum lives high life, as yob runs scaredLags target TV sponger

BYLINE: FELICITY CROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 215 words


BENEFITS Street bad boy Neil Maxwell is living in fear of attack in prison.

The tattooed skinhead's newfound celebrity status has made him a target for
other lags.

Maxwell was seen in Monday's show dealing cannabis, smoking dope and taking
pills.

He is in Holme House Prison, Stockon-on-Tees, serving two years and three months
for a stabbing.

Now Maxwell, 36, has told friends he is terrified he will end up doing extra
time as police probe his drug crimes, captured by the Channel 4 cameras.

One pal said: "Everybody in there knows he's in the show. In jail, the last
thing you want is to draw attention to yourself. And that's what he's done."

Maxwell, on benefits for eight years, claimed £700 a month disability allowance
for memory loss. But he was jailed in March for stabbing a man who accused him
of stealing cash and tobacco from his flat.

Former neighbours in Kingston Road, Stockton, where Benefits Street is now set,
had little sympathy for him.

One said: "He'll be the prettiest little lad in Holme House. They'll probably
have him running round in a tutu now he's a TV star."

Police are watching the show closely. Chief Supt Gordon Lang, of the Cleveland
force, said:

"We will assess the footage as to whether it can assist us in any live
investigations."

felicity.cross@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WILD VEST: Neil Maxwell doing drug deals and, right, puffing on a bong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 05:33 AM GMT

UN Chief Condemns Deadly Terror Attack In Karachi, Pakistan

LENGTH: 191 words


WASHINGTON (Alliance News) - United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has
condemned in the "strongest possible terms" Wednesday's terrorist attack in
Pakistan which left dozens dead and many others injured, a UN spokesperson said.

The attack targeted a passenger bus in the Pakistani city of Karachi and gunmen
reportedly killed at least 45 members of the Ismaili Shia Muslim community while
injuring several others.

"Pakistan, as a responsible member of the international community, must uphold
its obligations and commitments towards protecting its citizens, including all
minorities," the UN spokesperson declared in a statement which highlighted the
Secretary-General's appeal for the Government of Pakistan to "take all necessary
measures" to bring to justice the perpetrators of the "despicable act."

"Creating a climate of tolerance, understanding and respect will greatly
contribute to achieving this objective," the statement added.

Ban also extended his "heartfelt condolences" to the families of the victims,
the Government and the people of Pakistan and wished a "speedy recovery" to
those injured in the attack.

Copyright RTT News/dpa-AFX

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 5:08 PM GMT

'Ginger extremist tried to grow cyanide on Shredded Wheat to carry out terror
attacks'

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 579 words


A GINGER-HAIRED extremist attempted to carry out deadly terror attacks by
growing cyanide on Shredded Wheat, a court heard.

GETTY

Mark Colborne is alleged to have grown cyanide on Shredded Wheat in preparation
for terror attacks

Agoraphobic Mark Colborne, 37, who lived with his mother in Southampton, is also
accused of plotting to murder Prince Charles to increase the chances of
ginger-haired royal Prince Harry becoming king.

Colborne allegedly felt belittled because of the colour of his hair and compared
himself to lone wolf terrorists like far-right mass murderer Anders Breivik and
Oklahoma bomber Timothy McVeigh.

He attempted to grow cyanide on breakfast cereal so he could squirt it at people
through spray bottles or put the poison in food and drink, the court heard.

Giving evidence at the Old Bailey, chemical weapons expert Doctor Christopher
Timperley said the poison would grow in the form of mould.

Asked by prosecutor Annabel Darlow QC if a lethal amount of the toxin could be
produced by following the recipe, Dr Timperley said: "It would produce more than
the amount.

"I would predict over 250 times the lethal dose, which is quite a lot of toxin.

Asked how much you would need to kill someone, he replied: "4mg. If you had a
corner of a sugar cube, very tiny, a few grains, not much."

Dr Timperley also described books allegedly found in Colbourne's room as
"terrorist manuals" or "subversive handbooks".

"In such a book it is essentially a list of recipes to carry out at home to get
poisons and how to poison humans," he said.

"Most of the recipes in here are viable."

The research scientist told jurors the recipes for Cynanide and Aflatoxin were
particularly easy to make.

Colborne allegedly felt "belittled by society" because of his ginger hair and
white skin.

The court previously heard he wanted to assassinate Prince Charles with a sniper
rifle so that flame-haired Prince Harry could become King.

Colborne wrote in his notebook about his hatred for non-Aryans, black people and
black-haired Caucasians, jurors heard.

In one entry dated May 20, 2012, he said: "I want to perform strategic
coordinated different attacks on the systems tyrants and tyrants in and around
the septic island."

GETTY

It's alleged Colborne wanted to kill Charles so Harry would be closer to the
throne

Colborne's handwritten notes were also said to include the boast: "I will put a
major dent in England one that is felt around the world, if for some reason I
cannot perform a major operation then I will still opt for low level attacks."

His plans were foiled when his half-brother Kevin found his box of materials and
tipped off police in June last year.

Detectives found spray bottles which could be used to squirt cyanide at his
victims and a chemical that helped poisons penetrate through the skin, it is
claimed.

Prosecutor Annabel Darlow QC told the jury: "He clearly had experienced a
troubled childhood and perceived himself as marginalised and belittled by
society because he was a white, ginger-haired male."

Colborne, of Butts Road, Sholing, Southampton, denies preparing terrorist acts
on or before July 2, 2014.

The trial continues.

Related articles Muslim hate preachers SHOULD be given right to free speech,
terror apologists demand Terror alert at airport as suspicious white substance
spills from bag on plane EXCLUSIVE: UK at greater risk of terror attack because
EU states 'don't trust each other' British Jihadi bride schoolgirls could be
banned from coming back to UK

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 8:00 PM GMT

Police officers vital to thwart terrorist attacks, says counter-terror chief;
Mark Rowley outlines essential contribution of regular officers and suggests
police cuts could hamper counter-terrorism effort in time of growing threat

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1037 words


Britain's counter-terror chief has said he will fight for police to be kept on
the beat, amid fears budget cuts will see fewer officers gathering the vital
intelligence needed to thwart a growing tide of people trying to stage terrorist
attacks.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley's comments came as he warned that hundreds of
people who travelled to Syria to join Islamic State had returned to Britain, and
of a growing threat of attacks with several plots to kill foiled.

Over the last three years arrests for terrorism offences were up 56% and Rowley,
the national police lead for counter-terrorism, said his detectives across
Britain had made 338 arrests over the last year. The scale of counter-terrorism
activity by police was on a level similar to that after the July 2005 attacks on
London, Rowley said.

He estimated over half of 700 Britons who had traveled to Islamic State
territory were back in Britain. There was no end in sight to the numbers
attracted and incited by jihadi propaganda spread mainly through social media,
police said.

Against the context of intense activity to thwart a terrorist attack, Rowley
gave the clearest public indication yet that he and fellow police chiefs are
concerned cuts to neighbourhood police officers working in communities could
hamper the counter-terrorism effort. It is a fear police chiefs have been
discussing privately for some time.

Police forces are bracing themselves for further large cuts, some 20% to 25% by
2020, from the new Conservative government, on top of the cuts suffered in the
last five years. Thousands of officer jobs are in jeopardy.

One chief constable, Chris Sims in the West Midlands, has said his force will
cut neighbourhood policing, which has been seen as vital for building relations
with communities that hold intelligence that may help thwart the terrorist
threat.

The government is giving more money for counter-terrorism policing given the
escalating threat.

But Rowley, speaking at a media briefing, said an "essential" contribution was
made by regular officers on the beat, developing relationships with communities
and protective work. He said: "Counter-terrorism is not simply delivered by the
counter-terrorism network," adding that "mainstream policing makes a big
contribution".

With budget negotiations due within months, Rowley said: "Our discussions over
the next few months in terms of the spending rounds... around counter-terrorism,
will make the point it's not simply about the counter-terrorism network
enforcement, it's about the strength of those other elements of policing..."

Asked if cuts to uniformed officers could jeopardise the counter-terrorism
effort, Rowley said: "It depends on the combination of the size of spending cuts
and the nature of the changes police forces make in terms of that."

Police chiefs warning of any damaging effects of budget cuts have to walk a fine
line. The government has proven unimpressed by dire warnings, believing they
have shown they can cut costs and crime.

Britain's fight against terrorism is split between the domestic security service
MI5, which leads on gathering and developing intelligence, and the police making
arrests and doing other preventative work.

In the last parliament, the Conservatives actively considered stripping police
of their lead on counter-terrorism and handing it the the National Crime Agency,
a move that the powerful home affairs committee of MPs supported.

Police counter-terrorism efforts are organised in a series of regional hubs,
known as the "network".

Rowley said:" I think the network is an absolute strength. He added: "We are in
the right position to nationally work alongside [the security services] and have
a high degree of connectivity to local policing, which is essential."

Rowley said police may ask for new powers to force people on to deradicalisation
programmes to beef up efforts to prevent people before they stage or plan
attacks: "Do we need a mandatory counter-radicalisation programme that we can
force people on to?" the counter-terrorism chief said.

Currently only those convicted of an offence can be forced into a programme to
deflect them from extremist views.

The threat from Isis and those they incite comes in addition to those
threatening national security who existed before the rise of the Syria and
Iraqi-based extremists.

In essence, while Isis gains the headlines, al-Qaida and its affiliates also
continue to plot attacks.

Rowley said: "At one end of the spectrum you've got well-organised plots,
potentially choreographed and even directed from overseas.

"At the other end, you've got people who are inspired by some of the propaganda
and messages and other communications coming out from Isis but largely acting of
their own volition.

"Those will often be low-tech in methodology - very basic in terms of
bomb-making, using knives or plans to use cars to run people over.

"The challenge for us is that range from the sophisticated, organised, directed
through to the volatile lone actor. The reach of this problem into communities
is different to what we've had before."

Counter-terrorism officials are still unsure exactly why Britain faces such an
intense and sustained jihadi threat. Scotland Yard commissioner Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe stressed it was a Europe-wide problem with thousands having gone from
countries such as France, Belgium and Germany to jihadi controlled lands.

Events such as Isis's declaration of a caliphate had seen a spike in terrorism
arrests in Britain, according to police figures.

Of the 338 arrests in the last year, 17% were aged under 20, 11% were female and
eight out of ten were British nationals.

Imran Khawaja, 27, was jailed for 12 years in February. He was filmed in a
terrorist propaganda video with a severed head and faked his own death so he
could return to the UK from a Syrian training camp.

In May 2014, Mashudur Choudhury, 31, was convicted and jailed for four years. He
was one of at least five men from Portsmouth who travelled to a jihadi camp in
Syria to join al-Qaida-inspired rebel groups fighting Bashar al-Assad's forces.

Mohammed Nahin Ahmed and Yusuf Zubair Sarwar, from Birmingham, were arrested and
convicted in December 2014 after their family members reported them to police.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 7:34 PM GMT

Egypt legend Mohamed Aboutrika denies supporting Muslim Brotherhood;
· Three-times African player of year's company had assets seized last week ·
Aboutrika's company was allegedly used to finance terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Ed Aarons

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 247 words


The three-times African player of the year Mohamed Aboutrika has denied that the
tourism company he co-owns in Egypt is linked to the banned Islamist movement
the Muslim Brotherhood.

Aboutrika, who retired from football in December 2013, had assets seized by the
Egyptian government last week after it was alleged he had helped fund the group.

In an interview with the al-Ahram newspaper on Thursday, the 36-year-old said
that the company's co-owner who was allegedly linked to the Muslim Brotherhood
had left last year.

"I would also like to make it clear that the case so far has not gone beyond the
investigations phase," Aboutrika said. "Even the head of the [investigating]
committee Ezzat Khamis made media statements saying there are no official
charges yet."

Anas Mohamed Omar El-Kady was accused of committing hostile acts against the
state, while the company's funds were allegedly used to finance terrorist
attacks. But Aboutrika claimed that El-Kady was no longer involved and the
company had changed names in 2013.

Regarded as the greatest player in Egypt's history having won the Confederation
of African Football's player of the year award in 2008, 2009 and 2013, Aboutrika
is no stranger to politics, having revealed a T-shirt with the message
"Sympathise with Gaza" during the 2008 Africa Cup of Nations.

He publicly supported the Brotherhood member Mohamed Morsi in the 2012
presidential elections but has since decided to stop any political comments.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 5:03 PM GMT

Kabul terror attack: Brit among 14 dead as Taliban gunmen storm restaurant in
Afghan capital;
At least nine foreigners died when gunmen opened fire at the Park Palace Hotel
in Afghanistan yesterday evening

BYLINE: By Laura Connor

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 236 words


A Brit was among 14 people killed in an attack by the Taliban on a guesthouse in
Afghanistan, the Foreign Office has confirmed.

At least nine foreigners died when gunmen stormed the restaurant of the Park
Palace Hotel in the Afghan capital Kabul yesterday.

The hotel was hosting a party for foreigners, and authorities said the victims
were killed during a lengthy siege that ended today.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "With regret, we can confirm that a British
dual national was killed in last night's attack on a Kabul guest house.

"The next of kin have been informed and we are providing consular assistance."

In a statement, the Indian embassy in Kabul said it was grateful for the
condolence messages from the Afghan leadership after four Indian nationals were
also killed in the attack.

President Ashraf Ghani's special envoy for good governance Ahmad Zia Massoud
told Khaama Press agency he also appreciated the Afghan security forces for
their "valiant effort" to evacuate the civilians caught in the siege and for
killing the gunmen in the attack.

Afghanistan over the years

The siege began last night at around 8pm local time, when gunmen stormed the
guest house.

Afghan special forces arrived on the scene and killed three armed assailants
after five hours of gunfire, Kabul police chief Abdul Rahman Rahimi said.

Security forces rescued more than 50 people from the hotel, including guests who
were trapped inside.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Terrorists slaughter 43 in attack on Karachi bus

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 389 words


Gunmen boarded a bus in Karachi yesterday and shot dead 43 people from a
minority religious community.

The massacre, which shocked even Pakistanis hardened by daily suicide bombings
and shootings, was attributed to Islamic State, which reportedly left leaflets
at the scene. However, there was confusion over who to blame.

Most of those killed in the port city, which is the capital of Sindh province,
were members of Pakistan's small Ismaili community, a minority Shia sect in
Sunni-majority Pakistan. Ghulam Haider Jamali, chief of police for Sindh, said
60 people were on board the packed pink bus, operated by an Ismaili welfare
organisation. They were heading from the Safoora Goth neighbourhood to a Shia
place of worship in Aisha Manzil, another district.

"According to the initial information which we have received from hospitals, 43
people have been killed and 13 wounded," he said. "Six terrorists came on three
motorcycles, they entered the bus and began firing indiscriminately."

Police said the attackers stopped the bus in a quiet area and entered it from
the rear door. After killing the driver they shot passengers in the head and
neck at point-blank range using 9mm pistols and sub-machineguns before fleeing
the scene.

A 48-year-old woman, who received minor injuries, told police that passengers
initially thought the men were robbers. "She said that they first separated two
children from the rest of the passengers and then asked everybody to kneel and
look downwards. Then one of them ordered the others to 'kill all of them'," a
police officer said. The children are thought to have survived.

Leaflets left at the scene said "Advent of Islamic State", although some
questioned their authenticity.

Jundallah, a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban which pledged allegiance to
Isis last November, claimed responsibility.

"These killed people were Ismaili and we consider them kafir (non-Muslim). We
had four attackers. In the coming days we will attack Ismailis, Shia and
Christians," a Jundallah spokesman said. Jundallah was blamed for an attack on a
church in Peshawar in 2013 which killed 127.

The bus attack was the deadliest directed at Pakistan's Shia minority, who make
up about 20 per cent of the nation's 200 million population since January, when
a suicide bomber killed 61 people at a mosque in Shikarpur.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 14, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terrorists slaughter 43 in bus attack

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 183 words


Gunmen boarded a bus in Karachi yesterday and shot dead 43 people from a
minority religious community.

The massacre was attributed to Islamic State, which reportedly left leaflets at
the scene. However, there was confusion over who to blame.

Most of those killed were members of Pakistan's small Ismaili community, a
minority Shia sect in Sunni-majority Pakistan. Ghulam Haider Jamali, chief of
police for Sindh, said 60 people were on board the packed pink bus. They were
heading from the Safoora Goth neighbourhood to a Shia place of worship in Aisha
Manzil, another district. "According to the initial information ... 43 people
have been killed and 13 wounded," he said. "Six terrorists came on three
motorcycles, they entered the bus and began firing indiscriminately."

Police said the attackers killed the driver, then shot passengers in the head
and neck using 9mm pistols and submachineguns before fleeing the scene. Leaflets
left at the scene said "Advent of Islamic State", although some questioned their
authenticity. Jundallah, a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban, claimed
responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       May 14, 2015 Thursday 9:56 AM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAMMOND CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN KABUL

LENGTH: 169 words


LONDON, May 14 -- UK's Civil Service issued the following press release:

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has condemned last night's Kabul attack and
confirmed the death of a British dual national.

The Foreign Secretary said:

"I strongly condemn this terrorist attack in Kabul for which the Taliban have
claimed responsibility. I can confirm that a dual British-Afghan national, who
was working for the British Council, died in the attack. His family has been
informed and consular staff are providing support at this difficult time. My
thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues.

"This incident brings home to us once again the courage and perseverance of the
people of Afghanistan and members of the international community who support
them.

"These callous acts of terrorism against innocent civilians must not be allowed
to threaten a more peaceful future for Afghanistan." For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                              May 15, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COP BACK ON DUTY AFTER RAID TERROR;
Police hunt gang who attacked car with baseball bats

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 302 words


A BRAVE cop went back on duty last night - just hours after being trapped in a
patrol car as ramraiders attacked it with baseball bats.

The officer was responding to a raid at a Co-op store, in Upton, when the crooks
deliberately drove at his car, before getting out and smashing at it with
batons.

Despite being left shaken up by the frightening ordeal, the police officer told
bosses that he would be returning to his duties last night as scheduled.

Police yesterday stepped up investigations in their hunt to find the attackers,
said to be three or four in number.

The gang smashed their way into the Co-operative Food store, on Manor Drive, at
around 2.30am in a Land Rover.

After forcing their way through the store shutters, the raiders gained access to
a cash machine and fled with cash.

Police converged at the scene when the Land Rover deliberately rammed the
officer's car in nearby Heath Drive.

The crooks then got out of the car, wielding bats. Fortunately, the officer was
uninjured.

Det Insp Paul Parry said: "This incident highlights the danger that police
officers can find themselves faced with.

"This was an audacious attack on a business that provides a valuable service to
the local community, compounded by an attack on the officers.

"I'm sure the community would agree these offenders need to be brought to
justice."

The Land Rover was found abandoned nearby in Church Road and has been recovered
for forensic examination by crime scene investigators.

Police believe a dark-coloured Audi and a third car, not further described, were
used in the robbery.

Det Insp Parry added: "We would urge anyone who may have seen these cars parked
up, or being driven erratically in the area, to call us."

Anyone with any information .can contact Wirral CID on 0151 777 2264 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The smashed-in entrance to the store after the raid ¦ ¦Police at the ¦
¦scene of the raid at the Co-operative store, in Upton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2015 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 15, 2015 Friday 1:04 AM GMT

Four Indians killed by Taliban in Kabul terror attack

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


Four Indians, two Pakistanis and an American were among 14 people killed in a
Taliban attack on a guest house in Kabul on Wednesday.

A top Afghan official said the Indian Ambassador could have been the target of
the militants, who stormed the complex popular among expats.

The four Indians killed included two private auditors and an NGO worker, who
were at the Park Palace Guest house, located in the Kolola Pushta area of the
Kabul, when the Taliban militants stormed the building at about 9pm on Thursday.



Afghan President Ashraf Ghani's special envoy for good governance Ahmad Zia
Massoud said the militants attacked the guest house thinking Indian Ambassador
Amar Sinha was present in the compound. However, he did not elaborate further.

When asked whether he was scheduled to go there, Sinha said: "I was invited for
an event at the guest house, which is full of expats, but I had not confirmed my
attendance."

Confirming that four Indians were among the victims, Sinha said he has been
informed by the Afghan authorities that the total number of casualties was 14.

Two Pakistanis, an American, one Italian and a Kazak national were the other
foreigners killed in the attack, officials said, noting that rest were all
Afghans.

"Terrorists do not recognise borders! Condolences to families of all killed
including two nationals of Pakistan in #Kabul attack," Ambassador Sinha tweeted.



Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is currently on a visit to China, spoke to
President Ghani and offered condolences.

"We are one when it comes to fighting terror," Modi tweeted.

Three gunmen had stormed the guest house and started firing following which
Afghan national security forces, including Special Forces, rushed to the spot
and began striking back.

All the attackers were killed in the siege that lasted for about seven hours,
ending in the wee hours of Friday.

The Taliban and the Haqqani network have claimed the responsibility for the
attack. The attack was planned to target the party which was being attended by
important people and Americans, the militants said in a statement.

When the attack took place, the musical event was due to begin. Kabul police
chief Abdul Rahman Rahimi said security forces rescued 54 people from inside the
guest house.

PTI

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 15, 2015 Friday 12:34 AM GMT

Terrorist attack in Australia is 'likely': US upgrades security alert for its
citizens in the country following recent arrest of teen with homemade bombs

BYLINE: EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words



     ·    US Consulate in Melbourne issues security alert to its citizens in
          Australia
     ·    Alert was issued after 17-year-old was charged with terrorism offences
          in Melbourne last Sunday
     ·    Security warning says boy was planning terrorist attack against the
          public
     ·    US citizens have been urged to review personal security plans
     ·    It comes after Islamic State recruiter made contact with radical
          sheikh with large following of young men in Melbourne


The US Consulate in Melbourne has issued a security alert warning its citizens
to be aware as a terrorist attack in Australia is likely.

The security alert was issued after a 17-year-old was charged on Sunday with
terrorism offences when police allegedly found three homemade bombs in his north
Melbourne home.

Two 18-year-olds were also arrested on similar charges late last month over an
unrelated plan to allegedly commit a terrorist act on Anzac Day.

Scroll down for video

American citizens in the country have been warned that the national terrorism
public alert level remains high.

'Australian National Security has stated that a terrorist attack is likely to
occur in Australia,' the warning message says.

The US Consulate mentions the arrest of the 17-year-old in Melbourne and details
he had intended to 'conduct terrorist attacks against members of the general
public'.

'Due to the nature of this threat, US citizens are reminded to be aware of your
surroundings during this time of heightened alert, and report to authorities any
suspicious individuals or items you may see.

'US citizens are strongly encouraged to review your personal security plan,
remain aware of your surroundings including local events, and monitor local news
stations for updates.

'Maintain a high level of vigilance and take appropriate steps to enhance your
personal security.'

A similar warning message was sent out to American citizens in NSW during the
Lindt Cafe siege in Martin Place in December.

It comes after reports Neil Prakash, Australia's top Islamic State recruiter, is
trying to connect via social media with a popular radical sheikh in Melbourne.

ASIO head Duncan Lewis told The Age teenagers were becoming radicalised within
weeks and he called on families to help fight against Islamic extremism.

Prakesh is suspected of helping to radicalise the two 18-year-old arrested over
the alleged Anzac Day terrorism plot.

He made contact with Sheikh Khoder Soueid, who has a large following of young
men in Melbourne, via Twitter on Tuesday so the pair could follow each other.

'As Salaamu Alaykum akhee [Hello brother] please follow me,' Prakash wrote,
according to The Age.

Mr Soueid has become more open in his support for the Islamic State in the past
few months.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              May 15, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Briton shot dead in hotel terror attack

BYLINE: DOMINIC HARRIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 148 words


A BRITON was among 14 people killed in a terrorist attack at a hotel in
Afghanistan, it has been revealed.

The unnamed victim was shot dead when gunmen stormed the Park Palace Hotel in
Kabul.

At least nine foreigners - including four Indians, a Pakistani, an Italian and
an American - died in the attack, which came as the hotel hosted a concert by a
well-known Afghan singer.

The Taliban claimed responsibility, saying they targeted the hotel because
'foreigners were there'.

The terror group claimed a lone gunman, armed with a Kalashnikov rifle, was
behind the attack, but witnesses said three terrorists stormed the building.

Police said the gunmen were killed after an hours-long stand-off.

Some 54 hostages were rescued during Wednesday's attack.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'A British dual national was killed in the
attack on a Kabul guesthouse. The next of kin have been informed.'

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 15, 2015 Friday 10:51 AM GMT

Girl aged 11 seriously injured in pipe bomb attack by gang 'terrorising her
family';
Roisin Halligan was at home with her grandmother, one-year-old cousin Lexie and
three-month-old cousin William when the fire attack took place

BYLINE: By Garreth MacNamee

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words


A mother has blasted the gangsters terrorising her family after her daughter was
seriously injured in a pipe bomb attack.

Sabrina Halligan told them: "You can kill me but I'll never stop fighting for
justice."

She says thugs are constantly walking by her house and "shouting and screaming"
at them, reports the Irish Mirror.

Her 11-year-old daughter Roisin was at home with her grandmother, one-year-old
cousin Lexie and three-month-old cousin William when the fire attack took place
in Waterford in October.

Roisin suffered serious burns to her arms and legs and has been a different
child since the harrowing attack.

Her aunt Linda told how the little girl saw Lexie on fire and threw herself on
to her to put it out.

Sabrina said on Tuesday: "Roisin hasn't been the same since.

"She's had to stop going to youth clubs and places like that because she has to
walk by these people.

"They're ruining her life. They're pure evil the lot of them."

Charges against 23-year-old suspect Greg Hennessy were dropped in November.

But his release has angered gang bosses who believe he was freed because he was
co-operating with gardai.

His home was fire-bombed on Sunday morning and he has been regularly chased by a
Ballybeg crime lord over the past two months after it emerged his charges were
dropped.

Sabrina said she is being constantly mocked by associates of Hennessy as well as
the family of the crime boss.

Roisin will be presented with a bravery award by President Michael D Higgins
later this year for her actions.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              May 15, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror-attack massacre ASTALIBAN storm hotel

BYLINE: Dominic Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 383 words


FOREIGN SECRETARY Philip Hammond has condemned an attack by the Taliban on hotel
in Kabul which left 14 people dead, including a Briton who worked for the
British Council.

At least nine foreigners died when gunmen stormed the restaurant of the Park
Palace Hotel in the Afghan capital yesterday.

The hotel was hosting a party for foreigners, and authorities said the victims
were killed during a lengthy siege that ended yesterday.

Mr Hammond said the British man, who held joint Afghan nationality, was working
for the British Council in the country when he was killed.

He said: "I strongly condemn this terrorist attack in Kabul for which the
Taliban have claimed responsibility.

"I can confirm that a dual British-Afghan national, who was working for the
British Council, died in the attack. His family has been informed and consular
staff are providing support at this difficult time. My thoughts are with his
family, friends and colleagues.

"This incident brings home to us once again the courage and perseverance of the
people of Afghanistan and members of the international community who support
them.

"These callous acts of terrorism against innocent civilians must not be allowed
to threaten a more peaceful future for Afghanistan." The Taliban has claimed
responsibility for the attack, with the group's spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid
saying they targeted the hotel because there were foreigners there.

The hotel has rooms for visitors and a residential area for those who live
full-time in Kabul, including foreign aid workers.

Four Indians, an American, and an Italian were also known to have died when
gunmen stormed the building. The nationalities of the two other foreigners was
not known last night.

Five Afghans were among the dead - four men and one woman - and seven were
wounded, including one Afghan policeman. At least 54 hostages were rescued
during the siege. Amnesty International said the attack took place during a
garden party. The hotel is near a hospital and compounds used by aid agencies
and formerly hosted UN staff. Horia Mosadiq, Afghanistan researcher at Amnesty
International, said: "This atrocious attack on a wellknown hotel in central
Kabul is a worrying sign that the Taliban's spring offensive is in full swing,
putting civilians at heightened risk of death and injury."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              May 15, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror-attack massacre ASTALIBAN storm hotel

BYLINE: Dominic Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 383 words


FOREIGN SECRETARY Philip Hammond has condemned an attack by the Taliban on hotel
in Kabul which left 14 people dead, including a Briton who worked for the
British Council.

At least nine foreigners died when gunmen stormed the restaurant of the Park
Palace Hotel in the Afghan capital yesterday.

The hotel was hosting a party for foreigners, and authorities said the victims
were killed during a lengthy siege that ended yesterday.

Mr Hammond said the British man, who held joint Afghan nationality, was working
for the British Council in the country when he was killed.

He said: "I strongly condemn this terrorist attack in Kabul for which the
Taliban have claimed responsibility.

"I can confirm that a dual British-Afghan national, who was working for the
British Council, died in the attack. His family has been informed and consular
staff are providing support at this difficult time. My thoughts are with his
family, friends and colleagues.

"This incident brings home to us once again the courage and perseverance of the
people of Afghanistan and members of the international community who support
them.

"These callous acts of terrorism against innocent civilians must not be allowed
to threaten a more peaceful future for Afghanistan." The Taliban has claimed
responsibility for the attack, with the group's spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid
saying they targeted the hotel because there were foreigners there.

The hotel has rooms for visitors and a residential area for those who live
full-time in Kabul, including foreign aid workers.

Four Indians, an American, and an Italian were also known to have died when
gunmen stormed the building. The nationalities of the two other foreigners was
not known last night.

Five Afghans were among the dead - four men and one woman - and seven were
wounded, including one Afghan policeman. At least 54 hostages were rescued
during the siege. Amnesty International said the attack took place during a
garden party. The hotel is near a hospital and compounds used by aid agencies
and formerly hosted UN staff. Horia Mosadiq, Afghanistan researcher at Amnesty
International, said: "This atrocious attack on a wellknown hotel in central
Kabul is a worrying sign that the Taliban's spring offensive is in full swing,
putting civilians at heightened risk of death and injury."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Worker's terror after gypsy-site bat attack

BYLINE: Hywel Trewyn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 423 words


AGYPSY liaison worker said he is lucky to be alive after he was battered with a
truncheon while at a travellers' site.

Two men attacked Adrian Roberts, and also smashed his car and its windows with a
shovel.

The unprovoked attack happened at the Gwynedd Council-run gypsy and traveller
site in Llandygai, Bangor, where there has previously been an arson attack on
two demountable buildings.

Mr Roberts has been off sick since the incident happened, and said he was "lucky
to be alive".

Adrian, 65, from Caernarfon, said: "Some workers I had been overseeing had been
fitting intruder alarms at the site and had gone for their lunch.

"I was in my car reading a paper when the next thing there was a hell of a noise
when my rear window was smashed. Then the passenger door and window behind the
driver's seat was smashed and then my door and window.

"When the second smash happened I turned around and I saw one man armed with a
shovel and another man behind him. He came to the front and started clearing the
glass to batter me with a truncheon or baseball bat. He copped my shoulder a
couple of times."

Father of two Mr Roberts told the Daily Post: "There was broken glass flying
everywhere. I was desperately trying to defend my face and eyes from the shards,
as well as from being hit with the truncheon."

The men then ran off towards the main road and Mr Roberts got out of his car and
dialled 999.

Police are still investigating the attack.

Mr Roberts said: "I was taken to hospital with severe bruising to my right
shoulder and cuts to my face and ear. I had an X-ray and painkillers."

"I'm still very, very anxious. If I hear the slightest noise I jump up. I don't
sleep properly and I'm getting help to try and get my mind to think about other
things. It's been hell. I still get flashbacks.

"We had two Portakabins set on fire and the council decided to install CCTV
cameras on our plot only. I think that's the reason it happened. I was the
'face' of the council and I was on the site. I was the wrong person in the wrong
place at the wrong time. I'm lucky to be alive - - if they had hit me with the
shovel instead of the baseball bat, I wouldn't be here now."

He added: "I had been in the job for two and a half years and had no problems at
all. I can't point the finger at all - - they've been great with me. They've
been grateful for everything I've done for them."

Mr Roberts wants to return to work but not as a warden on the same site.

A Gwynedd Council spokesman said he was being supported and the matter was being
investigated by police.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Adrian Roberts was attacked at a gypsy site in Bangor >

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Worker's terror after gypsy-site bat attack

BYLINE: Hywel Trewyn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 423 words


AGYPSY liaison worker said he is lucky to be alive after he was battered with a
truncheon while at a travellers' site.

Two men attacked Adrian Roberts, and also smashed his car and its windows with a
shovel.

The unprovoked attack happened at the Gwynedd Council-run gypsy and traveller
site in Llandygai, Bangor, where there has previously been an arson attack on
two demountable buildings.

Mr Roberts has been off sick since the incident happened, and said he was "lucky
to be alive".

Adrian, 65, from Caernarfon, said: "Some workers I had been overseeing had been
fitting intruder alarms at the site and had gone for their lunch.

"I was in my car reading a paper when the next thing there was a hell of a noise
when my rear window was smashed. Then the passenger door and window behind the
driver's seat was smashed and then my door and window.

"When the second smash happened I turned around and I saw one man armed with a
shovel and another man behind him. He came to the front and started clearing the
glass to batter me with a truncheon or baseball bat. He copped my shoulder a
couple of times."

Father of two Mr Roberts told the Daily Post: "There was broken glass flying
everywhere. I was desperately trying to defend my face and eyes from the shards,
as well as from being hit with the truncheon."

The men then ran off towards the main road and Mr Roberts got out of his car and
dialled 999.

Police are still investigating the attack.

Mr Roberts said: "I was taken to hospital with severe bruising to my right
shoulder and cuts to my face and ear. I had an X-ray and painkillers."

"I'm still very, very anxious. If I hear the slightest noise I jump up. I don't
sleep properly and I'm getting help to try and get my mind to think about other
things. It's been hell. I still get flashbacks.

"We had two Portakabins set on fire and the council decided to install CCTV
cameras on our plot only. I think that's the reason it happened. I was the
'face' of the council and I was on the site. I was the wrong person in the wrong
place at the wrong time. I'm lucky to be alive - - if they had hit me with the
shovel instead of the baseball bat, I wouldn't be here now."

He added: "I had been in the job for two and a half years and had no problems at
all. I can't point the finger at all - - they've been great with me. They've
been grateful for everything I've done for them."

Mr Roberts wants to return to work but not as a warden on the same site.

A Gwynedd Council spokesman said he was being supported and the matter was being
investigated by police.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Adrian Roberts was attacked at a gypsy site in Bangor >

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 17, 2015 Sunday 11:16 PM GMT

White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite 'has killed 400 people in reign of terror
against the west';
Spy chief says the British mum of four is believed to have directed terror
raids, suicide attacks and car bombings in Somalia and Kenya

BYLINE: By Stewart Whittingham

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1210 words


White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite has murdered 400 people after becoming a key
figure in jihadist terror group al Shabaab.

The 32-year-old mother of four's atrocities include last month's slaughter of
148 by gunmen at a university in Kenya, say security chiefs.

One told the Mirror in the Somalian capital, frequently bombed by al Shabaab:
"This lady sits at the right hand of the leader directing attacks."

She has been rapidly promoted through the ranks of al Shabaab after many of its
leaders died in drone attacks.

The London University graduate was quickly recognised as intelligent and
evil-minded enough by jihadi terror bosses to be trusted with the most horrific
atrocities.

A senior Somali anti-terror officer says Lewthwaite is now at the right hand of
al Shabaab leader Ahmad Umar and is suspected of ordering the deaths of more
than 400 innocent people.

He said: "She is an evil person but a very clever operator."

Lewthwaite, of Aylesbury, Bucks, is believed to have directed terror raids,
suicide attacks and car bombings in Somalia and Kenya, as well as masterminding
last month's slaughter of 148 people, by gunmen at a university in Garissa,
northern Kenya.

She has also launched a recruitment drive of teenagers and women as suicide
bombers after bribing their desperate families with as little as £300.

One London resident blew herself up at a hotel in the Somali capital Mogadishu
in February killing 25.

And Lewthwaite is believed to have sent brain-washed boys as young as 15 to
their deaths as suicide bombers - after they were pumped full of heroin.

The top officer at Somalia's National Intelligence and Security Agency - who we
are not naming to protect his identity - added: "The lady has moved up the
ranks. She is one of the most important figures in the terror group.

"We think this lady is sitting at the right hand of the leader directing
attacks.

"She does not carry out attacks herself as she is too important but is
responsible for many, many deaths - hundreds.

"She uses children to kill for her after giving money to their families."

But he says the world's most wanted woman is now facing the same fate as her
dead former jihadist leaders. NISA operatives are working with MI6 to capture
her, dead or alive.

The Somali spy chief added: "We share all our information with British agents
here in Mogadishu. They are here to keep an eye on the lady and other Britons in
Somalia.

"The SAS are ready to get her or we are ready to call in a drone strike against
her. We will get her eventually.

"We know she has surrounded herself with other Britons, her own people as her
Somali language is not so good. They are her lieutenants and bodyguards."

Lewthwaite, whose dad is a former soldier who served in Northern Ireland, is the
widow of Germaine Lindsay - one of the London 7/7 suicide bombers.

She fled Britain in the wake of the 2005 attacks that killed 52 and has been on
the run for nearly four years after she and British terror suspect Jermaine
Grant, 30, plotted to blow up tourists in Mombasa.

The fanatic has been accused of being one of the masterminds behind the Westgate
mall attack in Nairobi where 67 people, including five Brits, were murdered by
al-Shabaab in 2013.

Interpol issued a Red Notice warrant for Lewthwaite and security services in 200
countries are hunting for her.

It is thought she has changed her appearance through plastic surgery, dying her
hair and loing two stone.

She narrowly escaped death in March when she had just left a terrorist camp that
was bombed by a US drone attack in March.

Kenyan jets have also bombed camps in Somalia where she was hiding.

The Somali officer added: "The lady does not sleep in the same place twice. She
moves around all the time."

It is thought she is hiding out near the town of Haaway in southern Somalia
which is an al-Shabaab stronghold. Local villagers have been warned not to
approach the area by the Islamic extremists.

Last summer The Mirror revealed that the White Widow married again to al Shabaab
warlord called Hassan Maalim Ibrahim, aka Sheikh Hassan.

Al Shabaab is an Al Qaeda offshoot based in Somalia which still controls a fifth
of the lawless country despite military setbacks against 10,000 African Union
peacekeepers known as Amisom.

The extremists are fighting to impose strict Islamic law in Somalia and have
banned football, dancing, music and even mobile phone ring tones.

Amisom have driven them out of towns and cities and obliterated much of their
leadership with drone attacks and bombing raids.

An Amisom source revealed: "Lewthwaite comes to Hassan when she wants to hide
out. She is protected in no-go areas by his clan and she often poses as a camel
herder. She is dressed all in black robes and gloves so her white skin does not
give her away."

It is thought she only sees her children rarely and does not take them with her
on the run."

Captured terror boss Zakariye Ismail Hersi offered to betray the White Widow in
January after he was captured.

He revealed she had been hiding out in the jungles of Ras Kiyamboni near the
Kenyan border.

A suicide squad of up to 15 fighters often guard her. Two months she ago was
seen with 25 women recruits in the city of Harardhere in northern Somalia after
crossing the sea by dhow from the Yemen.

Lewthwaite is also feared to have helped plan last month's attack on a
university in Garissa, Kenya.Gunmen stormed the university and shot 148
Christian students dead.

If they could not recite the Koran they were executed.

White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite's life on the run

Cynthia Charotich, 19, told how she drank body lotion and hid in a cupboard for
two days to escape the bloodbath.

Another student Eric Wekesa said: "What I managed to hear from them is 'We came
to kill or finally be killed.' That's what they said. "It was horrible, there
was shooting everywhere."

Kenya's security forces fear twisted Lewthwaite is on a revenge missionagainst
Kenya after they killed her mentor - Sheikh Abubakar Shariff was killed in the
Kenyan coastal city of Mombasa.

She had lived in a safe house there where The Mirror found her terrorist
manifesto.

The hand-written 'Diary of Death' revealed she had brainwashed young radicals
for a Holy War against the West.Itis thought brutal Islamic State executioner
Jihadi John was on his way to meet the White Widow when he was arrested at an
airport in Tanzania in 2009.

Mohammed Emwazi Al-Shabaab gunmen also ambushed a bus in November in Kenya and
murdered 28 non-Muslims.

Kenya is now planning to build a wall across its border with Somalia to try and
stop attacks.

William Ruto, the Kenyan deputy president, said: "The way America changed after
9/11 is the way Kenya will change after Garissa."

In February al-Shabaab released a video featuring an extremist with an English
accent calling for terror attacks against London's Oxford Street and Westfield
shopping centre.

He called on followers to "hasten to heaven" with a suicide attack similar to
the Westgate massacre.

It is also thought brutal Islamic State executioner Jihadi John was on his way
to meet the White Widow when he was arrested at an airport in Tanzania in 2009.

Security services think Mohammed Emwazi had been due to travel to Kenya to
become a disciple of Lewthwaite before he then travelled to Syria to unlease his
reign of terror.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 17, 2015 Sunday 9:39 PM GMT

Islamic State 'pushed back' from Palmyra but danger not over yet;
After fears the ancient Palmyra site would be destroyed by Islamic State,
officials say the terrorist group's attack has been 'foiled'

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck, Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) militants have been pushed back from
the ancient Syrian site of Palmyra, according to officials and a monitoring
group.

The militants had seized parts of the modern day town of the same name on
Saturday, hanging their black flag from a building near the centre .

But on Sunday, Talal Barazi, provincial governor, told AFP that Isil's attack
had been "foiled".

Palmyra's 2,000 year old ruins are not out of danger yet. The Britain-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which relies on a network of contacts
across Syria, said on Sunday that Isil had retreated just a kilometre outside
the town.

Nearly 300 people have been killed in fierce fighting since Isil began its
advance on Palmyra last week. The observatory said the toll included 123
fighters loyal to the Syrian regime, and 115 militants.

Dozens of civilians were also killed. Among them were women and children,
executed in the nearby village of Amiriyeh.

Palmyra was once the seat of the third century Queen Zenobia, becoming the
capital of an empire stretching from Turkey to Egypt . Today, its sand-coloured
colonnades perch on the edge of a modern city that shares the same name.

Syrian soldiers in positions on a crest in the ancient oasis city of Palmyra
(EPA)

Damage to the site would represent a "major crime" against the world's heritage,
said Professor Kevin Butcher, head of the University of Warwick's archaeology
department.

Palmyra is of strategic importance for the Syrian regime, sitting at a highway
intersection linking it to the cities of Homs and Damascus.

Syria's four year-long war has devastated cultural treasures across the Middle
East and North Africa as Isil has showcased its destruction of ancient sites it
deems 'idolatrous'.

Fighting between government and opposition forces has also turned swathes of the
ancient cities of Aleppo and Homs into wastelands of rubble.

Much of Palmyra's ruins have yet to be excavated . "Destruction of the
archaeological layers would represent the deliberate obliteration of a history
not yet told," said Prof Butcher.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 18, 2015 Monday 5:15 PM GMT

Pakistan to host Zimbabwe in first internationals since Lahore terrorist attack

BYLINE: AP REPORTER

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 182 words



     ·    Zimbabwe will become first test country to tour Pakistan since March
          2009
     ·    Pakistan will host two Twenty20s and three ODIs at the Gaddafi stadium


     ·    Security increased after Sri Lankan team bus attack five years ago
     ·    Attack in Lahore by gunmen killed six police officials and a van
          driver


Pakistan will be seeking to provide foolproof security to the Zimbabwe cricket
team in the same city where international matches were suspended six years ago
after gunmen attacked the Sri Lankan team bus in Lahore.

When they arrive early Tuesday, Zimbabwe will become the first test country to
tour Pakistan since that fatal attack on the Sri Lankans which not only wounded
several visiting cricketers but also left six police officials and a van driver
dead.

Security officials are busy in final preparations to provide high level security
to the visitors, with dozens of CCTV cameras installed in the surroundings of
Gaddafi Stadium - the venue of the two Twenty20s and three ODIs between May
22-31.

Thousands of policemen and security officials are expected to shield the
Zimbabweans during their stay in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 19, 2015 Tuesday 8:13 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo cartoonist who drew Prophet Mohammed on cover of edition following
terror attack quits magazine after being unable to cope with 'grief, pain and
anger'

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 568 words



     ·    Renald 'Luz' Luzier famously drew front cover image of survivors'
          edition
     ·    Announces he will quit to 'r emain master of my life as much as
          possible'
     ·    Luz narrowly escaped being murdered after he arrived late on January 7
     ·    When he got to the office, he found fellow cartoonists and editors
          dead


Charlie Hebdo was in chaos last night after its leading cartoonist revealed he
was quitting the French magazine.

Renald 'Luz' Luzier, 43, said he was unable to cope with the 'grief, pain and
anger' which followed 12 people - including many of his colleagues - being
murdered by Islamist gunmen in Paris in January.

They were targeted for publishing blasphemous cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.

Luz famously drew the front cover picture of the survivors' edition which
followed the terrorist outrage, but has been wracked by demons ever since.

Earlier this month he said he was giving up drawing the Prophet, and last night
he told Liberation  newspaper that he wanted 'to remain the master of my life as
much as possible, especially in the short term, and after what we lived
through'.

Alluding to the way in which Charlie Hebdo has been adopted by those with a
'free speech' agenda against Islam, Luz said: 'We're not heroes, we never were,
we never wanted to be'.

Luz narrowly escaped being murdered himself after he arrived at a Charlie Hebdo
conference late after oversleeping on his birthday, January 7.

When he got to the office he found fellow cartoonists and editors lying dead in
pools of blood.

The two Parisian brothers responsible for the carnage had escaped.

Said and Cherif Kouachi were later killed themselves following a shootout with
police following a siege on the outskirts of the French capital.

Hebdo, which was close to bankruptcy before the attacks, has made the equivalent
of more than £25million since, most of it in mass sales and donations.

But the mainly Left-wing staff believe that management is now solely interested
in the profits, while the publication tones down its once-biting satire.

Hebdo was accused of hypocrisy last week after it suspended a journalist who
received death threats for her articles attacking Islamic extremism.

Zineb El Rhazoui, 33, was called to a preliminary dismissal hearing to remind
her of her 'obligations' towards the French weekly following 'numerous
incidents'.

The French-Moroccan columnist accused her employers of trying to 'punish her'
for speaking out about the direction of the magazine.

'I am shocked and appalled that a management that has received so much support
after the January attacks could show so little support for one of its employees,
who is under pressure like everyone in the team and has faced threats,' she
said.

El Rhazoui was among 15 Hebdo staff who wrote an open letter criticising the
magazine's owners and management in late March.

We're not heroes, we never were, we never wanted to be  Renald 'Luz' Luzier

They raised fears that the Left-wing and anti-religious magazine might succumb
to the 'poison of the millions' of euros it is now making.

The group called for the magazine to become a 'cooperative' and asked for its
new found riches to be placed in a trust to guarantee its survival for '30
years'.

Luz told Liberation he would leave the magazine permanently, adding: 'I will not
be Charlie Hebdo, but I will always be Charlie'.

A total of 17 people died in the January terrorist attacks - including Hebdo
staff, police and Jewish shoppers.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 19, 2015 Tuesday 2:00 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Leading 'Mohammed' cartoonist says he is quitting magazine after
terror attack;
Renald Luzier, who drew the 'survivors' edition, says he is unable to cope with
the "grief, pain and anger" which followed the murder of 12 people at the
magazine's offices

BYLINE: By Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 521 words


Charlie Hebdo story in Pictures

French magazine Charlie Hebdo is in chaos after its leading 'Mohammed'
cartoonist said he was quitting.

Renald 'Luz' Luzier, 43, said he was unable to cope with the "grief, pain and
anger" which followed the murder of 12 people, including many of his colleagues,
by Islamist gunmen in Paris in January .

The gunmen claimed the victims were being 'punished' by Al-Qaeda for publishing
blasphemous cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.

Luz famously drew the front cover picture of the survivors edition which
followed the terrorist outrage, but has been wracked by demons ever since.

Earlier this month he said he was giving up drawing the Prophet, and tonight he
told Liberation newspaper that he wanted "to remain the master of my life as
much as possible, especially in the short term, and after what we lived
through."

Luz added: "We're not heroes, we never were, we never wanted to be."

Charlie Hebdo 'Survivors' Issue.

Luz narrowly escaped being murdered himself after he arrived at a Charlie Hebdo
conference late after oversleeping.

When he got to the office, he found fellow cartoonists and editors lying dead in
pools of blood, with the two Parisian brothers responsible for the carnage
escaped.

Said and Cherif Kouachi were later killed following a shoot-out with the police
following a siege on the outskirts of the French capital.

Hebdo, which was close to bankruptcy before the attacks, has made the equivalent
of more than £25million since, most of it in mass sales and donations.

But the mainly left wing staff believe that management is now solely interested
in the profits, while the publication tones down its once biting satire.

Charlie Hebdo Saga Most Poignant Moments

Hebdo was accused of hypocrisy last week after it suspended a journalist who
received death threats for her articles attacking Islamic extremism.

Zineb El Rhazoui, 33, was called to a preliminary dismissal hearing to remind
her of her 'obligations' towards the French weekly following 'numerous
incidents'.

The French-Moroccan columnist accused her employers of trying to 'punish her'
for speaking out about the direction of the magazine.

'I am shocked and appalled that a management that has received so much support
after the January attacks could show so little support for one of its employees,
who is under pressure like everyone in the team and has faced threats,' she
said.

El Rhazoui was among 15 Hebdo staff who wrote an open letter criticising the
magazine's owners and management in late March.

They raised fears that the left-wing and anti-religious magazine might succumb
to the 'poison of the millions' of euros it is now making.

The group called for the magazine to become a 'co-operative' and asked for its
new found riches to be placed in a trust to guarantee its survival for '30
years'.

Luz told Liberation he would leave the magazine permanently, adding: 'I will not
be Charlie Hebdo, but I will always be Charlie'.

A total of 17 people died in the January terrorist attacks, including Hebdo
staff, police and Jewish shoppers.

Charlie Hebdo shootings: Hostages held in a kosher grocery store in Porte de
Vincennes

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2015 Wednesday

Russia condemns "terrorist attack" on embassy in Syria

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of "Statement by Foreign Ministry Spokesman Alexander Lukashevich on a
mortar attack at the Russian Embassy in Damascus" published in English by the
Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 20 May

At 3.25 pm local time on May 19, the Russian Embassy complex came under mortar
fire. The shots appeared to have been fired from the Jobar neighbourhood, which
is controlled by illegal armed groups. One of the mortar bombs landed 15 metres
from the main entrance of the embassy, while another hit the external wall and
fell in an embassy office.

Fortunately, no embassy employees have been injured, though the embassy building
has been damaged.

We view this as a terrorist attack directed at the Russian Embassy and strongly
condemn its perpetrators, organizers and instigators. We confirm our solidarity
with the Syrian authorities in their efforts to combat the terrorist threat on
Syrian territory.

We urge the international community to provide an appropriate assessment of this
terrorist attack at the Russian diplomatic mission, and call on all sides that
can influence the extremists in Syria to demand that they immediately stop such
actions and armed violence in general, in order to create conditions for a
political settlement in Syria through a broad inter-Syrian dialogue based on the
Geneva Communique of June 30, 2012.

May 19, 2015

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 20 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 20, 2015 Wednesday 5:21 PM GMT

Man arrested over Tunis terror attack - after crossing Med in migrant boat

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 450 words


A MAN has been arrested on suspicion of being involved in the Tunisian museum
attack which left 22 people dead.

AP

A man has been arrested in connection with the Tunisian museum terror attack

Touil Abdelmajid was arrested after crossing the Mediterranean on a migrant
boat.

The Moroccan citizen was held by police last night on a Tunisian arrest warrant
at his mother and two brothers' home in Gaggiano, near Milan.

Tunisian officials said it has arrested the great majority of those responsible
for the March 18 attack which was launched by a cell of 23 militants with linked
with a number of hardline Islamist groups.

Tunisian authorities believe Abdelmajid, 22, had a role in both planning and
carrying out the attack.

Italian anti-terrorism investigator Bruno Megale said: "He was wanted
internationally for co-participation in, planning and executing the March 18
attack on the Bardo Museum in Tunis."

The only trace that Italian authorities had of Abdelmajid prior to his arrest
was that he had arrived in Italy on February 17 along with migrants from a
smuggler's boat, police said.

It is believed he retuned to Tunisia to help organise the attack in Tunis.

AP

Touil Abdelmajid was arrested near Milan

He was identified by authorities in Porto Empedocle, Sicily, and was
subsequently issued an expulsion decree.

Those decrees are usually given to migrants heading to Europe for economic
reasons - not refugees from conflict who could apply for asylum.

Mr Megale said: "He did not appear to frequent mosques close to fundamentalism
in Italy and was unknown to us apart from the deportation order before the
intelligence came from the Tunisian authorities."

Anti-immigrant politicians have warned that Islamic extremists might enter Italy
via any one of the dozens of migrant boats setting off weekly from Libya for
European shores.

Confirmation that Touil had made at least one trip to Italy by boat has fuelled
criticism of the massive, Italy-led Mediterranean operation to rescue would-be
refugees crossing the Mediterranean.

The Bardo attack killed 22 people, including British tourist Sally Adey, from
Shropshire, and a Tunisian policeman.

A total of people in Tunisia have already been arrested in connection with the
attacks, and security forces in the south of the North African country have also
killed nine militants involved in the atrocity.

The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Related articles Tunisia terror: Nine arrested as Islamic State 'claim
responsibility' for museum attack Cruise lines 'stop calling at Tunis' after
British passenger killed in terrorist attack Tunis museum massacre suspect
gunned down as thousands rally against extremism  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 20, 2015 Wednesday 2:06 PM GMT

ISIS hangs 'Iraqi army collaborator' from bridge just an hour's drive from
Baghdad as terror hordes attack another town on their march towards capital

BYLINE: JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words



     ·    WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT
     ·    Images show the suspected spy being paraded through streets of
          Fallujah
     ·    The execution took place near Ramadi, which ISIS seized a few days ago
     ·    ISIS has since been attacking other villages further east towards
          Baghdad
     ·    Iraqi forces, Iranian-backed Shia militia amassing for a
          counter-offensive


Shocking images show ISIS militants parading a suspected spy through the streets
of Fallujah - just 45 miles west of the Iraqi capital Baghdad - before publicly
hanging him from a bridge.

The gruesome execution took place just 30 miles from Ramadi where Islamic State
slaughtered over 500 to seize the city a few days ago - and have since been
attacking nearby villages as they look to consolidate power in the region.

Pictures obtained by anti-ISIS activists show the terror group's latest victim,
accused of collaborating with the Iraqi army, being escorted through the
ISIS-controlled city of Fallujah on the back of a pick-up truck.

Another shows his limp body hanging from a bridge as Islamic State's deprave
soldiers celebrate above.

The Iraqi government lost control of Fallujah to Islamic State militants back in
January 2014 after days of fighting in the city - and nearby Ramadi - where
hundreds were killed.

And only days ago, the terror group slaughtered over 500 people to finally seize
Ramadi where they held a sickening military parade on its blood-stained streets.

They have since been ruthlessly attacking villages to its east - as they look to
establish a foothold in the strategically important Anbar Province.

Overnight, Islamic State insurgents attacked government troops in Husaiba
al-Sharqiya which is halfway between Ramadi and the Habbaniya military base
where Iran-backed militia soldiers have gathered, pro-government forces have
said.

Over 3,000 of them have amassed in preparation to retake the battle-ravaged city
where Islamic State fighters now have the tanks and heavy artillery left behind
by the Iraqi forces who abandoned the city.

A Sunni tribal leader said: 'Daesh [ISIS] attacked us around midnight after a
wave of mortar shelling on our positions.

Amir al-Fahdawi added: 'This time they came from another direction in an attempt
to launch a surprise attack but we were vigilant and, after around four hours of
fighting, we aborted their offensive.'

Over 40,000 civilians are thought to have fled Ramadi since Islamic State took
control but some remain stuck in the city, a Baghdad-based humanitarian
organisation told MailOnline yesterday.

Those who fled are stuck in no man's land between battle-ravaged Ramadi and the
Iraqi capital Baghdad, where they are being refused entry by the country's army
who can not verify they are innocent civilians and not ISIS fighters.

The Iraqi government has since made a desperate call for volunteers to bolster
its shattered army after suffering the worst defeat since the Islamic State
grabbed swathes of territory in June last year.

Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said extra recruitment was vital to efforts to
recapture the key city of Ramadi which fell to ISIS on Sunday.

But the United States military will not be offering military assistance after
its Department of Defence ruled out sending special forces to fight alongside
Iraqi's around the city.

President Barack Obama is however considering accelerating the training and
arming of Iraqi tribal forces to fight the Islamic State group after Ramadi
fell.

The White House confirmed it will support the forces made up of Shi'ite militias
and Sunni tribal forces in Anbar, as long as they operate under the leadership
of the Iraqi government forces.

America has sent thousands of military advisers to train Sunni tribal fighters
and help reform Iraq's shambolic army, but the pace of change has failed to
match Islamic State's aggressive military tactics.

Prime Minister al-Abadi's decision to send in the Shi'ite militia - known as
Popular Mobilisation - to retake Ramadi could stir up further sectarian
hostility in one of the most violent parts of Iraq.

Ramadi was Islamic State's biggest success since it captured the northern city
of Mosul last year and declared itself an Islamic caliphate.

That 'defeat was avoidable,' the Institute for the Study of War wrote in the
Washington Post.

It said: 'Neither the Islamic State nor any other Al-Qaeda offshoot has ever
taken a major urban area actively defended by the United States in partnership
with local forces.

'This is what happens when a policy of half-measures, restrictions and posturing
meets a skillful and determined enemy on the battlefield.'

Despite defeats in the Iraqi city of Tikrit - Saddam Hussein's home town - and
in the Syrian city of Kobani, the group still controls large areas of Iraq and
Syria.

Local officials have said 500 people were killed in the fighting to take Ramadi
and the international migration agency says more than 40,000 people have fled
the city.

Islamic State fighters have set up a fearsome defensive wall and laid landmines
around their newly-conquered territory, witnesses in Ramadi have said.

The notorious black flag used by jihadi groups flies over Mosques and public
buildings, as was seen in a chilling video showing ISIS celebrating their
successful taking of Ramadi.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 20, 2015 Wednesday 11:08 AM GMT

Italy arrests Tunisia museum terror attack suspect;
A 22-year-old Moroccan national has been arrested two months after the attack on
the museum left 21 tourists dead in March

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 218 words


Italian police have arrested a Moroccan man suspected of taking part in the
attack on the Bardo National Museum in Tunis in which 21 tourists were killed in
March .

"A Moroccan national, wanted internationally, was arrested yesterday evening in
a town in the Milan region. The Tunisian authorities suspect him of having taken
part in the Bardo attack," a police spokesman told AFP on Wednesday.

The arrest was made by Italy's anti-terrorism DIGOS police. Milan's prefecture
was expected to provide more details at a press conference later in the day.

The Italian press reported that the Moroccan was 22 years old and was arrested
in the town of Gaggiano in northern Italy, some 8 miles from the country's
economic capital.

· How Tunisia became a breeding ground for jihadists

The Bardo attack on March 18 killed 22 people in total, including a Tunisian
policeman.

Two Tunisian assailants who had shot tourists as they got off buses outside the
museum were gunned down at the scene after taking hostages inside the museum.

Beji Caid Essebsi, Tunisian president, said a few days after the attack that a
third gunman was on the run.

· Tunisia museum attack: thousands join march against violence

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Informed source rejects report on "terrorist attack" on Iran embassy in Damascus

LENGTH: 90 words


An informed source at the Iranian embassy in Damascus has rejected reports by
"Zionist media outlets" about "a terrorist attack by Al-Nusrah Front" on Iran's
embassy in Damascus, Fars news agency reported on 21 May.

According to Fars, "the Zionist Debka news website published a report claiming
that the Islamic Republic of Iran's embassy in Damascus was attacked by members
of the terrorist Al-Nusrah Front on Wednesday [21 May] evening and this resulted
in heavy damages."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1229 gmt 21 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'focus should be on killing americans';
Bin Laden documents seized from his last hiding place and released by US reveal
how he was obsessed with carrying out more terror attacks ; LEADER'S AMIBITIONS

BYLINE: Peter Foster; Raf Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN dreamed of staging more spectacular attacks against America and
hoped that his son would one day succeed him as the leader of al-Qaeda, newly
declassified documents seized from his compound show.

The secrets of bin Laden's terrorist ambitions and family life were revealed in
more than 100 documents snatched by US commandos during the May 2011 raid in
Pakistan and yesterday declassified for the first time.

Although they are only a fraction of the total files found at the Abbottabad
hideaway, the documents include bin Laden's instructions to his wife on how to
remarry if he was killed and show his obsession with launching attacks against
American targets rather than local forces. "The focus should be on killing and
fighting the American people and their representatives," bin Laden wrote in the
documents which were translated by the CIA. The files also show bin Laden lived
in constant paranoia about being discovered by US intelligence.

OBSESSION WITH STRIKING US In a note to al-Qaeda's North African offshoot,
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), he urged commanders to focus on
attacking the "obnoxious tree" that is America and not to become distracted with
local conflicts. "Work on breaking the power of our main enemy by attacking the
American embassies in the African countries, such as Sierra Leone, Togo, and
mainly to attack the American oil companies," he wrote. Commanders were also
warned they "shouldn't be stingy in the quantity of explosives to be used or the
number of martyrs."

Bin Laden cited the Vietnam war as proof that if al-Qaeda were able to kill
enough Americans it could force the US to withdraw from the Middle East and
"leave the Muslims alone". In one letter written after December 2009, he warns
the US about their fight with Al Qaeda: "You are wading into a war with no end
in sight on the horizon..."

PARANOID ABOUT US INTELLIGENCE The all-seeing eyes of US intelligence,
particularly its drones and bugging devices, caused bin Laden to constantly
exhort his lieutenants to observe strict security protocols. One document marked
"lessons learned" provided an exhaustive list of those who had died failing to
follow the rules about not using the internet and switching vehicles and SIM
cards.

He was so concerned that when one of his wives, Um Hamza, came to visit from
Iran in 2010 he ordered that she be stripped of everything, including clothes
before being allowed to proceed.

"Some chips have been lately developed for eavesdropping, so small they could
easily be hidden inside a syringe," he wrote.

PROPAGANDA BLITZ 10 YEARS AFTER 9/11 Many of the files are taken up managing
al-Qaeda's reputation, assessing the impacts of statements released to Al
Jazeera, the Qatari news network, and discussing ways for the terrorist network
to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks.

"We are awaiting the tenth anniversary of the blessed attacks on New York and
Washington which will be in nine months," bin Laden wrote in a letter to his
allies found in the raid.

In another open letter to the American people written after 2009 he taunts the
US over its "pessimistic" leaders, and soldiers "committing suicide" "If fear
enters the hearts of men, winning the war becomes impossible. "How will you win
a war whose cost is like a hurricane blowing violently at your economy and
weakening your dollar?" WANTED SON AS SUCCESSOR It appears that bin Laden
favoured his son, Hamza, as his successor and was hoping to smuggle him to his
compound in Pakistan months before the Navy Seal raid that ended his life.

The correspondence shows bin Laden lieutenants arranging for weapons and
explosives training for Hamza, who is now in his early twenties and remains
free, according to US intelligence offi-cials.

"What truly makes me sad is the mujahideen legions have marched and I have not
joined them," Hamza wrote to his father in 2009, "My beloved father, I announce
to you that I and everyone, God be praised, are following on the same path, the
path of jihad."

In the months before the seal raid, arrangements were being made to bring Hamza
overland to Abbottabad via the Pakistani province of Baluchistan, using a fake
driving licence and identity card.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 21, 2015 Thursday 3:31 PM GMT

UK cities MOST at risk of terror attack...and it's NOT London we should be
worried about

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 469 words


THE most dangerous cities in the UK have been revealed in a new report which
assessed the risk of terror attacks around the world.

EXPRESS

Belfast has been named the most dangerous city in the UK at risk of terror
attacks

Baghdad topped the worldwide list after 380 attacks, 1,141 deaths and more than
3,600 wounded in just a YEAR.

At home, despite Britain being placed on a "severe" terror alert, London was
ranked way down at 400 because the capital has not witnessed a terror attack
since the 7/7 bombings in 2005, in which 56 people were killed.

UK cities which ranked higher than the capital city include Belfast , Bristol ,
Cardiff and Manchester .

This is because of a growing number of anarchists and far-left radical attacks
in Belfast and Cardiff.

Three military vehicles in Bristol were destroyed in an arson attack claimed by
a group called the Informal Anarchist Federation - who have also been linked to
attacks on politicians homes, sabotage of train lines and the destruction of
broadcast mast.

The research has been carried out by global risks analytics company Verisk
Maplecroft, which logged every reported terror incident around the world in the
12 months up to March 2015 and combined that With a record of terror attacks in
the previous five years.

Charlotte Ingham, from Verisk Maplecroft, said: "Despite low-level attacks by
anarchists and left-wing radicals in cities including Bristol and Cardiff,
commercial centres, above all London, remain the primary focus of Islamist
militant groups looking to commit a large-scale terrorist attack in the UK.

"London's low level of risk in the index reflects the success of the British
security services since the 7/7 attacks in preventing any further significant
incidents."

In Europe Paris rocketed to the top 100 cities following the Charlie Hebdo
shootings and kosher supermarket attacks in January, that left 17 people dead.

The French city has seen one of the sharpest rises year-on-year.The world's
seven most dangerous cities are in Iraq including ISIS-controlled Mosul and
Ramadi .

Verisk Maplecroft also identified 12 capital cities around the world facing an
"extreme risk" of terror attacks, including Nairobi in Kenya and Lagos in
Nigeria.

Nigeria is currently battling Islamist group Boko Haram, responsible for the
kidnap of hundreds of women and girls from a school in Chibok in April 2014.

Nairobi in Kenya is throated by a Somali Islamist group al-Shabaab, which
claimed responsibility for the Westgate shopping centre siege in September 2013.



 Related articles Call for 'drastic military action NOW' to save Palmyra from
ISIS or 'all will be lost' Osama Bin Laden kept BEGINNER'S GUIDE to Islam in his
secret bunker among 9/11 books Jihad 'killer' linked to gun attack sneaked onto
migrant boat heading for Europe  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 21, 2015 Thursday 1:49 AM GMT

World at war: Analysts reveal the 20 cities around the globe most at risk of
terror attack;
Researchers assessed the terror threat to 1,300 cities around the world

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 435 words


Belfast has been named as the most dangerous city in Europe, according to an
analysis of the terror risk to 1,300 commercial hubs and urban centres around
the world.

Baghdad topped the list worldwide, after a year which saw 380 attacks resulting
in 1141 deaths and more than 3,600 wounded.

Despite the UK's "severe" terror alert, London ranked down at 400 due to the
lack of a terror incident since the 7/7 bombings. Paris, however, has soared
into the top 100 cities following the Charlie Hebdo shooting.

The research has been compiled by global risk analytics company Verisk
Maplecroft, which advises banks and insurers on the threat of a terror attack in
almost any urban setting around the world.

It has logged every reported terror incident around the world in the 12 months
up to March 2015, and combined that with the longer-term record of attacks in
the previous five years, to come up with its rankings. The top 20 most dangerous
cities in the world

Charlotte Ingham, the company's principal analyst, said it was "imperative" for
businesses considering investment to be aware that terror threats didn't just
vary from country to country.

"An estimated 80 per cent of global GDP is generated from cities," she said.
"Visibility of the sub-national differences in terrorism levels should be an
imperative for multinational organisations looking to understand and price the
risks to assets, employees and supply chains."

Verisk Maplecroft identified 12 capital cities around the world as facing an
"extreme risk" of terror attacks, including Nairobi in Kenya and Lagos in
Nigeria.

It said Paris (97th and 'high risk') had experienced one of the steepest rises
year-on-year due to the severity of the terrorist attack in January 2015 that
left 17 people dead.

"The risk level in Paris is representative of a wider trend for Western
countries, including Belgium, Canada and Australia, where key urban centres face
substantially higher threat levels than elsewhere in the country," the company
said.

London, though categorised as "low risk", remains a "highly attractive" target
for terror attacks due to its international status.

Read more: Who bombs whom in the Middle East?The Charlie Hebdo shootings as the
events unfoldedSevere terror alert: What does it mean for the UK?

"A particular challenge for the [UK] security forces is combating the threat of
attacks by lone-wolves inspired by groups including Isis or al-Qaeda, or
individuals returning from the battlefield in Syria and Iraq," analysts said.

For the full top 20 - plus some selected highlights from the rest of the list -
click through the gallery above.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 21, 2015 Thursday 4:58 PM GMT

List reveals which cities in the world you are most likely to be the victim of a
terrorist attack: Baghdad is deemed the most dangerous on Earth... with Belfast
and Paris Europe's two deadliest

BYLINE: FLORA DRURY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 772 words



     ·    Iraqi capital suffered 380 terror attacks in a year - leaving 1,141
          dead
     ·    Six out of the top 10 most dangerous from Iraq, with three from
          Pakistan
     ·    Not one European city considered to be at 'extreme risk' of terror
          attacks
     ·    Despite this, cities like London, ranked at 400, still a target for
          extremists


A new list has revealed Baghdad is the most dangerous place on earth for
terrorist attacks - while Paris and Belfast are deemed Europe's deadliest.

More than three people died in the Iraqi capital every day in the 12 months to
February on average, while a total of 3,654 people were wounded in 380 separate
terrorist attacks.

It made the city, a constant target for Islamic extremists, the most deadly
place to live in the world when it came to terror attacks.

Scroll down for video

Baghdad is followed by ISIS controlled Mosul and Al Ramadi, which fell to the
Islamic militants just last week.

In fact, the first six of the top 10 most dangerous cities for terrorism in the
world are in Iraq, with the final four are made up of three cities in Pakistan
and one - Benghazi - in Libya.

THE TOP TEN DEADLIEST PLACES IN THE WORLD FOR TERROR ATTACKS

1) Baghdad, Iraq

2)  Mosul, Iraq

3) Al Ramadi, Iraq

4) Ba'qubah, Iraq

5) Kirkuk, Iraq

6) Al Hillah, Iraq

7) Peshawar, Pakistan

8) Benghazi, Libya

9) Quetta, Pakistan

10) Hassu Khel, Pakistan

Meanwhile, the study, by Verisk Maplecroft for its new Global Alerts Dashboard
(GAD), rates a further 54 cities as 'extreme risk'.

However, not one place in Europe is in the category, while the US only has low
risk cities.

Belfast - ranked at number 91 - is the most dangerous for terrorism in Europe,
caused by the on-going paramilitary activity in the Northern Irish city.

Paris moves to 97 and 'high risk' due to the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attacks in
January, which left 17 dead.

A Verisk Maplecroft spokesman explained: 'This risk score does not necessarily
reflect an increase in the potential for further such attacks in the French
capital, however, high profile Western cities are likely to remain desirable
targets for Islamist militants.'

Despite this, London only ranks at 400 - almost a third of the way down the
1,300 cities considered for the study.

What's more, it falls outside the top 10 most dangerous European cities, thanks
in part to efforts stemming terrorist threats following the 7/7 bombings, which
killed 52 civilians.

However, a spokesman for Maplecroft said this does not mean the capital is not
high on the list of terror targets.

'Although the city is categorised as "low risk" in the global city ranking, it
is nevertheless exposed to an ongoing threat of attacks by militant Islamist
groups,' he said.

'The comparative effectiveness of the UK's security forces - illustrated by
ongoing terror arrests - has so far prevented a repeat of a 7/7 style attack.

'However, the British capital remains a highly attractive target for terrorist
organisations, due to the significant propaganda value of a successful attack.'

THE TOURIST DESTINATIONS TARGETED BY TERRORISTS*

1) Jerusalem, Israel (42)

2) Cairo, Egypt (45)

3) Nairobi, Kenya (57)

4)  Bangkok, Thailand (89)

5) Tunis, Tunisia (152)

6) Istanbul, Turkey (171)

7)  Las Vegas, USA (184)

8)  Sydney, Australia (192)

9)  Zanzibar, Tanzania (216)

10)  Cape Town, South Africa (302)

 *Worldwide ranking in brackets

THE TOP TEN MOST DANGEROUS CITIES FOR TERRORISM IN EUROPE*

1) Belfast, Northern Ireland (90)

2) Paris, France (97)

3) Athens, Greece (113)

4) Brussels, Belgium (177)

5) Berlin, Germany (214)

6) Nicosia, Cyprus (239)

7) Pristina (Prishtinë), Serbia (257)

8) Tirana, Albania (314)

9) Skopje, Macedonia  (323)

10) Monaco (340)

 *Worldwide ranking in brackets

The most dangerous city for terrorism in the U.S. is Las Vegas, which was ranked
184 in the world, followed by Kansas City at 190.

Sydney is also ranked in the top 200 - no doubt pushed up by the attack by an
Islamic extremist in a Lindt cafe December last year.

New York - which arguably was the victim of one of the most audacious terror
attacks in history - is only ranked the 369th most dangerous in the world.

In comparison, a number of smaller cities, including Bristol at 179, are ranked
far higher.

However, although these places have been pushed up the list due to low level
attacks by anarchists and left wing radicals, commercial centre remain the
primary focus of Islamist militant groups looking to commit a large-scale
terrorist attack in the UK, the spokesman warned.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                              Mid Somerset Series

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Dog left in a state of terror after man launches attack with 'crutch'

BYLINE: central@midsomnews.co.uk 01749 832336 Twitter: @csgbodhimaia

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 371  words


A GLASTONBURY mum feels like she has lost her best friend after her dog was
attacked outside a school.

Helen Parkinson, 46, was doing the morning school run when she tied up Bailey
outside St John's School while dropping off her daughter.

Less than five minutes later Mrs Parkinson was coming out of the school when she
heard her dog yelping.

"I heard this yelp and my dog has never made that noise before," she said.

"When I reached her she was cowering and crouched down on all fours - she was
frozen rigid and wouldn't respond to me."

It took Mrs Parkinson around ten minutes to get Bailey to respond to her and
stop cowering.

Witnesses said they saw a man attack Bailey with a metal crutch which left
Bailey's face badly bruised.

Mrs Parkinson's neighbour took her and Bailey to the vets where the dog was
given medication for her injuries, which could have caused her to lose an eye.

Although she is healing from her wounds, the attack has affected Bailey
psychologically.

Mrs Parkinson said: "She doesn't want to go out any more. She just stays next to
me all day.

"I used to take her everywhere, she is my best friend.

"But I feel I have lost my best friend because I can't take her out and leave
her in town any more.

"She is terrified of going out or hearing any noise. She is terrified of being
left alone.  It will take a while, if ever, to get her out of it.

"It's heartbreaking. She doesn't understand why that happened to her."

Mrs Parkinson was given Bailey, who is thought to be of the boxer family, to
help make her feel safe following an attempted burglary at her Windmill Hill
home.

"My dog was a rescue dog," said Mrs Parkinson.

"I had an attempted break-in so my son said, 'you are having my dog'.

"We then had another break-in but she chased them off.

"She saved us, she is my hero. It's shocking how cruel people can be."

Police have released a CCTV image of a man they would like to speak to following
the incident.

They believe he may have some information which could help them in their
investigation.

Anyone who witnessed the incident, or who recognises the man in the CCTV image,
is asked to contact the police on 101.

Alternatively, if you would like to remain anonymous, contact Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       May 21, 2015 Thursday 2:58 PM GMT

How a single tweet wiped $136 BILLION off financial markets;
The tweet, containing false information that there had been a terrorist attack
on the White House, was sent by hackers from the Associated Press account

BYLINE: By Olivia Solon

SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 348 words


A false tweet sent in 2013 by a hacked account led to a financial crash that
wiped $136 billion off the value of financial markets within minutes.

The tweet - sent by The Associated Press account (@AP) on 23 April - said:
"Breaking: Two explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured."

Although the information was false - sent out by a hacking group Syrian
Electronic Army - it was retweeted more than 5000 times within five minutes.

The reason it caused the markets to crash is because the high-frequency trading
algorithms that govern parts of our financial systems scan the internet for good
and bad news about how well companies are performing and how stable different
markets are.

These machines then make thousands of trading decisions per second in the hope
of gaining market advantage - without the need for human intervention.

Since Associated Press is usually a reliable source, the robotic traders took
the information at face value and started a panicked cascade of trades that led
to what is known as a 'flash crash'.

Billions were wiped off - $136 billion to be precise - in a matter of seconds,
before any human had the chance to react.

As soon as it was revealed that the tweet contained false information, the
markets corrected themselves.

Researcher Tero Karppi from the University at Buffalo's College of Arts and
Sciences has analysed the incident and describes it as a 'Hack Crash'. He says
it demonstrates the need for more caution in the interpretation of social media
date used for decision making.

"Social media is still a relatively new area of research and a majority of that
research is focused on everyday users. Only recently have we begun to realise
other actors that have tremendous power are monitoring social media feeds," said
Karppi.

"These players come from financial markets, but also from the security industry
and the public sector, to name a few."

"When computation systems begin to analyse what spreads on Twitter and then
makes decisions based on these predictions faster than human response time we
will see unpredictable consequences," he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 21, 2015 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT

Revealed: the world's cities most likely to be hit by a terror attack;
Sixty-four cities around the world are at "extreme" risk, with most in the
Middle East and Asia - and three in Europe

BYLINE: By Andrew Marszal and Tom Shiel, data by Verisk Maplecroft

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 210 words


Baghdad is the world's most dangerous city according to a new index - but the
risk of terrorist attack in European cities has risen sharply in the aftermath
of the Charlie Hebdo terror attacks.

According to the index, which ranks world cities by the likelihood of a terror
attack based on historic trends, 64 cities around the world are at "extreme
risk" of a terror attack.

Of these, the majority are in the Middle East (27) or Asia (19).

Some 14 are in Africa, where the rise of Boko Haram and al-Shabab as well as
political instability have increased risk.

Three are in Europe - Luhansk (46) and Donetsk (56) in Ukraine, and Grozy (54)
in Russia - while Colombia's Cali (59) is the only South American city on the
list.

The British city most at risk of terror attacks in Belfast (91), followed by
Bristol (178), Cardiff (313), Manchester (398) and London (400).

Paris is ranked 97th in the world, up from 201st at the start of the year prior
to the Charlie Hebdo attacks.

The world's seven most dangerous cities are all in Iraq, including Isil-held
Mosul (2) and Ramadi (3).

Cities are ranked based on the intensity and frequency of attacks in the 12
months following February 2014, combined with the number and severity of
incidents in the previous five years.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Pakistan condemns terrorist attack at Mosque in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 22 May: Pakistan on Friday [22 May] strongly condemned deadly
terrorist attack at a mosque in Qadeeh, Saudi Arabia during Friday prayers,
which resulted in the loss of several valuable lives and injuries to scores of
people.

Foreign Office Spokesman Qazi Khalilullah in a statement issued here said the
people and the Government of Pakistan wish to convey their heartfelt sympathies
and deepest condolences to the bereaved families and pray for speedy recovery of
the injured.

"We share the grief of the brotherly people of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia over
this cowardly and deliberate attack against innocent civilians," he said.

The spokesman said Pakistan reiterated its condemnation of terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1347gmt
22 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Arab Civil Parties Organization slams terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 22 May: The Arab Civil Parties Organization condemned the terrorist
attack that targeted a Saudi mosque earlier Friday, leaving some worshipers dead
and others wounded.

In a message sent to the Saudi king today [22 May], the organization said that
terrorism, which violated the sanctity of mosques, will not harm Saudi Arabia,
adding that the Saudi security bodies will bring the plotters of this heinous
act to justice.

The official spokesman for the organization, Mahmud Nafadi, said that the attack
might be planned by the Huthis and their allies, noting that it might aim at
exercising pressure on Riyadh for its anti-terrorism stances.

Arab and Islamic nations support Saudi Arabia, he stressed.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1318gmt 22 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Morocco king conveys condolences to Saudi counterpart over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Dakar, May 22, 2015 (MAP) - HM King Mohammed VI has sent a message of
condolences, compassion and solidarity to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques,
King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, following the terrorist attack east of Saudi
Arabia.

"I learned with deep sorrow and great indignation the news of the cowardly
terrorist attack that targeted a mosque in the Al-Qadih village, which claimed
the lives of innocent victims", HM the King said.

In this message, HM the King "strongly condemns this heinous terrorist act,
contrary to the tolerant principles of our holy religion of Islam and universal
human values," expressing "the solidarity of the Kingdom of Morocco with the
brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia against this aggression, which has ignored the
sanctity of the places of worship that Allah wants to be peaceful places of
worship of God, an aggression that desperately attempts to undermine the
security and stability of your country and holy places".

HM the King also expressed His confidence that the brotherly Saudi people, under
the leadership of King Salman Bin Abd-al-Aziz Al Sa'ud, will overcome "this
difficult moment thanks to their national unity and total solidarity through
good and bad times".

HM the King extended to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, and through him,
to the families of the victims and the brotherly Saudi people, His sincere
condolences and compassion.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1749 gmt 22 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bristol Post

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Anarchist attacks put Bristol on top of terror league

BYLINE: Laura Churchill; laura.churchill@b-nm.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 8-9

LENGTH: 493  words


ANARCHISTS have put Bristol at a higher risk of suffering a terror attack than
London, according to a new report. The city is said to be first in England and
second in the UK, behind Belfast, of places at most danger of terrorism. Far
left anarchist radical attacks are said to be the reason why the city is so far
up the list.

Operation Rhone was set up by police last year to investigate around 120
different attacks in and around the city, which caused more than £20 million of
damage.

They include arsonists hitting 13 communication masts, torching dozens of luxury
cars and burning down a £16 million police firearms training centre in
Portishead.

Groups are also thought to have smashed windows at banks, damaged a courthouse,
broken windows and poured paint over the Bristol Postoff- ices during three
years of mayhem.

In February 2014, three military vehicles in Bristol were destroyed.

The arson was claimed to be the work of a group called the Informal Anarchist
Federation IAF.

The IAF has also been linked to attacks on politicians' homes, the destruction
of a broadcast mast and the sabotaging of train lines in the city.

No one has been killed in the city.

Belfast is ranked at number 91 of the 1,300 listed cities while Bristol comes in
at number 179. Cardiff is 314; Manchester 399 and London 401.

The list, compiled by global risk management firm Verisk Maplecroft, puts
Baghdad in the number one spot, with 12 cities across the world said to be at
"extreme risk".

A spokesman for the firm said: "Despite low-level attacks by anarchists and left
wing radicals in cities including Bristol and Cardiff, commercial centres, above
all London, remain the primary focus of Islamist militant groups looking to
commit a large-scale terrorist attack in the UK. London's low level risk
reflects the success of the British security services since the 7/7 attacks in
preventing any further significant incidents."

Senior investigating officer at Avon and Somerset Police, deputy chief Inspector
Andy Bevan, said: "We are continuing to explore numerous lines of inquiry,
including claims of responsibility which have been made on various websites or
documents.

"We will pursue every avenue we can in order to bring whoever is guilty of
committing the offences to justice."

Operation Rhone was set up in June 2014 with a budget of £35,000 and has to date
cost around £26,000. Six people have been arrested since it began, but green
activist Emma Shepherd has been the only person convicted by the investigation
team. The other five have been released without charge.

The 33-year-old was said to be part of the shadowy group of political extremists
who had been carrying out attacks on buildings and property.

In December last year cops appealed for information on the whereabouts of a
suspect called 'Badger' in connection with two of the attacks.

Badger, whose real name is Huw Norfolk, was thought to have fled abroad and had
managed to evade police for around three years.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anarchists set fire to the police firearms training centre in
Portishead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Security Forces Shoot Alleged Terrorist After Hit-And-Run Attack

LENGTH: 134  words



HIGHLIGHT: On May 20, Israeli security forces gunned down a suspected terrorist
accused of injuring three border police officers in a hit-and-run attack at
a-Tur junction in eastern Jerusalem.


News: On May 20, Israeli security forces gunned down a suspected terrorist
accused of injuring three border police officers in a hit-and-run attack at
a-Tur junction in eastern Jerusalem. The suspect, reportedly affiliated with
Hamas, has been identified as 41-year old Amran Abu Dhein. Police spokesperson
Micky Rosenfeld said: 'What we know is that he is affiliated with Hamas's
military wing and is related to Alaa Abu Dhein, who gunned down eight yeshiva
students from the Mercaz Harav Yeshiva in Kiryat Moshe in March of 2008,'
(JPost). However, Dhein's brother stated, Amran Abu Dhein worked as a vehicular
security officer with a number of Israeli transport companies (Israel Radio).
Dhein's relatives condemned the killing, suggesting that the incident was an
accident and he was wrongfully killed.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 22, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Javid's attack on May over TV terror censorship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words


THERESA MAY'S plan to introduce counter-extremism powers to vet broadcasters'
programmes before they are transmitted was attacked by a Conservative Cabinet
colleague, a leaked letter has disclosed.

Sajid Javid described the Home Secretary's proposal to give Ofcom extra powers
to weed out extremist content as a threat to freedom of speech.

The leaked letter to David Cameron showed the Business Secretary's concerns that
Mrs May's plans would amount to "a fundamental shift in the way UK broadcasting
is regulated, away from the current framework which is designed to take
appropriate account of the right to freedom of expression".

Mr Javid pointed out that other countries that have imposed similar powers "are
not known for their compliance with rights related to freedom of expression and
the Government may not wish to be associated with such regimes".

He sent the letter on March 12 when he was Culture Secretary to inform Mr
Cameron that he could not support Mrs May's counter-extremism strategy, and sent
a copy to the Home Secretary.

The letter, published by the Guardian, was written in response to a request from
Mrs May for approval from ministers in the Cabinet's home affairs committee and
the national security committee.

The publication of the strategy to tackle non-violent extremism was delayed
around the same time the letter was sent. At the time, it was thought that the
Liberal Democrats in coalition had blocked it.

However, the letter shows that opposition existed among Mrs May's Tory
colleagues, which may have contributed to the decision to delay the publication.

Mr Cameron last week outlined plans to fast-track powers to tackle
radicalisation, including a commitment to toughen Ofcom's role in taking action
against channels that broadcast extremist content, alongside banning and
disruption orders for people who seek to radicalise others or use hate speech in
public.

Both the Home Office and Downing Street said they would not comment on leaked
correspondence.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 22, 2015 Friday 8:32 PM GMT

How Nazi secret police files could stop terror attacks;
The Nazi secret police were among the first to use geoprofiling to locate
resistance fighters based on leaflets they distributed. Now scientists believe
similar methods could track terror cells.

BYLINE: By Sarah Knapton Science Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 601 words


Nazi secret police files detailing the hunt for resistance fighters in Berlin
during World War 2 could be used to locate terrorist cells today, scientists
believe.

The Gestapo was one of the first organisations in the world to use the technique
of geoprofiling in the search for husband and wife Otto and Elise Hampel.

After learning of the death of Elise's brother in France, the couple began
distributing postcards with anti-Nazi messages in apartment buildings around
Berlin, hoping to encourage resistance.

But the investigators realised that there was a pattern to the distribution -
within their neighbourhood but not too close to their home. The couple were
discovered, tried and executed in 1943.

The Gestapo kept detailed records of the hunt, recording the locations of the
postcards and detailing how they eventually found the Hampels.

Now mathematical biologist Steven Le Comber from Queen Mary University and Texas
State criminologist Kim Rossmo have used the information to help perfect a
computer algorithm which could trace terrorists who disseminate leaflets and
propaganda.

They believe that terror cells could be located based on the distribution sites
of extreme literature. Their research is published in the journal Geospatial
Intelligence Review, a classified journal which only intelligence organisations
are allowed to read in case it tips off criminals to their methods.

· Painting stolen by Nazis to be sold by rightful owner who saw it being seized
from his uncle's home 80 years ago

· Hitler had son with French teen

· 'We know where Jack the Ripper lived' - experts

While it took the Gestapo two years and 214 postcards to use geoprofiling
methods to trace the Hampels, the new algorithm could have found the couple in
just a few months.

"In this case, of course, we are very much on the side of the 'insurgents','
said Professor Rossmo.

"However, terrorists frequently engage in low-level activity such as leafleting
and anti-government graffiti prior to major attacks, and this study shows how
geographic profiling could help locate terrorist bases before more serious
incidents occur."

Geographic profiling is a statistical technique originally developed in by
Rossmo to prioritise large lists of suspects in cases of serial crime such as
murder, rape and arson.

The model uses the spatial locations of linked crime sites to identify areas
associated with the criminals, such as their home or workplace.

It is now widely used by law enforcement agencies around the world, including
the Metropolitan Police.

The new study shows that the distribution of leaflets can be used in the same
way.

More recently Dr Le Comber has been using the algorithm to locate the origins of
the outbreak of disease, such as malaria infested pools in Africa.

"The problem is essentially the same,' said Dr Le Comber. 'But instead of using
the spatial locations of crimes to locate the offender's home, you're using the
addresses of patients with - for example - malaria to locate the breeding sites
of the mosquitoes that transmit the disease.

"In both instances, you typically have a large area to search, with lots of
potential 'suspects' -people with criminal records, or water sources such as
ponds, water tanks, or drainage ditches - and only limited resources. Anything
that can effectively prioritise the search is potentially of huge importance.'

The team also used the programme to locate the probable addres s of Jack the
Ripper based on the locations of his murder victims.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

Bahrain PM condemns Saudi mosque "terror attack"

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama, May 22 (BNA): His Royal Highness Prime Minister Prince Khalifah bin
Salman Al-Khalifa has sent a cable of condolences to the Custodian of the Two
Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abd-al-Aziz Al-Saud over the victims of the
cowardly terror attack which targeted Qatif city in the Eastern province.

HRH Premier reiterated Bahrain's full-fledged support to Saudi Arabia and the
measures it takes to safeguard its security and stability, and combat all forms
of terrorism, describing the terror blast as a brutal crime that contravenes the
tolerant precepts of the Islamic religion.

HRH the Prime Minister extended sincere condolences to families of the victims,
and wished the wounded speedy recovery.

He prayed to Allah Almighty to bless Saudi leadership, government and people
with lasting security and stability.

HRH Premier sent similar condolatory cables to the Saudi Crown Prince, Deputy
Premier and Interior Minister HRH Prince Mohammed bin Nayef bin Abdulziz Al
Saud, and Deputy Crown Prince, Second Deputy Premier and Defence Minister HRH
Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 0055 gmt 23 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

Egypt's chief of staff condemns Saudi "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 23 May: Egyptian Chief of Staff General Mahmud Hijazi on Saturday [23
May] condemned the terrorist attack that targeted a mosque in Al-Qatif city in
Saudi Arabia on Friday and left scores of worshipers dead and injured.

Speaking at the inauguration of a meeting with his Arab counterparts, Hijazi
condoled with Saudi King Salman Bin-Abd-al-Aziz Al Sa'ud for the death of the
victims.

"Such terrorist acts will only make us more insistent to uproot terrorism from
our nations for our peoples to live in security and peace," Hijazi said.

Participants observed a minute of silence in mourning of victims of the Arab
world.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0933gmt 23 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 23, 2015 Saturday 4:46 PM GMT

EUROVISION TERROR ALERT: Fears over BOMB ATTACK during live show

BYLINE: Ed Gleave

LENGTH: 255 words


EUROVISION has been hit by a terror alert over fears a bomb attack will happen
while the contest is live on air.

Organisers have put stringent security measure in place amid concerns the annual
event could be targeted by terrorists.

Airport-style checks are being carried out on visitors at the Wiener Stadthalle
in Vienna where Eurovision is being hosted this year.

All bags are being scanned while security staff are carrying out personal metal
detector scans on people entering the venue.

Just like at airports, liquids over 150ml are banned with drinks regularly being
confiscated from visitors.

Around 200million viewers will be tuning in to watch tonight's show, which airs
in the UK at 8pm on BBC1.

A security warning which is posted around the venue in the Austrian capital
insists the checks are necessary.

It reads: "At the Eurovision Song Contest premises, we assure airport security
at all time and therefore please be advised that liquids are allowed only up to
150ml.

It also states: "Security is always a top priority."

The move comes amid growing tension between fans over Russia's anti-gay laws.

At last year's Eurovision, held in Denmark, the Russian entrant was booed by the
crowd.

There was also violence nearby when Eurovision was held in Baku, Azerbaijan in
2012.

Fans will tonight see Electro Velvet representing the UK with song Still In Love
With You, which will be the fifth performance of the night.

Sweden, Australia, Italy and Russia are among the favourites to take the trophy.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 23, 2015 Saturday 5:07 PM GMT

Eurovision on high alert amid fears of 'terror attack' during live show

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor

LENGTH: 304 words


TONIGHT'S Eurovision song contest is on red alert over fears it could be the
target of a terror attack.

AP

Electro Velvet is Britain's entrant in the singing contest

The warning was triggered after organisers announced they were installing tough
new security measures in a bid to thwart any potential attack.

Airport-style checks will be in place for the singing contest, with liquids over
150ml banned inside the venue.

Staff will also be carrying out metal detector tests on visitors at the Wiener
Stadthalle in Vienna.

It reads: "At the Eurovision Song Contest premises, we assure airport security
at all time and therefore please be advised that liquids are allowed only up to
150ml.

It also states: "Security is always a top priority."

The annual celebration of kitsch-pop will be watched by around 190 million
people in 40 countries.

AP

This year 27 finalists are vying for the crown

Organisers have been testing stage installations ahead of this evening's event,
which will be broadcast on BBC1 at 8pm.

However, the cold and rain gripping Vienna is unlikely to dampen spirits.

The contest was won last year by Austria's bearded drag queen Conchita Wurst,
bringing 2015's show to the Austrian capital.

To mark 60 years since the first Eurovision in 1955, Australia has been given a
wild card entry and singer Guy Sebastian and his up-tempo song "Tonight Again"
is one of the favourites.

This year 27 finalists are vying for the crown, with Slovenia taking to the
stage first and Italy the final act.

The Eurovision Song Contest has been named the longest-running TV music
competition by Guinness World Records.

Related articles Eurovision Song Contest presenter Graham Norton: There's a lot
of national pride at stake Sixty years of Eurovision: The history of the song
contest Eurovision 2015 live: Follow the action as it happens

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2015 Saturday 6:40 AM GMT

Youth, 17, charged with plotting 'imminent' terror attack after police raid
doctor's family home in Melbourne and find three home-made pipe bombs... and his
parents had NO IDEA what he was up to

BYLINE: BELINDA GRANT GEARY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 701 words



     ·    Police charged a 17-year-old boy from Greenvale with terrorism
          offences
     ·    This follows the raid of a property in Melbourne  about 12:30pm on
          Friday
     ·    Three bombs were located, taken to a nearby park and 'rendered safe'
     ·    Police said there were no links to earlier Anzac Day raids in
          Melbourne
     ·    Officers also assured the community there was no lingering threat
     ·    The 17-year-old will face a Victorian children's court on Monday
          morning


A 17-year-old boy has been charged with terrorism offences following a raid at a
home in Greenvale, in Melbourne's north.

The teen, who can not be identified for legal reasons, was charged on Friday
afternoon with engaging in an act in preparation for, or planning, a terrorist
act.

Heavily armed officers from Victoria Police and the Australian Federal Police
stormed a property in Greenvale following nine days of investigation into the
'imminent threat'.

AFP Deputy Commissioner Mike Phelan said three 'rudimentary' explosive devices
were discovered on the property before they were taken to a nearby park and
'rendered safe'.

'This was a methodical, measured and precise action on behalf of Victoria Police
and the AFP.'

'Some Victorians are going to be alive because of it. Had we not intervened,
there was a real threat of action being taken,' he said during a press
conference on Saturday.

Scroll down for video

Victoria Police Acting Deputy Commissioner Robert Hill could not confirm when or
where the alleged attack was meant to take place, however, he has revealed it
was a 'threat against the community of Australia'.

'We want to assure the community we have contained this situation.'

'There is no longer an imminent threat to the community of Victoria.'

Deputy Commissioner Hill said a report to the National Security hotline sparked
the nine day investigation.

He also said the 17-year-old's family were 'undoubtedly' surprised to learn of
the boy's arrest.

'We have dealt with his family and his family are a caring, loving family that
are now very, very distraught as a consequence of what is alleged.'

Deputy Commissioner Hill said law enforcement agencies working with radicalised
children, in Australia and around the world, are now facing a new challenge.

'We have a new challenge where we have young people that have been influenced by
radical thinking, something we're dealing with as a law enforcement body with
Government, but more importantly with community.'

Deputy Commissioner Phelan said the wider community also need to start closely
monitoring their children's behaviour and online activity.

'We've got to do something about this problem. All of us. All in the community.
It's got nothing to do with faith,' he said.

'This is about all the community, all families getting together, having a
greater understanding of what your children are doing.'

He said, as a father, he has a 'pretty good handle' on what his kids are doing
and it is up to every parent to take the same interest in their children.

'We all have to take an interest because the risk to the community is too
great.'

During a press conference today Prime Minister Tony Abbott acknowledged the
seriousness of the alleged attack, which he said was in a 'reasonably advanced'
state of planning.

'The tragic truth is that there are people amongst us, not very many it's true,
but there are some people amongst us who would do us harm and it's vital that
our police and security agencies be given all the support and all the resources
that they need to do their job properly.'

The 17-year-old was taken into custody after he and an unidentified female were
intercepted by specialist police forces as they tried to leave the premises in a
car.

Police said the arrest is not linked to Operation Rising or the raids that took
place last month around ANZAC Day.

Despite earlier reports of a 14-year-old being in custody, a spokesperson for
NSW Police said there had been no arrests made in Sydney in relation to the
alleged attack.

The Joint Counter Terrorism Team have confirmed officers did attended locations
in Sydney on Friday, however, no arrests were made and 'there will be no further
comment on that activity'.

The 17-year-old has been remanded in custody and will face the Children's Court
on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2015 Saturday 6:39 AM GMT

'If you see your child taking an unusual interest in household devices then you
need to be concerned': Police urge Melbourne parents to be on alert after
charging teen, 17, with terror attack plot that was 'at an advanced stage'

BYLINE: BELINDA GRANT GEARY and LOUISE CHEER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1239 words



     ·    Police charged a 17-year-old boy with preparing or planning a
          terrorist act
     ·    This follows the raid of a property in Melbourne  about 12:30pm on
          Friday
     ·    Police said three bombs were located and taken to a park to be
          neutralised
     ·    Family said they were shocked by the arrest and described him as
          'gentle'
     ·    His sister said her brother had dreams of becoming a doctor
     ·    Police said there were no links to earlier Anzac Day raids in
          Melbourne
     ·    Officers also assured the community there was no lingering threat
     ·    The 17-year-old will face a Victorian children's court on Monday
          morning


Authorities allege the unidentified 17-year-old charged with committing alleged
terror offences on Friday, who is currently cooperating with police, was in the
'advanced stages' of preparing a bomb which he had intended to set off at an
unspecified event in coming days.

Acting Victorian Police Commissioner Tim Cartwright said, at this stage, there
is no evidence to suggest which event the young man had allegedly planned to
target, however, police are confident they thwarted an 'imminent threat'.

'We do believe the young man intended to explode the device at an event over the
coming days.'

'We will allege he was well advanced in preparing a bomb,' he said on Sunday.

Scroll down for video

Commissioner Cartwright said there is no evidence to suggest the 17-year-old is
linked to any extremist groups, however, police are continuing to investigate
how the young man may have become 'radicalised'.

'We continue to look for linkages. We also look to try and identify what it is
that led this man to this situation.'

As the internet gives extremist groups unprecedented access to young, and often
vulnerable, members of the community, Commissioner Cartwright warned parents
they must take a strong interest in their children's behaviour.

'If you see your young people taking an unusual interest in what would normally
be household devices - electronics, batteries, chemicals - then you need to be
concerned.'

He urged the public to remain calm as criminal activity of this nature usually
only relates to an extremely small number of people in the community.

'It's not about faith, it is about criminality.'

'What's important for all Victorians to understand is these are still isolated
incidents carried out by usually young men, sometimes others, who are generally
isolated from the broader community.'

He said law enforcement agencies are doing everything in their power to collect
more information on the incident.

Commissioner Cartwright said evidence is still being collected and it is likely
investigations will continue in the property on Monday.

He said the young man's family were 'shocked and surprised' by his arrest and
they had no prior knowledge of his alleged criminal activity.

'In this case, as is often the case, the families are as much a victim as the
rest of the community.'

He said police are doing 'everything they can' to support the family.

These comments come as the boy's 21-year-old sister revealed her brother wanted
to study medicine and would not have been influenced easily because he did not
have many friends.

She paints a picture of a 'kind, gentle and softly spoken' teenager who never
raised his voice and grew up in middle-class Melbourne, according to the  Sunday
Herald Sun.

But what his family could not see were online posts made on his Facebook page he
had blocked from his relatives.

Among the posts were allegedly fundamentalist views of Islam, News Corp
reported.

Neighbours of the boy were left equally as stunned as his family by his arrest
on Friday afternoon.

One woman, who lives in the same street as the teenager and had emigrated to
Australia from Iraq, told The Age  she found it hard to comprehend someone
wanted to bring harm to a country that had given her a second chance at life.

'We didn't expect anyone to have bombs, or there to be terrorist attacks,' she
said.

The 17-year-old was charged with engaging in an act in preparation for, or
planning, a terrorist act after a Melbourne property was raided by police.

Heavily armed officers from Victoria Police and the Australian Federal Police
stormed the property on Friday, following nine days of investigation into the
'imminent threat'.

AFP Deputy Commissioner Mike Phelan said three 'rudimentary' explosive devices
were discovered on the property before they were taken to a nearby park and
'rendered safe'.

'This was a methodical, measured and precise action on behalf of Victoria Police
and the AFP,' he told reporters on Saturday at a press conference.

'Had we not intervened, there was a real threat of action being taken.'

At the same press conference, Victoria Police acting deputy commissioner Robert
Hill could not confirm when or where the alleged attack was meant to take place,
however, he has revealed it was a 'threat against the community of Australia'.

'We want to assure the community we have contained this situation,' he said.

'There is no longer an imminent threat to the community of Victoria.'

Mr Hill said a report to the National Security hotline sparked the nine-day
investigation.

He also said the 17-year-old's family were 'undoubtedly' surprised to learn of
the boy's arrest.

'We have dealt with his family and his family are a caring, loving family that
are now very, very distraught as a consequence of what is alleged,' Mr Hill
said.

Mr Hill said law enforcement agencies working with radicalised children, in
Australia and around the world, are now facing a new challenge.

'We have a new challenge where we have young people that have been influenced by
radical thinking, something we're dealing with as a law enforcement body with
Government, but more importantly with community,' he said.

Mr Phelan said the wider community also need to start closely monitoring their
children's behaviour and online activity.

'We've got to do something about this problem. All of us. All in the community.
It's got nothing to do with faith,' he said.

'This is about all the community, all families getting together, having a
greater understanding of what your children are doing.'

Mr Phelan said, as a father, he had a 'pretty good handle' on what his kids are
doing and it was up to every parent to take the same interest in their children.

'We all have to take an interest because the risk to the community is too
great,' he said.

During a press conference on Saturday, Prime Minister Tony Abbott acknowledged
the seriousness of the alleged attack.

'The tragic truth is that there are people amongst us, not very many it's true,
but there are some people amongst us who would do us harm and it's vital that
our police and security agencies be given all the support and all the resources
that they need to do their job properly,' he said.

The 17-year-old was taken into custody after he and an unidentified female were
intercepted by specialist police forces as they tried to leave the premises in a
car.

Police said the arrest was not linked to Operation Rising or the raids that took
place last month around Anzac Day.

Despite earlier reports of a 14-year-old being in custody, a spokesperson for
NSW Police said there had been no arrests made in Sydney in relation to the
alleged attack.

The Joint Counter Terrorism Team have confirmed officers did attended locations
in Sydney on Friday, however, no arrests were made and 'there [would] be no
further comment on that activity'.

The 17-year-old has been remanded in custody and will face the Children's Court
on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday

Yemeni president condemns terror attack on Saudi mosque

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Yemeni President condemns terrorist bombing in a mosque
in Qatif"]

President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi of the Republic of Yemen has strongly condemned
the terrorist bombing that targeted a mosque on Friday [22 May] in Qudayh town,
in Qatif Governorate resulting in killing and injuring a number of worshippers.

The Yemeni president expressed, according to Yemen News Agency, his condolences
to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and
the families of the victims.

He stressed that the Kingdom under the leadership of the Custodian of the Two
Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and alongside all countries and
peace-loving peoples will overcome the serious scourge of terrorism which
threatens the international peace and security.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 24 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 25, 2015 Monday

Libya's rival defence ministry decries attack on oil tanker as "terror act"

LENGTH: 220 words


The Defence Ministry of Libya's self-proclaimed National Salvation Government
has condemned the airstrike that hit an oil tanker off the coast of the city of
Sirte as "a cowardly act of terrorism", Al-Jazeera reported on 24 May.

Jets belonging to the Libyan army, commanded by Lt-Gen Khalifah Haftar attacked
the tanker, the report said.

The ministry considers "the deliberate, repeated targeting of civilians to be
desperate attempts to create a fictitious living crisis", Defence Ministry
spokesman, Muhammad Abd-al-Kafi said in a statement.

He added that the aim of such attempts was "to put Libyan citizens under
increased pressure".

The Ministry of Defence and other government bodies, he said, "will go after
those involved in these crimes defined as crimes against humanity".

Al-Jazeera also reported that nine Libyan soldiers were killed and 13 others
injured in clashes in the eastern city of Benghazi.

Fighting erupted between forces loyal to Haftar, the army chief backed by the
internationally-recognized government, and loyalists of the Benghazi
Revolutionaries Shura Council, a coalition of Islamist militias.

One council fighter was also injured.

Haftar's forces were trying to advance into the camp of the 17 February
Battalion controlled by council fighters.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2116 gmt 24 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 25, 2015 Monday

Turkish military says "group of terrorists" launch mortar attack on base in east

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report in English by website of Turkish pro-secular, mass-circulation
daily Hurriyet on 25 May

[Unattributed report: "Mortars target military base in eastern Turkey"]

A "group of terrorists" launched a mortar attack on a military base in the
eastern Turkish province of Hakkari on May 25, the Turkish Armed Forces has
announced in an official statement.

The military base in the Daglica district of Hakkari was shelled by an
unidentified group, but the attack was halted after the military hit back,
according to the statement.

It added that there were no injuries or casualties as a result of the skirmish.

A formal investigation has been launched into the clashes.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 25 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 25, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Rising fears of chemical attack by UK Jihadists;
Isis terrorists turn to bombs laced with chlorine ; Rennie: Carmichael must stay

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes ; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 653 words


Counterterrorism police are focusing on the "growing threat" of a chemical
weapons attack by British jihadists returning from Iraq and Syria, The Times has
learnt.

Bombs laced with chlorine, a substance that is freely available in large
quantities in Britain, have become the "chemical weapons of choice" for Islamic
State, security experts have warned.

A quarter of the roadside bombs in Tikrit, the city north of Baghdad that was
retaken this year from Isis by Iraqi forces, contained the toxic substance,
raising fears that jihadists plan to deploy their chemical bomb-making skills
upon their return to Britain.

Colonel Hamish de Bretton-Gordon, one of the country's leading experts on
chemical warfare, has urged ministers to tighten controls on the sale of
chlorine. "As more jihadists return to this country there is a growing chance
[of a chlorine bomb attack]," he said. "That to me puts it through the threshold
where we should look into this seriously."

The chemical has a range of uses, such as purifying water and disinfecting
surfaces, but can prove lethal if inhaled. An improvised chlorine bomb would
cause carnage if detonated on the Tube, on the mainline railway network or in a
shopping centre.

The chorine that is often used in bombs comes from the cylinder on the back of
household fridges. Militants strip off the steel bottle and attach an explosive
charge to make a simple improvised chlorine device - something that could be
repeated in Britain. "Somebody could go to a waste site where people chuck away
fridges [in Britain] and get a whole bunch of these things and blow them up,"
Colonel de Bretton-Gordon said.

The former commanding officer of the Joint Chemical, Biological, Radiological
and Nuclear Regiment, who left the military in 2011, said that Britain should
impose more stringent rules on substances such as chlorine. There are tight
controls in Iraq over the purchase of chlorine. In Britain, by contrast, anyone
is allowed to buy 90 tonnes of the substance without a licence.

It is understood that the authorities do monitor the purchase of chlorine and
other materials that could be used in bomb-making, to uncover any stockpiling.
However, as chlorine is freely available across the country, security sources
conceded that it posed a risk.

One policing source said that counterterrorism units were aware of the
possibility of terrorists using a chlorine bomb on British soil.

The emergence of an attempted chlorine bomb attack at a shopping centre in
Indonesia this year, allegedly by a group of jihadists returning from Syria, has
concentrated minds on the exportation of Islamic State chemical warfare.

The makeshift bomb consisted of a 5kg tin of crystallised chlorine and four
plastic bottles, each one litre in size and placed inside a cardboard box. One
bottle contained hydrogen peroxide, one contained hydrogen chloride and the
other two contained water.

There were also two detonators and two explosive charges. The idea was for the
first charge to mix the chemicals Continued on page 2, col 5 Continued from page
1 previously lied when asked about the affair. A Cabinet Office inquiry found
that he and his special adviser, Euan Roddin, had arranged to leak a memo in
April that purported to show that Ms Sturgeon had told the French ambassador she
preferred David Cameron as prime minister to Ed Miliband.

The substance of the allegation was denied by both the first minister and Sylvie
Bermann, the ambassador.

The MP issued an apology on Friday and forfeited his ministerial severance,
though Ms Sturgeon said he had owned up "only because he got caught". Yesterday
Mr Rennie described Mr Carmichael's behaviour as "aberrant". The MP's chances of
survival seem increasingly tenuous. Several members of the public have asked the
parliamentary standards commissioner to examine whether he has broken the
Commons code of conduct.

Any MP who breaches the code may face a by-election.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday

Cyprus strongly condemns terrorist attack on Saudi Arabia mosque

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

[Unattributed report: "Cyprus MFA Strongly Condemns Terrorist Attack on Imam Ali
Mosque"]

Cyprus Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly condemned on Monday [25 May] the
terrorist attack last Friday on the Imam Ali Mosque in Qatif, Saudi Arabia, that
killed 21 worshipers, while injuring 80.

"The Cypriot MFA expresses concern over the fact that the victims were innocent
people that were exercising their religious duties," a press release issued by
the MFA writes.

The Ministry conveyed its sincere condolences to the relatives of the victims
and the Saudi Arabian people, reiterating Cyprus` commitment to combating all
forms of terrorism.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 0816 gmt 26 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday

Officers survived Garissa terror attack - Kenya police

LENGTH: 500 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "We have accounted for all missing
officers, police chief says over Yumbis Al-Shabab attack" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 26 May

Garissa, Kenya: Security officials in Yumbis area, Garissa County [northeastern
Kenya] now say all police officers who were missing after an ambush have been
accounted for.

Garissa County acting police commander Shadrack Maithya said after a search in
the area, they found all officers who were missing after the Monday evening
incident.

"We have accounted for all the officers. Two were critically injured and they
are being taken to Nairobi for treatment," said Maithya.

Maithya said at least two members of the terror group were killed and a gun
found on them. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said five vehicles
belonging to police were burnt.

"In ensuing tactical mission, two police officers were critically injured, three
sustained minor injuries while five vehicles were burnt down," said Boinnet.

He made the remarks even as Al-Shabab claimed they had killed more than a dozen
police officers in the incident.

The militant group said five police vehicles were burnt down in the incident
that happened as the officers dashed to rescue their colleagues who had been hit
by a roadside land mine on Monday [25 May] evening.

According to Boinnet, the officers were headed to a place where another team of
officers had been injured in an earlier attack through a land mine Monday.

In the earlier attack, three police officers were injured after their vehicle
ran over a land mine. One was shot in the hand. It was then that a second team
dashed there to rescue them.

On the way, they ran into an ambush by gunmen who were waiting forcing them to
scamper for safety. It took authorities almost 12 hours to confirm the safety of
the officers who were on board the police vehicles.

Police spokesman George Kinoti said no death had been confirmed.

"Contrary to earlier reports of deaths on our side, no death so far," said
Kinoti.

The same area was in the spotlight last week, after the militants raided mosques
and lectured worshipers.

A day later, Kenyan security forced said they thwarted a planned attack by
Al-Shabab gunmen on a village in Fafi Constituency at the Kenya-Somalia.

The gunmen even hoisted flags there before the security forces arrived.

This came two days after Al-Shabab crossed into Kenya from Somalia, and went to
"preach" for two hours in a mosque in Ijara warning the mosque leaders from
exposing sympathizers. They were led by wanted Al-Shabab leader Mohamed Kuno
alias Gamadhere.

They mentioned several local leaders in the dress down warning them against
stepping foot in the county before leaving. Gamadhere comes from Garissa County
and a bounty is on his head for anyone who will help capture him.

He has been linked to the Garissa university attack on 2 April in which 148
people were killed by terrorists.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 26 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ex-terrorist revealed 'disaster' of 1974 attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 314 words


KIERAN Conway was head of the IRA's intelligence-gathering department during the
1970s.

In his memoirs, called Southside Provisional, he confesses that the attacks on
The Tavern in The Town and The Mulberry Bush pubs on November 21, 1974, left him
"ashamed and appalled."

He also says he knew from the very start that the Birmingham Six were innocent.
The book is significant because it is the first time the IRA has publicly
admitted it carried out the attack.

In his book he said that where off-duty soldiers were the targets of the
bombings "I had little sympathy for either the soldiers or the unfortunate
civilians who had been sharing their drinking space."

He went on: "The Birmingham bombs were another matter."

The attacks on the Birmingham pubs - neither of which had any military
connection - "went against everything we claimed to stand for."

The bombings came after British police disrupted the funeral arrangements for
James McDaid, a lieutentant in the Birmingham Brigade of the IRA who blew
himself up while trying to attack Coventry Telephone Exchange. "Tempers were
high and I, for one, certainly at first feared that the local IRA had knowingly
caused these dreadful casualties - 21 people killed and a great many others
injured."

But he claimed the IRA unit responsible could not find a working telephone box,
so they were unable to issue a warning suffi-ciently in time to clear the bars
and prevent the mass loss of life."

And he revealed two other senior IRA figures, Dave O'Connell and Kevin Mallon,
were themselves "furious, fully recognising not just the damage the bombing had
caused to the IRA but its immorality as well."

Conway said there was a debrief over the attacks with the IRA's English
Commander, although he was not involved.

He described the Birmingham pub bombings as "a total disaster." He left the
Republican movement in 1993 and is now a lawyer in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 26, 2015
                                 First Edition

'Increased threat' of chlorine attack, says ex-Army chief;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: David Connett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 345 words


Britain faces a growing threat from a home-made chemical weapons attack, it was
reported last night.

The growing use of bombs containing chlorine by jihadists in Iraq and Syria are
a threat to the UK, according to one of the country's leading chemical warfare
experts.

Colonel Hamish de Bretton-Gordon warned that the threat came from UK-born
jihadists trained overseas in bomb-making techniques returning to this country.

"As more jihadists return to this country there is a growing chance [of a
chlorine bomb attack]. That to me puts it through the threshold where we should
look into this seriously," he warned.

A former commander of the Joint Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
Regiment, he told The Times there was an urgent need for more stringent controls
on the sale of chemicals such as chlorine.

The retired head of chemical and biological weapons for the Army believes Isis
terrorists returning to the UK are "highly likely" to use something like
chlorine because it is easier to get hold of than guns and explosives.

Iraqi government officials reported that bomb attacks on their security forces
north of Baghdad earlier this year resulted in troops displaying symptoms
consistent with a chlorine chemical attack.

Similar symptoms were reported by Kurdish Peshmerga soldiers fighting Isis for
control of the Syrian-Turkish border town of Kobani last September. Security
officials claimed that Isis had captured supplies of the chemical after seizing
control of a water-filtration plant.

Colonel de Bretton-Gordon claimed that chlorine was freely obtainable from
household fridges and would cause devastation if used in a major shopping centre
or on the London Underground.

However critics on social media pointed out that fridges did not contain
chlorine gas but an inert refrigerant and accused him of "scaremongering".

The Metropolitan Police, which leads the UK counterterrorism response, declined
to comment.

Chlorine is widely used for water purification, to sanitise swimming pools and
in cleaning fluids. It is also used in plastics and pharmaceuticals.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

Kenyan paper urges government to stop terror attacks in northeastern region

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of editorial entitled "Stop this Al-Shabab menace in the north" published
by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 27 May, subheading
as published

The succession of terrorist infiltration in Garissa County [northeastern Kenya]
over the past few days, resulting in the killing of two policemen and the
burning of five patrol vehicles, must raise the red flag.

Although initial reports of up to 20 security officers killed that caused a
great deal of alarm and outrage were thankfully shown to be false, it still is
no comfort that Al-Shabab bandits still seem to be operating with impunity in a
vast region.

One would reasonably expect that with the terrorist outrages in the region
witnessed over the past year, every inch of Kenyan soil in proximity to the
Somalia border would be teeming with security forces.

We acknowledge that policing such a large land mass from the extensive Somali
border and many miles inland cannot be easy. However, the frequency of incidents
suggests that not enough is being done.

Surrendering to terrorists

From the Mpeketoni massacre in Lamu County last June to the series of terrorist
attacks that include two major separate incidents in Mandera County towards the
end of the same year and the Garissa University College attack last month, it
would appear that the government is surrendering a large swathe of Kenya to
terrorists.

The latest incidents just reinforce that view. One would expect that after just
one terrorist attack, the security forces would respond with all the power at
their command to ensure that it does not happen again.

Kenyans demand security across the entire country and expect tough preventive
measures and robust responses at any sign of danger. What is needed is
deployment of enough boots on the ground with adequate weaponry, mobility, air
support, and all other resources needed to tackle any threats.

That will be much more useful than denials, obfuscation, and deployment of
social media warriors to launch diversionary tirades against the imaginary
enemies.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 27 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

TV reports police foil major terrorist attack in Afghan capital

LENGTH: 742 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 27 May

[Presenter] Afghan police had information that terrorists would attack the Hetal
guesthouse in Kabul city. Interior Minister Nuralhaq Olumi said that eliminating
all the four terrorists without suffering casualties is an achievement for the
Afghan forces, but he emphasized that it is being investigated how terrorists
could succeed in coming to the area. Meanwhile, 1TV has learned that the deputy
head of operations in the Kabul police headquarters had a dispute with the Kabul
police chief over an armoured vehicle and that he has not come to the office for
several weeks. He is responsible to for carrying out counterterror operations in
Kabul city at night. However, he dismissed the report. Sajad Mohammadi has more
details.

[Correspondent] Again, terrorists disrupted sleep of the residents of the
capital by carrying out a group terrorist attack. The attack began at 11:00 pm
last night. Four assailants equipped with hand grenades and rocket launchers
tried to enter the Hetal guesthouse in the diplomatic area of Wazir Mohammad
Akbar Khan. Mostly, foreign nationals are living in the area. One of the
attackers blew himself up on the guesthouse's gate to open the way for his
colleagues, but a strong security barrier did not allow them to enter the
guesthouse.

[Yaqot Khan, security guard, captioned, talking to camera] I saw a vehicle was
parked and the attackers walked out. The security forces were not there and I
was not allowed to go out.

[Correspondent] The attackers fought the security forces for hours. They used
hand grenades and rockets during the clash, but they could not enter the
guesthouse. They could enter the security guards' room which is bulletproof and
apparently it turned into a good sanctuary for them. Finally, the attackers were
killed in the bulletproof room this morning. However, as with after every attack
in the capital, the first question is this, how can terrorists can come to most
fortified areas of the capital with weapons and ammunition?

[Nuralhaq Olumi, interior minister, captioned, speaking at a news conference] We
had some reports that an attack would take place in the city, but we did not
have exact information as to where and at what time it would take place.

[Correspondent] The US embassy condemned the attack and said that the Taleban do
not pay attention to civilian life. The Afghan interior ministry said nobody was
hurt in the attack, but the US embassy hoped for speedy recovery for the wounded
of the incident. The Taleban group in a statement claimed responsibility for the
attack. The guesthouse was attacked by suicide bombers in 2009 as well. Foreign
and domestic offices, including the Tajikistan embassy, are located in this area
as well. There are several police checkpoints in streets leading to this area.
Now, the question is this, how could attackers come to this area with weapons
such as rocket launchers?

[Naqibollah, Kabul resident, captioned, talking to camera in Pashto] The police
cannot ensure security in the capital.

[Mohammad Jaan, Kabul resident, captioned, talking to camera] It is obvious that
the police should be blamed for these incidents. How the people feel safe when
attacks take place next to their houses.

[Correspondent] What is going on with the Kabul police chief amid rising
insecurity in the capital? 1TV has learnt that the deputy head of operations in
the Kabul police headquarters who is responsible to foil terrorist attacks in
the capital has not come to his office for three weeks now. It is reported that
he has had a dispute with the Kabul police chief over an armoured vehicle and
that he has not come to the office. However, Qader Gol Zadran dismissed the
report.

[Qader Gol Zadran, deputy head of operations of Kabul police, captioned,
speaking over the phone] This is a false report. We have launched several
operations.

[Correspondent] The Kabul police headquarters refrained from talking to us in
this regard. This comes at a time when Kabul city has been facing high security
threats and the people have been complaining about police failure to protect
them.

[Video shows the site of the attack, correspondent reporting from the site of
the attack, eyewitnesses, local people talking to camera, the interior minister
speaking at a news conference, a police official speaking over the phone, a view
of Kabul city]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 27 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 27, 2015 Wednesday 7:10 AM GMT

Officials fear string of plane copycat attacks after EIGHT in-flight terror
scares

BYLINE: Scott Campbell

LENGTH: 499 words


OFFICIALS fear that a series of terror scares on flights across the US this week
could spark a string of copycat attacks, Daily Star Online can reveal.

Authorities are anticipating a wave of calls from sick pranksters after eight
flights across the US were targeted with bomb threats in the last two days.

They are concerned that callers are not only wasting time of intelligence
services at a time when the risk of a terror attack is severely heightened - but
that they are also putting passengers' lives at risk.

Speaking exclusively to Daily Star Online, a senior airport source said: "It's
not helping every time there is something like today and the end result was
nothing. We're extremely concerned.

"These copycats love to see what's on television or in the news and they just
pick up the phones."

The source revealed that airports have had "a lot" of copycat calls in recent
months.

She continued: "We're all kind of thinking that it's causing this copycat stuff.

"It's not only a waste of time, but there's a public safety issue involved
here."

In the US, making fake bomb threats is an offence that could land callers in
jail.

Making false alarms is a first-degree misdemeanour in many states, while
inducing panic can be a felony.

Earlier today, a passenger plane was surrounded by police at Los Angeles Airport
after an anonymous bomb threat was phoned in while the jet was on-route from
Taipei in Taiwan.

Passengers were evacuated and had their luggage screened after the aircraft
landed at about 3.30pm local time.

It was then swept by bomb-sniffing dogs at an isolated location.

Just hours later, airport officials reportedly received another phoned bomb
threat against a Cathay Pacific flight.

It is thought that the threat came from overseas, and while it was not
considered credible the plane was inspected as a precaution.

A Los Angeles Airport spokesman was unaware of the threat and the FBI could not
be reached for comment when contacted by Daily Star Online.

The incidents come just one day after six flights across the US faced chemical
weapons threats - including planes flying in from London and Birmingham.

The problems started when US military jets escorted an Air France flight into
New York City after someone claimed a chemical weapon was aboard the aircraft.

"Out of an abundance of caution, Air France flight number 22 was escorted to
John F. Kennedy airport by US Air Force fighter jets following a phone threat,"
the FBI said in a statement.

"There were no incidents or hazards reported on board the flight by either the
passengers or its crew. The plane has been cleared."

Authorities said the threats did not appear to be credible. They described
searches done on the jets as a precaution.

Related articles Man 'kidnapped by gang of gun-toting women who raped him then
stole his sperm' Pilot forced to eject as military jet skids off runway and
lands in WATER Passenger plane gets mid-air BOMB THREAT - day after mass
chemical terror scare

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

No verdict in 'ginger Aryan terror attack trial'

BYLINE: Press Association

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


The jury in the trial of an alleged extremist accused of plotting a cyanide
attack ''for the Aryan people'' has been discharged after it failed to reach a
verdict.

Mark Colborne, from Southampton, was on trial at the Old Bailey accused of
preparing terrorist acts before his arrest on June 3 last year.

The court heard that the 37-year-old made notes in his diary of a plan to shoot
the Prince of Wales with a high-powered sniper rifle, and bought the ingredients
for cyanide over the internet.

The defendant, who the court heard likened himself to Norwegian terrorist Anders
Breivik, also stockpiled dust masks, metal filter funnels, plastic syringes and
latex gloves and acquired manuals entitled Assorted Nasties, Silent Death and
The Poor Man's James Bond, jurors were told.

His half-brother contacted police after he uncovered chemicals and papers
detailing Colborne's racial hatred stashed in his bedroom at the family home.

But in his defence, Colborne denied that he was actually planning an atrocity
and dismissed extracts from his diary as just ''angry rants'' made while he was
off medication for depression.

The jury retired last Thursday but after three days deliberating could not agree
on a verdict and was discharged.

The prosecution indicated that it would be seeking a retrial on a date to be
fixed before the Recorder of London.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 27, 2015 Wednesday 6:40 AM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: Officials fear string of copycat attacks after EIGHT in-flight terror
scares

BYLINE: Scott Campbell

LENGTH: 520 words


OFFICIALS fear that a series of terror scares on flights across the US this week
could spark a string of copycat attacks, Express.co.uk can reveal.

GETTY

A bomb threat caused disruption at Los Angeles Airport earlier today

Authorities are anticipating a wave of calls from sick pranksters after eight
flights across the US were targeted with bomb threats in the last two days.

They are concerned that callers are not only wasting time of intelligence
services at a time when the risk of a terror attack is severely heightened - but
that they are also putting passengers' lives at risk.

Speaking exclusively to Express.co.uk, a senior airport source said: "It's not
helping every time there is something like today and the end result was nothing.
We're extremely concerned.

"These copycats love to see what's on television or in the news and they just
pick up the phones."

The source revealed that airports have had "a lot" of copycat calls in recent
months.

She continued: "We're all kind of thinking that it's causing this copycat stuff.

"It's not only a waste of time, but there's a public safety issue involved
here."

In the US, making fake bomb threats is an offence that could land callers in
jail.

Making false alarms is a first-degree misdemeanour in many states, while
inducing panic can be a felony.

TWITTER

Police surrounded a plane at Los Angeles Airport earlier today after a threat
was phoned in

Earlier today, a passenger plane was surrounded by police at Los Angeles Airport
after an anonymous bomb threat was phoned in while the jet was on-route from
Taipei in Taiwan.

Passengers were evacuated and had their luggage screened after the aircraft
landed at about 3.30pm local time.

It was then swept by bomb-sniffing dogs at an isolated location.

Just hours later, airport officials reportedly received another phoned bomb
threat against a Cathay Pacific flight.

It is thought that the threat came from overseas, and while it was not
considered credible the plane was inspected as a precaution.

A Los Angeles Airport spokesman was unaware of the threat and the FBI could not
be reached for comment when contacted by Express.co.uk

The incidents come just one day after six flights across the US faced chemical
weapons threats - including planes flying in from London and Birmingham.

The problems started when US military jets escorted an Air France flight into
New York City after someone claimed a chemical weapon was aboard the aircraft.

"Out of an abundance of caution, Air France flight number 22 was escorted to
John F. Kennedy airport by US Air Force fighter jets following a phone threat,"
the FBI said in a statement.

"There were no incidents or hazards reported on board the flight by either the
passengers or its crew. The plane has been cleared."

Authorities said the threats did not appear to be credible. They described
searches done on the jets as a precaution.

Related articles Pilot forced to eject as military plane skids off runway and
lands in WATER Terror fears as Birmingham and London flights among six searched
amid chemical threats Passenger plane gets mid-air BOMB THREAT - day after mass
chemical terror scare

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Kenyan president's popularity plummets over terror attacks, poll indicates

LENGTH: 910 words


Text of report by Peter Leftie entitled "Terrorism blow to Uhuru popularity"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 28 May;
subheading as published

President Uhuru Kenyatta's popularity has dropped from 67 per cent last December
to 48 per cent last month, a new opinion poll has revealed.

The poll, conducted by Ipsos Ltd between 28 March and 7 April, shows that Deputy
President William Ruto's rating dropped sharply, from 63 per cent in December to
35 per cent last month.

By contrast, the approval rating for the three [opposition] Cord [Coalition for
Reforms and Democracy] leaders, Mr Raila Odinga, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka and Mr Moses
Wetang'ula, improved marginally over the same period.

Mr Odinga's popularity went up from 24 per cent last November to 29 per cent
last month. Mr Musyoka's popularity also rose from 16 per cent last November to
18 per cent last month while Mr Wetang'ula's improved from 15 to 18 per cent in
that period.

Perceptions about Mr Kenyatta seem to have been affected by the government's
generally poor response to terror attacks and general insecurity.

But the trend seems to be a public resentment against politicians, particularly
the opposition, with more respondents saying they have no confidence in leaders,
than those who said they had faith in them.

Mr Odinga yesterday dismissed the poll as unnecessary. According to him, the
pollster had focused on non-issues.

"We are still very far away from elections. In developed countries pollsters
would be measuring government performance. What they are doing right now is
unfair," he said.

He said the pollster should be advised to spend time on issues that benefit
Kenyans.

"They tell us the president's rating is high, that Raila Odinga's support has
dropped, that Kalonzo Musyoka doesn't have support, this is not useful to
Kenyans now," he said.

The poll was conducted over the period when Al-Shabab attacked the Garissa
University College and killed 148 people in the worst terrorist attack since the
Westgate massacre of 2013.

The attack raised serious questions about the government's response to the
threat posed by terrorism.

The poll also showed that compared with the grand coalition government, the
Jubilee administration's performance was less satisfactory.

Those interviewed said its performance on fighting corruption, encouraging
economic growth, reducing the cost of living, its human rights record and
tackling crime and terrorism was worse off compared to the grand coalition under
President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Odinga, whose tenure ended in March
2013.

Jubilee also had a worse rating on freedom to criticise the government, wildlife
protection, land issues, respect for the constitution and conservation of the
environment.

Education and health

It only bested the grand coalition on provision of education and health
services.

The pollsters interviewed a total of 1,964 Kenyans aged above 18 years and
spread across the country. Majority of those interviewed said they were
self-employed and had at least a secondary education. Most of them also said
they earned less than 10,000 shillings a month.

The latest ratings are the lowest Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto have registered. Last
October their popularity levels were at 71 and 62 per cent respectively. Mr
Kenyatta's popularity dropped marginally in December to 67 per cent while Mr
Ruto's rose to 63 per cent, only to drop to 35 per cent last month.

The poll also showed that Mr Odinga's popularity had fluctuated between 37 per
cent in November 2013 to 24 per cent last November, before rising to 29 per cent
last month.

Mr Musyoka's popularity had also fluctuated between 20 per cent in September
last year down to 16 per cent in November before rising to 18 per cent last
month.

Mr Wetang'ula, too, had also oscillated between 19 per cent in September last
year down to 15 per cent in November before rising to 18 per cent last month.

The poll showed that whereas 48 per cent of those sampled expressed "a lot" of
confidence in Mr Kenyatta's leadership, 11 per cent returned a no confidence
vote in his leadership.

Thirty-five per cent of those polled also expressed "a lot" of confidence in Mr
Ruto, against 22 per cent who returned a no confidence vote.

Of those who supported Mr Kenyatta, 68 per cent were Jubilee while 22 per cent
were Cord supporters.

Generally, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta recorded one of the highest levels of
support, with 55 per cent of the respondents expressing "a lot" of confidence in
her. Only eight per cent said they had no confidence in her. Mrs Kenyatta has
been involved in a campaign to reduce child and maternal deaths by giving free
mobile clinics to counties.

The opposition in general fared badly, with only 18 per cent of the respondents
expressing "a lot" of confidence in it, against 23 per cent who said they had no
confidence.

The poll, however, showed that only 19 per cent of Kenyans expressed confidence
in the Jubilee administration as opposed to 15 per cent who returned a no
confidence vote.

Whereas 29 per cent of those sampled expressed "a lot" of confidence in Mr
Odinga, 30 per cent said they lacked confidence in his leadership. Similarly, 18
per cent of those sampled expressed "a lot" of confidence in Mr Musyoka against
32 per cent who did not share that view. Mr Wetang'ula was also backed by 18 per
cent of those sampled while 31 per cent expressed no confidence in him.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 28 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Officers dealing with three terror-related attacks a week

BYLINE: DEBORAH MCALEESE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 280 words


POLICE are dealing with around three terrorist attacks every week, the body that
represents rankand-file officers has revealed. Over the past year there have
been 171 terrorist-related attacks, the Northern Ireland Police Federation said.

These attacks included 74 shooting incidents, 39 bombing incidents and 58
paramilitary-style attacks.

Federation chairman Mark Lindsay warned that terrorism "continues to demand
eternal vigilance".

"This level of terrorist-related activity tells us that vicious, murderous bands
of dissidents pose an everyday threat to our friends, colleagues and
communities," he said.

In recent months there have been several attempts by dissident republicans to
lure officers into areas where booby-trap bombs have been planted.

This month a bomb was left in north Belfast in a bid to kill officers, and in
February a mortar bomb on the outskirts of Londonderry was also an attempt to
murder police.

Mr Lindsay said attacks like these "could have had unthinkable consequences were
it not for a combination of professionalism and good fortune".

He said that with the assistance of An Garda Siochana there had been notable
success against terrorist gangs.

However, Mr Lindsay warned: "We have to remain vigilant as we continue with a
decade of centenaries, which are highly emotive and could potentially fuel an
upsurge in activity. Our ability to curtail and degrade terrorists and
dissidents cannot be eroded by 'balance sheet' politics. Every resource should
be devoted to the task, with no short cuts or skimping. Civic society wants to
live in peace, free from the oppression of paramilitaries of whatever hue. They
are misguided and a scourge on this society."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                              Mid Somerset Series

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Attack terror as woman is grabbed from behind

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 220  words


THE hunt is on for three attackers after a 54-year-old woman was attacked from
behind while walking through  Glastonbury.

She was kicked and punched and left with a suspected fractured eye socket.

The woman, who was alone,  was walking  along Magdalene Street, at around
10.30pm, heading towards the kebab shop. But as she crossed Heritage Court she
was suddenly grabbed from behind, pulled to the ground and beaten.

The woman believes two men and a woman were involved in the violent attack and
that one tried to steal her handbag.

It is thought the attackers  made off in a vehicle after the assault.

Police have since launched an appeal for witnesses to come forward or for any
information after the  attempted robbery.

The incident happened on Wednesday, April 22, but the victim has only just been
able to give police full details of the  incident.

PC Katie Moyse, of Avon and Somerset Police, said: "This attack has left the
woman with injuries to her face including a possibly fractured eye socket and
blurred vision.

"I would appeal to anyone who can help our investigation to get in touch."

Anyone with any information can report details online or by calling 101, quoting
the reference number 43021/15.

Alternatively, if you would like to remain anonymous, contact the independent
charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Iran condemns "terrorist attack" in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 29 May: Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham strongly condemned
the recent terrorist attack on the prayer worshippers in the city of Dammam,
Saudi Arabia.

"We stress the need for taking all measures to prevent such incidents and to
seriously confront all those who have targeted the regional security and
stability and intend to stir the religious differences," Afkham said on Friday
night.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in the parking lot of a Shi'i mosque in Saudi
Arabia's Eastern city of Dammam, killing four people.

The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) Takfiri terrorist group claimed
responsibility for the deadly attack, the second in the country's
Shi'i-populated East in just one week.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 2020 gmt 29 May
15

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 29, 2015 Friday 10:30 PM GMT

Terror attack groomer who tried to get teen to carry out Lee Rigby-style
attacked jailed

LENGTH: 589 words


A "CALLOUS and manipulative" teenage terrorist was jailed for eight years
yesterday after a court heard he tried to groom a teenager with learning
difficulties to carry out a Lee Rigby-style killing.

PA

Kazi Islam

Kazi Islam, now 19, tried to persuade 19-year-old Harry Thomas to buy the
ingredients for a pipe bomb and to attack one or more soldiers with a kitchen
knife or cleaver on his command.

The horrific slaying was to have been similar to that of Fusilier Rigby in 2013.

Branding Islam "callous and manipulative," at the Old Bailey, Judge Richard
Marks sentenced him to eight years in a young offenders' institution.

He said the offence was a "serious one which merited a sentence of some length."



The Judge said the defendant showed an interest in radical Islam and jihad and
had downloaded material relating to making explosive devices such as pipe bombs,
landmines, firework bombs, tennis ball bombs.

Judge Marks also read a selection of messages Islam had sent to other boys in
which he asked them to buy bomb making ingredients.

Thomas had Aspergers and ADHD, and was "vulnerable and isolated", the judge
said.

He said: "The jury clearly took the view your intention was to make and detonate
a bomb for terrorist purposes and the instruction killing a soldier should be
carried out."

Islam was just 17 when he started encouraging the older youth to start calling
himself Haroon and tried to radicalise him with stories of children murdered by
Western soldiers.

But Islam's schemes were unwittingly sabotaged by Thomas who failed to buy any
of the right ingredients for a bomb and let slip to "a few friends" what they
were up to.

Messages between the two boys were discovered when police raided his family home
in east London.

In November 2013, Islam had messaged Thomas: "Did u get the ingredients mate?"

Thomas replies that he got "some pipes", but during the course of the
conversation it appeared that he had obtained the wrong ones.

In December 2013, Thomas asked: "who're we gonna blow up" and Islam replied
"I'll tell you wen I see you ".

Islam raised the subject of the Woolwich attack on December 20 2013, asking
Thomas: "If the war doesn't stop there should be another killing. Get a meat
cleaver or a kitchen knife. Would you carry out another attack?'"

Thomas replied that he would kill a soldier because "they're scum."

Islam told him: 'Well done Harry, I'm glad you understand mate. I'm proud of
you."

At the time of his arrest, Islam, who failed to pass any GCSEs, was living with
his parents.

Islam denied engaging in the preparation of terrorist acts, saying he had only
talked to Thomas about getting the ingredients for a bomb as an "experiment" in
radicalisation after he met him on an IT course at Barking and Dagenham college
in October 2013.

At the time he was arrested, Islam, who failed to pass any GCSEs, was living
with his parents and working for Winning Moves based in Paddington, which sells
a range of popular family board games including Top Trumps, Monopoly, Cluedo,
Risk, Connect 4 and Pass The Pigs.

The practising Muslim said he first became interested in issues surrounding
Afghanistan and Iraq because he wanted to find out why Fusilier Rigby had been
attacked outside his Woolwich barracks in May 2013.

His lawyer Peter Lownds earlier described his client as something of a "bedroom
jihadist" whose plans had never got to the stage of specific discussion or a dry
run.

In personal mitigation, he said: "He comes from a very loving and supportive
family who are very worried and confused by these events."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                        May 29, 2015 Friday 6:17 PM GMT

Harrowing 999 call captures moments Billingham woman hid in terror from attacker
;
Scott Weedall, 40, was heard banging on the bathroom door as his panicking
victim whispered: 'Hurry up... please' to call handler

BYLINE: By Gareth Lightfoot

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


A harrowing 999 call captured the moments a terrified woman desperately begged
for help while hiding from her attacker.

A hushed courtroom heard part of the 12-minute recording in which the petrified
victim pleaded in panicked whispers: "Hurry up. Hurry up. Please please please."

She sought refuge in a bathroom as her raging assailant Scott Weedall pounded on
the door, armed with a baseball bat, bellowing: "Open the door."

She was so scared she could not remember where she was or who had just been
punching her.

A Teesside Crown Court judge said today it was one of the worst assault cases he
had ever had to deal with.

Weedall, 40, repaid the woman's kindness with violence after she took a taxi to
his home on South Avenue, Billingham in the early hours of February 25.

She was concerned for him after he posted a Facebook message saying he was going
to "end it".

She saw him swigging vodka from the bottle after he had drunk 26 cans of lager
and cider, the court was told.

After some "banter", he exposed himself to her but she resisted his advances.

She got into bed with him but turned him down again when he tried to kiss and
cuddle her.

He "exploded" and pushed her off the bed, trapping her between it and the wall,
said prosecutor David Crook.

He hit her, delivering powerful, forceful blows to her head and face as she
shouted: "Please stop."

She did not remember how she got away, but locked herself in the bathroom and
called 999.

She was so scared during the call it took her nine minutes to remember Weedall's
name.

She stalled Weedall as he banged on the door repeatedly shouting: "Open the door
now. Open the door."

Weedall bowed his head in the dock as he listened to the distressing call,
apparently for the first time.

The call handler tried to get more information and reassure her while tracing
her phone.

Weedall walked away from the bathroom door during the 999 call and had to be
restrained when police arrived.

Officers had to convince the woman to open the door. She suffered a black eye, a
cut lip, bruising and swelling to her face and head.

She later said in a statement: "This incident really shook me up.

"I'm so scared of what could have happened if Scott had got into the bathroom.

"It was like he had a split personality. He just flipped. He was so aggressive
and is a big man. He's almost twice the size of me.

"I've suffered violence in the past so this has brought it all back.

"I went to Simon's in good faith to help him. I didn't have to but I did. That's
what kind of person I am."

Weedall admitted assault causing actual bodily harm. He had one old conviction
for assault.

Peter Wishlade, defending, said: "He is utterly and totally ashamed of his
totally reprehensible and undoubtedly dangerous behaviour.

"He's not a persistent offender by any means. He's not an assaulter of women in
normal circumstances."

He said Weedall still had little memory of the events.

He told how Weedall successfully tackled his alcohol problem and stopped
drinking, but hit the bottle again when his wife had an affair and left with the
children.

Weedall, who had character references, stayed sober since the assault because of
his "shock, horror and amazement at what he had done".

Judge Howard Crowson told Weedall: "A caring woman was trying to help you in a
time of crisis.

"You attacked her having got her inside the house.

"You attacker her when she was vulnerable, when she was defenceless.

"You continued to try to attack her when she was locked in the bathroom,
terrified. You were armed by this time with a baseball bat."

He jailed Weedall for 21 months.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Jailed: 'Reign of terror' teenagers who attacked victim with dog chain

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 754 words


THUGS Ashley Quelch and River Moroney have been jailed after they attacked a man
who shouted at them when he thought he saw them trying to rob some younger boys.

Quelch, of Crosswood Road, Park South and Moroney, who gave the court an address
in Bath, burst into the Chris Plumb's home and set about him with a dog chain
earlier this year.

Now, after ruling the 18-year-olds, who each have a history of violent crime,
pose a significant risk of serious harm in future a judge has imposed extended
sentences.

That means they will only be released from their four year 28-week jail terms
when the parole board thinks it is safe.

They also cannot apply for be freed until they have served two thirds of the
sentence and they will then have an extra three years added on to their licence.

Hannah Squire, prosecuting, told Swindon Crown Court they launched the violent,
drunken attack in broad daylight.

At 4pm on Thursday, April 9, Mr Plumb was at his partner's home in Stubsmead and
the defendants were in the street. They had stopped two younger lads and were
going through their pockets when he told them stop.

They went to his front door and started kicking at it, and when he told them to
go away they punched and kicked him.

They also shouted: 'I'm going to rape your missus,' and 'We'll be back later...'
before the victim got up and went in, locking the door behind him.

About three minutes later they kicked the door off its hinges and threatened
him, one repeating: 'We're going to rape your baby mother,' Moroney handed
Quelch a dog chain saying 'use that on him.'

Mr Plumb managed to grab a children's scooter to deflect the blows and suffered
minor injuries.

As the attack was taking place his partner and her two children were screaming
in terror as they looked on.

Miss Squire said when a neighbour shouted she had called the police they
stopped, but still hung about telling officers they were acting in self-defence.

She said "Mr Plumb feared neighbours would be too scared to make statements for
fear of reprisals. He was wrong about two: they did come forward and make
statements."

She said the incident in Eldene came two days after they had issued threats
while kicking at another door in a row over a bike.

Quelch and Moroney each admitted aggravated burglary and threatening behaviour.

The court heard both men had been involved numerous violent incidents in the
past.

Moroney, who two years ago was part of the gang who robbed some younger kids in
Wroughton on Halloween, was on a conditional discharge for possessing a knife.

Quelch, who has a previous aggravated burglary on his record, was on a suspended
sentence for assaulting his girlfriend at the time of the incident.

Rob Ross, for Moroney, said his client had a terrible upbringing and at one
stage was living a 'feral' existence and was now sorry for what he had done.

Gareth James, for Quelch, said he showed remorse and was back with the
girlfriend who he had assaulted and she is now pregnant.

Jailing them Judge Tim Mousley QC said: "So far as the aggravated burglary is
concerned Chris Plumb was just doing what any law abiding person would do.

"He shouted to you two to stop what appeared to be an attempt to rob or to steal
from two teenage boys that you were picking on, and that was what gave rise to
the extreme reaction and totally unreasonable reaction that resulted in him
being injured in the way he was by you two.

"Your reaction to being rebuked in that way, if that is the right phrase, was to
go to his home intent on assaulting him seriously.

"That perhaps is an indication of how you thought you could treat other people
and react to other people who dared to interfere with what you were doing.

"I can't overlook that fact that it appears the two of you have a reputation in
the area. You commit violent crime in the area. Hanging out with others drinking
and smoking.

"There is evidence people in the area fear violence from you and fear
repercussions from you."

After the hearing, Detective Constable Mike Armishaw, of Wiltshire Police, said:
"The evidence gathered with the assistance of the local community was no doubt
the reason why these two teenagers pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity.

"I am pleased with the sentence given out today - this was a disgraceful act of
violence in broad daylight.

"Both offenders were intent on causing serious harm to the victim in front of
his partner and two young children, who, had he not been able to defend himself
during the attack, would have undoubtedly suffered more serious injuries than he
did."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 30, 2015 Saturday

Afghan media criticized for "exaggerating" terror attacks

LENGTH: 489 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV

[Presenter] A number of experts have condemned the media for exaggerating
attacks by enemies of the people of Afghanistan, particularly suicide attacks
which take innocent lives, saying it amounts to serving enemy interests and
indirect cooperation with terrorists.

Gholam Nabi Shaban is reporting the details.

[Correspondent] Publishing reports and information or serving the enemy's
interests!

Recently, by magnifying the enemy's suicide attacks in the country, some media
outlets have indirectly supported terrorists' inhumane acts.

[Unnamed representative of people in parliament, captioned] The media play a
fundamental role for stability and instability of a country. I ask all the
media, particularly the esteemed minister of information and culture, to
seriously advise the media, because they really contribute to instability of the
country. For instance, if security is relatively bad somewhere, they blow it up
it to such an extent that it seems everything is in chaos, which creates fear
and concerns people.

[Unnamed representative of people in parliament, captioned] Blasts, suicide
attacks and some terror incidents happen in all countries, but national and
private media in any country do not show them in a way that would serve enemy's
interests.

[Correspondent] The experts have said that the main responsibility of the media
is to protect independence and stability, to strengthen national spirit and to
promote religious culture in a society.

[Unnamed Senator] Unfortunately, suicide and terrorist attacks happen not just
in Afghanistan but in most world countries, including our neighbouring
countries, like Pakistan. However, unfortunately, the style of reporting in
Afghanistan is different. Everyone prepares a report according to their own
taste in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, nobody respects the principles of
journalism in Afghanistan.

[Unnamed female expert] It is correct that we agree with democracy and that
people need proper reporting, but one should not act towards increasing people's
concerns and fears.

[Correspondent] The director of the Afghan Media Watch has said that
exaggerating news reports on terrorism is against journalistic principles.

[Sediqollah Tawhidi, director of Media Watch, captioned] We believe that the
media outlets outside the government should report facts. They should report and
provide information, but they should avoid magnifying terrorist incidents.
Reporting on terror events should be done in a way that would not increase
concerns among people in society.

[Correspondent] The experts believe that some media outlets' having no access to
proper funding and lack of serious monitoring of programmes broadcast by
different media outlets by the relevant bodies are major factors behind the
media's waywardness and that the media have forgotten their responsibility.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530gmt 29 May 15

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 30, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack groomer gets eight years

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 115 words


A TEENAGE terrorist was locked up for eight years yesterday after a court heard
he tried to groom a youth with learning difficulties to carry out a Lee
Rigby-style killing.

Kazi Islam, now 19, of Newham, east London, tried to persuade 19-year-old Harry
Thomas to buy the ingredients for a pipe bomb and attack one or more soldiers
with a kitchen knife or cleaver.

The horrific killing was to have been similar to that of Fusilier Rigby outside
London's Woolwich Barracks two years ago.

Branding Islam "callous and manipulative" at the Old Bailey, Judge Richard Marks
sentenced him to eight years in a young offenders' institution.

Islam had denied engaging in the preparation of terrorist acts.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Manipulative'... Kazi Islam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Prison for terror lad in 'Rigby' attack bid

BYLINE: TOM MORGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 127 words


A TEENAGE wannabe terrorist was yesterday sentenced to eight years' jail for
grooming a young man with learning difficulties to carry out Lee Rigby-style
killings.

Kazi Islam, 19, encouraged Harry Thomas, also 19, to buy ingredients for a pipe
bomb and attack soldiers with a kitchen knife or meat cleaver.

The defendant, who will serve his term in a young offender institution, claimed
he only talked about terrorist acts as an "experiment" in radicalisation. But
judge Richard Marks QC told Islam, of Newham, East London, at the Old Bailey
that his behaviour was "as callous as it was manipulative".

The scheme was foiled when Mr Thomas, who suffers from Asperger's and ADHD,
failed to buy the right ingredients for a bomb and let slip to pals what they
were up to.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Callous' ... Kazi Islam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 270 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2015 Monday

Sudan condemns terror attack on mosque in Saudi Arabia's Damam city

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Sudanese government newspaper Sudan Vision website
on 30 May

[Unattributed report: "Sudan Condemns Terrorist Attack Targeting Mosque in Damam
City"]

Sudan has expressed condemnation and denounced the terrorist explosion yesterday
targeting Anoud mosque in Damam city located in east of Saudi Arabia, killing a
number of citizens.

The official spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Ali
Al-Sadiq affirmed in a statement Sudan's objection to the destabilisation of the
security of Saudi Arabia.

He said such criminal acts will not stop Saudi Arabia from going ahead in its
progress, calling for solidarity with righteousness and supporting those
suffering injustice.

Al-Sadiq affirmed Sudan's stand on the side of Saudi Arabia and supporting it in
all the measures it takes to maintain its security and stability.

Source: Sudan Vision website, Khartoum, in English 30 May 15

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 1, 2015 Monday 3:21 PM GMT

Pope Francis compares Mediterranean migrant crisis to abortion;
'Terrorism, war, violence are attacks against life'

BYLINE: Tom Brooks-Pollock

SECTION: PEOPLE

LENGTH: 241 words


Pope Francis has said that leaving migrants travelling on boats to die in the
Mediterranean is similar to the "scourge" of abortion.

The pontiff made the controversial comparison - between what he called the
"scourge of abortion" and "leaving out brothers to die in the Sicilian Channel"
- at a meeting of Catholic scientists at the Vatican.

Other "scourges" classed by Pope Francis as "an attack against life" including
euthanasia - as well as malnutrition, terrorism, war and violence.

The Catholic News Agency reported that Pope Francis was addressing a meeting of
the Italian Associazione Scienza & Vita (Science and Life Association) when he
made the comments.

Migrants mingle with holidaymakers in KosHe said: "The scourge of abortion is an
attack against life. Leaving our brothers on boats to die in the Sicilian
channel is an attack against life. "Death in the workplace, because the minimum
safety conditions are not followed, is an attack against life. Death from
malnutrition is an attack against life. "Terrorism, war, violence; but also
euthanasia are attacks against life."The Pope made remarks hours after 750
migrants were rescued off the coast of Sicily. Around 1,800 people have died
trying to cross the Mediterranean since the turn of the year.

READ MORE: 'IF EUROPE THINKS BOMBING BOATS WILL STOP SMUGGLING, IT WILL NOT'POPE
DECLARES EVOLUTION AND BIG BANG REALLIBYA 'WILL REPEL ANY MILITARY ACTION FROM
EU' TO STOP PEOPLE SMUGGLERS

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 270 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 1, 2015 Monday 11:16 AM GMT

Head of CIA warns that US is at risk of lone wolf terror attack after NSA powers
to monitor all phone calls expired - as Isis 'watch carefully' for security gaps



BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1696 words



     ·    Legislation allowing mass collection of phone records expired Sunday
     ·    Patriot Act also enabled wire taps and warrants issued without
          evidence
     ·    Senate tried to pass reform bill but was frustrated by Rand Paul
          (R-KY)
     ·    Paul claimed victory, but admitted replacement law is likely to be
          passed
     ·    Head of CIA now warns terrorists are 'watching developments carefully'
          and says ordinary Americans at risk because of political grandstanding




The head of the CIA has warned that Americans are now at risk after the Senate
was unable to extend laws giving authorities special powers to fight terrorists.

Politicians in the upper house were unable to come to an agreement to extend key
parts of the Patriot Act - that legalise controversial methods of surveillance
by the National Security Agency (NSA) - which expired on Sunday.

Attempts were frustrated by Presidential candidate Rand Paul, who has taken a
firm stance against the extension of powers allowing the mass collection of
phone records, wire taps and warrants without evidence.

But the Head of the CIA John Brennan claims ordinary Americans, who expect the
NSA to do their jobs, have been put at risk by 'political grandstanding and
crusading for ideological causes' that fueled the debate.

Speaking on CBS show Face The Nation, he warned that the US - and Europe - is
now in danger from technologically 'sophisticated' terrorists who are watching
developments carefully and 'looking for the seams to operate' within.

He claimed that the authorities do not abuse the powers, extended in 2011 to
help fight lone wolf terror suspects not connected to a specific group, and that
without them, it's difficult for the NSA to protect America.

Mr Brennan said: 'I think terrorist elements have watched very carefully what
has happened here in the United States, whether or not it's disclosures of
classified information or whether it's changes in the law and policies. They are
looking for the seams to operate within.

'And this is something that we can't afford to do right now, because if you look
at the horrific terrorist attacks and violence that is being perpetrated around
the globe, we need to keep our country safe. And our oceans are not keeping us
safe the way they did a century ago.'

The Patriot Act was passed in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 terror attacks. Now
that the provisions have expired, government agents will need to subpoena phone
companies for the records.

The White House previously justified collecting the records because of the
Patriot Act's Section 215, which expired on Sunday.

Two other provisions, added in 2011, also expired with it. The first is a
'roving wiretap' provision which allows government agencies to keep tracking
suspects as they switch devices.

The second is a 'lone wolf' clause which allows warrants to be granted without
any evidence linking a suspect to a foreign power or terrorist group.

Political struggles over the NSA and its data collection have become a national
issue since whistleblower Edward Snowden revealed the extent of government
programs in 2013.

The senate's efforts to pass a replacement bill were frustrated by Kentucky's
junior senator Rand Paul, who has spoken at length against the NSA's activities,
which he has excoriated as illegal and unconstitutional.

WHAT DID THE PATRIOT ACT DO?

The USA Patriot Act is an acronym for the Strengthening America by Providing
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, signed by
George W Bush in 2001 after the 9/11 attack.

It allowed authorities to:


     ·    Detain immigrants indefinitely
     ·    Search homes and businesses without the owner's consent or knowledge
     ·    Search phone, email and financial records without a court order
     ·    Access a wider range of business records, including library and
          financial records


Powers were expanded in 2011 by Barrack OBama's administration, introducing
additional powers:


     ·    The 'roving wiretap' gives the government the authority to tap a
          suspect's line as he hops from one device to another. It does so by
          enabling spies to apply for a warrant without identifying the target
     ·    The 'lone wolf' provision allows spies to get a warrant to monitor
          someone electronically without having to prove that they are part of a
          wider known terrorist group


Paul, a Republican who is running for president, came up against members of his
own party, as well as the Obama administration.

With his presidential campaign waning, he has been accused of irresponsible
political opportunism by opponents, by fighting a bill on ideological grounds
that may put ordinary people at risk.

He was criticized by the White House Sunday night, which called the Patriot Act
expiration an 'irresponsible lapse'.

While Brennan didn't mention Paul by name, he said on Face The Nation:
'Unfortunately I think there is a little too much political grandstanding and
crusading for ideological causes that have really fuelled the debate on this
issue.

He added: 'These are authorities that have been used by the government to make
sure that we're able to safeguard Americans. And the sad irony is that most
Americans expect the government to protect them. And so although there's a lot
of debate that goes on, on the Congress and the Hill on this issue, I think,
when you go out to Boise or Tampa or Louisville, Americans are expecting their
law enforcement and homeland security and intelligence professionals to do their
work. And these authorities are important.'

Paul argued 'there must be another way' but even he agrees that the lapse in
these powers are likely to be temporary as politicians work on the USA Freedom
Act, which is expected to pass within the next week.

Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called a rare Sunday session
to try to pass the replacement law, but was unable to push it through in time.

And although the replacement is set to pass this week, Paul said the expiration
was 'a victory no matter how you look at it'.

In a statement, he said: 'It might be short lived, but I hope that it provides a
road for a robust debate, which will strengthen our intelligence community,
while also respecting our Constitution.

WHAT IS THE SENATE'S NEXT MOVE?

The Patriot Act is supposed to be replaced by the USA Freedom Act, an acronym
for Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ending Eavesdropping,
Dragnet-collection and Online Monitoring Act. It is expected to pass next week
and will:


     ·    Rein in powers for the mass collection of data, requiring agencies
          instead to apply for information on a specific entity, such as a
          person, account or device
     ·    Require intelligence agencies to be more transparent about what they
          collect, allowing technology companies to be more open about what they
          share
     ·    EXTEND powers offered in the lone wold and roving wire tap provisions


It was first proposed in 2013 but is expected to pass this week

He added: 'The expiration of the NSA's sweeping, all-encompassing and
ineffectual powers will not relinquish functions necessary for protecting
national security. The expiration will instead do what we should have done all
along - rely on the Constitution for these powers.'

According to a top lawmaker, as of 8pm Sunday no NSA employee could access their
enormous phone records database, which holds metadata on millions of phone
conversations handed over by telecoms companies like Verizon and AT&T.

Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Richard Burr said on Sunday: 'There is no
way to get any type of agreement tonight -- either an extension or passage of a
bill. So at 8pm tonight, NSA employees can not query the database'.

In a statement issued Sunday night, Obama's press secretary Josh Earnest, urged
action to pass the USA Freedom Act as quickly as possible.

He said: 'The Senate took an important - if late - step forward tonight. We call
on the Senate to ensure this irresponsible lapse in authorities is as
short-lived as possible.

'On a matter as critical as our national security, individual Senators must put
aside their partisan motivations and act swiftly. The American people deserve
nothing less.'

Some lawmakers have said the lapse raises alarming questions about how US
authorities can keep the homeland safe with a diminished security toolbox.

'I think it's very very unfortunate that we're in this position,' said Senator
Mike Lee, a conservative Republican who supports the reform bill.

'We've known this date was coming for four years. Four years. And I think it's
inexcusable that we adjourned' for a weeklong break last week without resolving
the issue.

Lee, too, conceded that the reform bill would most likely pass in the coming
week.

With the clock ticking, CIA chief John Brennan warned Sunday that allowing vital
surveillance programs to lapse could increase terror threats, and argued that
the phone metadata dragnet has not abused civil liberties and only serves to
safeguard citizens.

'This is something that we can't afford to do right now,' Brennan said of
allowing the counterterrorism provisions to expire.

'Because if you look at the horrific terrorist attacks and violence being
perpetrated around the globe, we need to keep our country safe, and our oceans
are not keeping us safe the way they did century ago,' he said on CBS talk show
Face the Nation.

Brennan added that online threats from groups like Isis would continue to grow
over the next five to ten years.

He said: 'Isis has been very sophisticated and adept at using the Internet to
propagate its message and reach out to individuals. We see what is happening as
far as thousands upon thousands of individuals, including many thousands from
the West, that have traveled into Syria and Iraq. And a number of these
individuals are traveling back.

'And what we see, they're also using the Internet as a way to incite and
encourage individuals to carry out acts of violence.

'So as the director of FBI says, you know, this use of these websites and their
Internet capabilities is something of great concern. So yes, I think ISIS is a
threat not just in the Middle East and South Asia and African regions but also
to Europe as well as to the United States.'

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001-1270
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:36:41

