



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:56:18
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday

Online jihadist proposes terrorist attack on Spain's second city

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper La Vanguardia website on 9 September

[Report by Isabel Ramos Rioja: "Jihadist Forum Proposes Carrying Uut Terrorist
Attack on Barcelona on 24 September"]

Suggestion: Carrying out a terrorist attack on Barcelona's Villa Olimpica subway
station on 24 September. Why this subway station and that day? On an online
jihadist forum, an activist nicknamed Amin Al-Qa'idah answered: "Above that
subway station, there is the city's largest zoo, which will be packed with
visitors on that day." However, he did not explain why the zoo would be packed
on 24 September. Every Barcelonan knows why: The La Merce festival [held in
honour of Barcelona's patron, the Virgin of Mercy] is held in Barcelona on 24
September.

The idea of carrying out a terrorist attack in Barcelona appeared on an online
forum last night. The forum used to be administered by Faical Erradi, who was
arrested in Poble Nou de Benitatxell (Alicante [southeastern province]) on 27
August for moderating the Ansar al-Mujahidin online forums.

Last night, anti-terrorism sources told La Vanguardia that these kinds of
messages, which they see as wishful thinking rather than genuine threats, are
usually posted on other websites, which they monitor closely to verify their
threat level.

In any case, the views expressed on the forum showed anger over the arrest of
Erradi. That is why the already known threats against Spain were reiterated.

After uploading pictures of Spanish nuclear power stations as possible targets
for an attack, as well as some memorable slogans, such as "Terrorism is coming
for you, Spain," Amin Al-Qa'idah posed a question to his colleagues: "What do
you think about the city of Barcelona?" He answered this himself: "It is a
beautiful and seductive city. May God give the Muslims this city as easy booty."
According to the activist, an attack on Barcelona's transportation system,
especially the "Villa Olimpica" subway station, may succeed.

On a subway map, Amin Al-Qa'idah pinpointed the location of the subway station,
but failed to find the exact location of the closest hospital, which he placed
in Bellvitge. Amin Al-Qa'idah concluded by expressing this desire: "May God let
the lions of Al-Qa'idah succeed in their attack."

Source: La Vanguardia website, Barcelona, in Spanish 9 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Jet passengers' terror at v iolent attacks by 'gangster '

BYLINE: By David Scott

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 406  words


HOLIDAYMAKERS watched in horror as a man was pinned down after assaulting
another passenger and a member of the air crew on an easyJet flight.

Colin Coats had been segregated at the rear of the plane after punching the
passenger in the face on a flight from Glasgow to Alicante.

When he learned police would board the aircraft on its arrival, he leaned
forward and whispered into a steward's face that if police came on board, he'd
kill him.

Minutes later, as officers entered the cabin, Coats, 40, kicked the steward
George Barron's legs and clawed at his face and neck.

As police pinned him down, he turned to a female passenger, Rosaleen O'Donnell,
39, told her she was a "specky bitch" and said he'd burn her house down, Paisley
Sheriff Court heard.

Ms O'Donnell said: "He said he knew gangsters, would find out where I lived and
would burn me and members of my family too.

He was angry and out of control. I was scared."

Steward Darren Donaldson intervened after the initial incident and saw the other
passenger with a lump on his face the size of an egg.

Coats' girlfriend, Angela, told him angrily: "You shouldn't have done that. He
was only speaking to me." Mr Donaldson said that Coats had been moved to the
rear of the plane for others' safety.

"He told me he had worked for Air Traffic Control, " he said, "and should have
known better.

"He seemed very angry. He was breathing deeply and shaking. He apologised then
started a tirade of abuse towards other passengers. It was extremely violent.

"He said to one he would 'throw acid your face' and said 'I'm Colin Coats. I'm a
gangster, Do you know who I am?'" At Paisley Sheriff Court, Coats, 40, of
Glasgow, denied conducting himself in a disorderly manner, uttering threats of
violence and committing a breach of the peace by placing others in a state of
fear and alarm, and assaulting George Barron.

He told the court he had no recollection of the flight and his first memory was
of waking up in his Spanish villa one or two days later and being told of media
reports. "It put me in a state of shock and disbelief, " he said.

Witness Amjed Khaliq, 42, said that, on the day of the flight, he and Coats had
been in a bar in Glasgow's west end with a group who were indulging in "high
jinks". He said Coats had been passed a glass of cola, which may have been
spiked with Acid.

Sheriff Neil Douglas described the claim as "incredible" and convicted Coats,
deferring sentence until October 5.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colin Coats kicked air steward

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Jet passengers' terror at violent attacks by 'gangster'

BYLINE: David Scott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 407 words


HOLIDAYMAKERS watched in horror as a man was pinned down after assaulting
another passenger and a member of the air crew on an easyJet flight.

Colin Coats had been segregated at the rear of the plane after punching the
passenger in the face on a flight from Glasgow to Alicante.

When he learned police would board the aircraft on its arrival, he leaned
forward and whispered into a steward's face that if police came on board, he'd
kill him.

Minutes later, as officers entered the cabin, Coats, 40, kicked the steward
George Barron's legs and clawed at his face and neck.

Gangsters

As police pinned him down, he turned to a female passenger, Rosaleen O'Donnell,
39, told her she was a "specky bitch" and said he'd burn her house down, Paisley
Sheriff Court heard.

Ms O'Donnell said: "He said he knew gangsters, would find out where I lived and
would burn me and members of my family too. He was angry and out of control. I
was scared."

Steward Darren Donaldson intervened after the initial incident and saw the other
passenger with a lump on his face the size of an egg.

Coats' girlfriend, Angela, told him angrily: "You shouldn't have done that. He
was only speaking to me." Mr Donaldson said that Coats had been moved to the
rear of the plane for others' safety. "He told me he had worked for Air Traffic
Control," he said, "and should have known better.

"He seemed very angry. He was breathing deeply and shaking. He apologised then
started a tirade of abuse towards other passengers. It was extremely violent.

"He said to one he would 'throw acid your face' and said 'I'm Colin Coats. I'm a
gangster, Do you know who I am?'"

At Paisley Sheriff Court, Coats, 40, of Glasgow, denied conducting himself in a
disorderly manner, uttering threats of violence and committing a breach of the
peace by placing others in a state of fear and alarm, and assaulting George
Barron.

He told the court he had no recollection of the flight and his first memory was
of waking up in his Spanish villa one or two days later and being told of media
reports. "It put me in a state of shock and disbelief," he said.

Witness Amjed Khaliq, 42, said that, on the day of the flight, he and Coats had
been in a bar in Glasgow's west end with a group who were indulging in "high
jinks". He said Coats had been passed a glass of cola, which may have been
spiked with Acid.

Sheriff Neil Douglas described the claim as "incredible" and convicted Coats,
deferring sentence until October 5.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colin Coats kicked air steward

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday

Qur'an burning would increase risk of terror attacks - Interpol

BYLINE: Matthew Weaverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 690 words

ABSTRACT

Police agency warns of 'strong likelihood' of violent attacks if burning goes
ahead, as US pastor says he could cancel event if he is contacted by Barack
Obama

FULL TEXT

Interpol, the international police agency, has warned of an increased risk of
terror attacks if the planned burning of the Qur'an by extremist US pastor Terry
Jones takes place on Saturday.

"If the burning goes ahead as planned there is a strong likelihood that violent
attacks on innocent people would follow," Interpol, acting partly on a request
from Pakistan, said in a statement.

The warning came as Jones, a pentecostal preacher from Gainseville, Florida,
hinted he might be prepared to call off the burning - planned to mark the
anniversary of the 9/11 attacks - if he was contacted directly by Barack Obama,
the state department or the Pentagon.

"That would cause us to definitely think it over," Jones told USA Today. "That's
what we're doing now. I don't think a call from them is something we would
ignore." But he said that as things stood he was "not convinced that backing
down is the right thing".

The White House confirmed it was discussing whether to contact Jones - whose
church, The Dove World Outreach Centre, has a congregation of about 50 - to ask
him to call off his plans. Pentagon spokesman Geoffrey Morrell said: "That
possibility is currently under discussion within the administration. I don't
believe they've come to any resolution yet."

Barack Obama earlier joined mounting worldwide condemnation of the plan, saying
the event would be a "recruitment bonanza for al-Qaida".

The US president told ABC News: "If he's listening, I hope he understands that
what he's proposing to do is completely contrary to our values as Americans,"
Obama said.

Obama said the event was a stunt that would boost support for terrorism. "This
could increase the recruitment of individuals who would be willing to blow
themselves up in American cities or European cities," Obama said.

The president repeated a warning by General David Petraeus, the commander of US
and Nato forces in Afghanistan, that the burning would endanger US troops.

"And as a very practical matter I just want him [Jones] to understand that this
stunt could greatly endanger our young men and women who are in uniform," Obama
said.

David Cameron's spokesman said earlier that the prime minister strongly opposed
any attempt to offend members of a religious group.

Religious leaders of all faiths have warned against the event, with statements
of protest coming from both the Vatican and the Archbishop of Canterbury.

This week protests took place in the Afghanistan capital of Kabul where effigies
of Jones were burned alongside the American flag.

Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the banned Islamist organisation Islam4UK,
told Reuters he was calling on radical Muslim groups around the world to burn
American flags outside US embassies in retaliation.

Today about 200 lawyers and civilians marched and burned a US flag in the
central Pakistani city of Multan, demanding that Washington prevent the book
burning.

The foreign ministries of Pakistan and Bahrain issued some of the first official
denunciations in the Muslim world, with the latter calling it a "shameful act
which is incompatible with the principles of tolerance and co-existence".

The president of Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, has written
to Obama asking him to stop the bonfire. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono told Obama
that images of the Qur'an in flames could "threaten world peace", according to
his special adviser Heru Lelono.

India's home office has asked its country's media to exercise restraint in
reporting on the planned burning.

The rightwing US presidential hopeful Sarah Palin urged Jones and his supporters
to reconsider. Writing on her Facebook page she said: "People have a
constitutional right to burn a Qur'an if they want to but doing so is
insensitive and an unnecessary provocation - much like building a mosque at
Ground Zero."

In a statement on his faith foundation website, Britain's former prime minister
Tony Blair, said: "Rather than burn the Qur'an I would encourage people to read
it".

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 10, 2010 Friday

AU, regional body condemn terrorist attacks on peacekeepers in Somalia

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 10 September: Special representatives of the United Nation and
African Union and IGAD [Inter-Governmental Authority for Development]
facilitator for Somalia peace and national reconciliation have jointly condemned
the terrorist attack on AMISOM [African Union Mission in Somalia] troops in
Mogadishu, AU told ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] in a statement on Thursday [9
September].

The special representatives of the secretary-general, Dr Augustine P Mahiga, and
the chairperson of the African Union Commission for Somalia, Ambassador Boubacar
Diarra, and the IGAD facilitator for Somalia peace and national reconciliation,
Hon Kipruto arap Kirwa, have jointly condemned the deadly terrorist attack on
AMISOM troops.

It said the terrorist act resulted in the unfortunate and tragic loss of two
AMISOM soldiers, three others seriously wounded and the death of several
civilians.

The three envoys condemn, in the strongest terms possible, this "heinous act of
terrorism" occurring as it did on the eve of the holy feast of Id al-Fitr - a
solemn day of peace, compassion and mercy.

The three envoys express their heartfelt condolences to the people, the
government of Uganda and the members of the bereaved families.

The envoys also undertook a joint working visit to Somalia on 9 September for
consultations with President Shaykh Sharif Ahmed, it said.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 10 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           September 10, 2010 Friday

â€˜Attack by terroristsâ€[TM] staged to teach staff

LENGTH: 326 words


Dozens of Cambridge security staff have been taught how to face a potential
terrorist attack on the city.

Guards from the Grand Arcade, Hyline Security and Bridgegate Security were
among 50 'pupils' put through a simulated terrorist attack.
The counter-terrorism event, Project Argus, was held at The Guildhall.


The annual free training session was organised by Cambac (Cambridge Business
Against Crime) with the police and Cambridgeshire County Council.
Tony Harold, Cambac chairman and general manager of Hyline Security, said: "It
is essential that Hyline Security, and other security companies working within
Cambridge, fully support Cambac in such initiatives as Project Argus.
"As a company operating extensively within the city centre, it is important that
our staff are able to react professionally to any terrorist attack to help to
prevent further injuries, and to offer a calming effect in what would be
difficult and uncertain circumstances."
Shamsu Choudhury, emergency management officer for the county council, was
delighted at the turnout.
He said: "It was really good to see businesses, emergency services and the local
authorities working together.
"The event was focused on a simulated terrorist attack. However, the key
messages of prevention, incident management and business continuity apply to all
sorts of situations."
Det Sgt Karen Boxall warned that the threat of a terror attack was a reality and
urged companies to get involved in training staff in how to cope with it.
She said: "The threat from terrorism is unfortunately both real and current."
The police were keen to help make crowded places safer and more resilient to
terrorist attack, she said.
"Through Project Argus we can all work together for the benefit of the people of
Cambridgeshire, as well as our visitors, enhancing their experiences of our
shopping centres and the night time economy," she added.
Businesses can email  to find out more.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2010 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 10, 2010 Friday

KORAN BURNING 'WILL SPARK TERROR ATTACKS'

LENGTH: 457 words


OBAMA AND INTERPOL WARNING OVER PASTOR'S STUNT

BY SAM GREENHILL

TERROR attacks are 'likely' if a U.S. pastor goes ahead with his threat to burn
the Koran on the anniversary of 9/11, Interpol warned last night.

The international police agency said there was 'a strong likelihood that violent
attacks on innocent people would follow'.

Its alert to governments worldwide came amid widespread condemnation of Pastor
Terry Jones's plans, which have enraged many Muslims.

President Barack Obama warned: 'This is a recruitment bonanza for Al Qaeda. You
could have serious violence in places like Pakistan and Afghanistan.

'This could increase the recruitment of individuals who'd be willing to blow
themselves up in American cities or European cities.'

Pastor Jones and members of his Dove Outreach Church in Gainesville, Florida,
intend to throw 200 copies of the Islamic holy book on a bonfire tomorrow, the
ninth anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks on New York and Washington.

Mr Jones, 58, who now carries a gun after receiving more than 100 death threats,
said he wanted to send a message to radical Muslims that they could not impose
their beliefs on the U.S. So far he has refused to call off his International
Burn-A-Koran Day.

Demonstrations are already under way in Muslim countries against the stunt.

Protesters burned a U.S. flag in the Pakistani city of Multan. Their banners
included one that read: 'If Koran is burned, it would be beginning of
destruction of America.'

In Mahmud Raqi, capital of the Afghan province of Kapisa, hundreds of angry
protesters burned an American flag and chanted 'Death to the Christians'. In
Britain, Muslim extremist Anjem Choudary threatened to burn the American flag
outside the U.S. embassy in London tomorrow.

'Muslim blood is boiling with anger,' he said. 'I will not be surprised if there
are more terror attacks because of this.'

The secretary general of the Muslim Council of Britain, Farooq Murad, said:
'This proposed burning would be highly offensive.

'We call on those planning this malicious and mischievous act to refrain from
deliberate provocation.' At Westminster, David Cameron's spokesman said: 'We
would strongly oppose any attempt to offend any member of any religious or
ethnic group. We are committed to religious tolerance. We would not condone the
burning of any book.'

Foreign Secretary William Hague condemned the Koran-burning ceremony as 'selfish
and provocative in the extreme'. He said it 'would be offensive not just to
Muslims but to all supporters of religious freedom and tolerance worldwide'.

U.S. officials have said they are powerless to stop the Koran burning, as Mr
Jones is protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which
allows freedom of speech.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           September 10, 2010 Friday

Bollard plan to stop terror attack

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 31 words


ONE of the main shopping streets in Newcastle city centre  is to have bollards
installed at every entrance as part of measures to stop a terror attack. The
move will cost £450,000. Page 15

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 11, 2010
                                  Main Edition

It's hard to believe but it really is nine years since 9/11. And I bet you can
remember exactly what you were doing the moment you heard that two airplanes had
slammed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center as America suffered the
worst terrorist attack in its history.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words


It's hard to believe but it really is nine years since 9/11. And I bet you can
remember exactly what you were doing the moment you heard that two airplanes had
slammed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center as America suffered the
worst terrorist attack in its history.

Even now the footage of those burning buildings -- and their rapid collapse --
still shocks. That afternoon, I was working in these newspaper offices where we
swiftly brought out a late edition of the Belfast Telegraph, its front page
capturing the full horror of the unfolding events.

At work and at home, everyone was horrified and frightened by the scenes that
had unfolded on TV.

How much worse, though, for those who had loved ones caught up in the attacks.
Perhaps most poignant of all were the last messages of those who knew they were
about to die and who phoned husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, sisters and
brothers to tell them how much they loved them and to say goodbye.

This week we talk to Deena Burnett, who was one of those who received just such
a call from her husband, Tom.

She'd seen the two planes hit the Twin Towers on the television news and was
desperately worried about her husband, who was catching a plane that morning.

Ironically, when she first heard his voice on the phone, she assumed he'd called
to tell her he was safe. Tragically, he'd called to tell her he was on a
hijacked plane, Flight 93 ...

Elsewhere, we talk to the gorgeous Sharon Corr about life with her Belfast
barrister husband Gavin Bonnar, being a mum and her plans to get back with her
sisters and brother to make more music.

Plus, we've got some great ideas for creating a nursery fit for the daughter of
a prime minister, delicious salads to keep you munching healthily through autumn
and a rundown on the jobs you need to do in your garden now.

See you next week,

Gail Walker

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UN


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday

Biblical story of jonah has a lesson for pastor;
Well, i wonder if he will have done it. As I write this, an American
fundamentalist Christian minster from Florida was planning to burn publicly
copies of the Koran today in protest at the terrorist attacks on September 11
2001 - by Muslim fundamentalists.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 542 words


Perhaps it would be better to say: by misguided fanatics who claimed to be
acting in the name of Islam, the Muslim religion.  The truth is that the true
spirit of Islam would repudiate such acts of terrorism.  In the same way, the
true spirit of Christianity would repudiate the public burning of the Koran.

That's not to say that the two religions are the same as each other.  They are
not, though there are of course points of contact.  Nor is it to pretend that
there have not been plenty of times when people of both religions have made the
mistake of using violent force to establish or secure their own understanding of
the faith they belong to.  Undeniably, there have.

However, we should never make the mistake of confusing the wrong actions of some
of its adherents with the faith itself.  That, it seems to me, is what Pastor
Jones is doing.  I hope and pray he will have been persuaded not to go ahead.

The events of September 11,  2001, remain engraved on my mind.  I was in America
that week, and like many people have a story to tell.  It's too long to tell in
one week, but I will serialise it later in the autumn over a six-week period
when I will be away.  Meanwhile, I was reminded this week of a biblical story
which I think has something to say to Pastor Jones.

You probably remember there was one about a chap called Jonah who was rescued
from the stormy seas he had been thrown into by being swallowed into the belly
of a whale  - literal translation: a big fish - and then spewed out onto dry
land.  But do you remember the rest of the story?

As we have it, it is written by an unknown Jew sometime in the 5th, or possibly
4th, century BC.  But the story he tells has probably been around in legendary
form for several centuries before that.  Jonah was a real man, a prophet
advising a king in Northern Israel in the 9th century BC.

But in the story Jonah receives a call to go to a foreign city  - Nineveh,
capital of the big empire of the time -  and pronounce God's judgement and the
great calamity in store for them.

He is terrified and runs off to sea - as far away as he can get.  A storm blows
up and Jonah confesses to the non-Jewish sailors that he might be responsible.
Throw me over, he says, and the storm will stop.  The sailors try to avoid doing
so but eventually give up.  They are brought to faith as a result of all this.
Meanwhile Jonah is saved by the fish.

Then comes a second call to Nineveh.  This time he goes and to his amazement his
preaching works.  Everyone in Nineveh, including the king, responds and repents,
turning their lives around.  As a result the calamity is averted. But still
Jonah is not happy.  He now feels rather a fool and complains that God's
compassion makes him look stupid.  He goes into the desert to sulk, where God
works on him through a shady bush which comes up and then disappears: 'Should I
not be concerned for the people of Nineveh and its animals?' God asks.

We aren't told how Jonah responds in the end, but it is very clear what the
author is saying: there is no limit to the breadth of God's saving love, to his
desire to reach out in compassion to all.  We, like Jonah, are called to be part
of the process of extending that love and compassion.

Jonathan MeyrickDean of Exeter

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2010 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

My sister's 9/11 death will haunt me forever;
FAMILY RELIVES TERROR ATTACK NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: NICK BRAMHILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 279 words


A HEARTBROKEN Irish man who lost his sister and niece in the 9/11 terror attacks
has told how he'll NEVER come to terms with their murder.

Tragic Ruth McCourt, 45, and her daughter Juliana, four, were on the second
United Airlines flight al-Qaeda villains crashed into New York's Twin Towers.

And today, on the nightmare's ninth anniversary, Juliana's distraught Cork
brother Mark, below, reveals his on-going torment since 2001.

Mark, 49, said: "I've moved on from it as best I can, but the scars still remain
and they always will.

"I think about what happened every single day. At times what happened doesn't
seem real. It almost seems like something out of a James Bond movie.

"I've tried to understand the motivation of those who carried out the attacks
and have travelled to the Middle East to try and get an understanding of the
radical fundamentalism."

Brave Mark added: "I'm very concerned 9/11 could happen again. Compassion and
diplomacy are the only way we're going to bridge the gap with extremists. I've
also learnt forgiveness, and often wonder if the terrorists really understood
the full repercussions of what they were doing.

"I have had to move on, because there is no point in being angry."

"The world has changed. The countless deaths of American and British soldiers
over in Iraq and now Afghanistan, most of whom are under 20, are as a
consequence of 9/11."

Mark and his family will gather to remember Ruth and Juliana, and other victims,
in Cork today.

It's believed one-sixth of the 2,973 people killed in the attacks were of Irish
heritage.

A website irishtribute.com has been set up for friends and family to pay tribute
to the victims.

irishsun@the-sun.ie

Scars

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aboard doomed jet ... Ruth & Juliana

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 13, 2010 Monday

Slovene daily says world is "divided" after terror attacks in USA

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report in English by Slovene news agency STA

Maribor, 13 September (STA) - Daily Vecer sees a divided world nine years after
the terror attacks in the US. It suggests in its commentary on Monday that the
US has played its part in this with its actions in the aftermath of the attacks.

Nothing is as it was before September 11, writes Vecer. After the attacks the US
was perhaps as united as never before, but President George W. Bush and the
hawks in his administration abused this.

"The US, the cradle of democracy, legally tortured prisoners, abducted suspects
around the world, privatised the war effort with the help of security and
logistics corporations, and loosened the foundations of the global economy."

"The wars were started easily, but can be finished only seemingly - the one in
Iraq has apparently ended twice already...This Devil's work has not even eluded
President Obama, who is sending more troops to Afghanistan."

Vecer believes that Florida pastor Terry Jones's acting on his threat to burn
the Koran would only have additionally fuelled this clash of civilisations.

And although Rev Jones changed his mind, he will come away with more followers
of his Church, the paper writes under "Clash of Civilisations".

Source: STA news agency, Ljubljana, in English 0400 gmt 13 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 13, 2010 Monday
                                   2 Edition

* Terror attack man  stable

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 68 words


A TEENAGER is today stable in hospital after being attacked by a man in
Renfrewshire at the weekend.

The 18-year-old was assaulted by a hooded thug as he walked in Huntersfield
Road, Johnstone, at around 9pm on Friday.

The attacker made off towards Cartside and the victim was taken to Royal
Alexandra Hospital, Paisley suffering from cuts.

Police say anyone with information on the attack should call 01505 404 000.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 13, 2010 Monday

Imam speaks out on Qur'an burning row: Act 'could have provoked fresh terrorist
attacks' Far-right UK group joins anti-Islam protests

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Washington Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 675 words


The New York imam at the centre of plans to build an Islamic centre near Ground
Zero said yesterday that disaster had been narrowly averted over the planned
burning of copies of the Qur'an by the Florida pastor Terry Jones.

In his first comments since the row escalated into a national and international
crisis, the imam, Feisal Abdul Rauf, said the act could have provoked fresh
terrorist attacks against the US.

After a series of conflicting and confusing statements over the previous 48
hours, Jones finally confirmed on Saturday that he was not going ahead with his
plan, "not today, not ever".

But some damage had been done by the pastor's threats and thousands of
protesters took to the streets in Afghanistan yesterday for the third day in a
row. Three were shot, with one seriously injured, amid threats to storm US
military bases.

While media attention focused on Jones, desecration of Qur'ans took place
elsewhere across the US on the ninth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. Copies of
the Muslim holy book were torn up in New York and Washington, and burned in
Tennessee and Kansas.

Little publicity was given to these events, with the main US networks deciding
not to cover such stunts. Most said in advance that they would not have
broadcast Jones's book burning event.

With anti-Muslim sentiment reaching levels not witnessed in the US at any point
since the 2001 al-Qaida attacks on New York and Washington, rival rallies were
held in New York for and against Rauf's proposed cultural centre.

In an interview with the ABC network, Rauf said Jones's planned book burning
"would have strengthened the radicals, it would have enhanced the possibility of
terrorist acts against America and American interests".

He said he intended to go ahead with the cultural centre, and expressed concern
about a rise in anti-Muslim feeling across the US. "How else would you describe
the fact that mosques around the country are now being attacked?"

The imam did not meet Jones, who flew to New York from Florida on Friday. The
pastor, in an apparent face-saving exercise, claimed he had abandoned his
burning ceremony because Rauf had agreed to meet him and to move the location of
his centre. Rauf denied the claims.

Members of the far-right English Defence League flew to New York to join the
rally against the centre. The group's leader, who goes by the pseudonym Tommy
Robinson, was refused entry at JFK airport and put on a plane back to the UK,
according to the anti-Islam website Gates of Vienna. But others in the group
were allowed in.

Members of the EDL and other European rightwing organisations, including Geert
Wilders, the Dutch leader of the Party for Freedom, were pictured at the
demonstration holding banners with the slogans No Mosque at Ground Zero, The
more Islam, the Less Freedom, No Sharia, and No Surrender.

One of the US organisers of the campaign against the centre, Pamela Geller, has
in the past praised the EDL and said she has been in contact with the group.

Barack Obama, at a 9/11 ceremony at the Pentagon on Saturday, repeated his calls
for restraint, saying: "As Americans, we are not, and never will be, at war with
Islam." He said the US would stay true to its traditions as a diverse and
tolerant country.

But his pleas appeared to go unheeded at isolated ceremonies across the country.
Websites in Tennessee showed pictures of two pastors, Bob Old and Danny Allen,
burning copies of the Qur'an in Springfield. The Daily Beast website reported
that in Topeka, Kansas, members of the Westboro church burned a Qur'an in front
of the media.

A Christian group tore pages from the Qur'an outside the White House on
Saturday. In New York an unidentified man tore pages from the Qur'an and set
them alight outside the planned Islamic centre.

Captions:

Anna Sereno, from Brooklyn borough, holds a picture of her son Arturo, who was
killed in the 9/11 attacks aged 29, at a commemoration ceremony held near Ground
Zero in New York on Saturday Photograph: Jason DeCrow/AP

Members of the English Defence League demonstrate in New York at the weekend

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday

Terror group may have planned attack in west Indian city - official

LENGTH: 481 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 13 September: Three security establishments in Nashik city including
Indian Army's Deolali camp were recceed by arrested Lashkar-i-Toiba [LT] terror
suspect Shaikh Lalbaba Mohammed Hussain for a Lahore Police Academy-type attack,
Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) said on Monday [13 September].

A terror strike probably similar to that of the 2009 Lahore Police Academy
attack was planned on the three establishments as per instructions from LT
handlers in Pakistan, a senior ATS official said.

"The Deolali camp, Maharashtra Police Academy and Police Commissionerate in
Nashik were on the hit list of Shaikh alias Bilal," the official said.

"There may have been a plan of an attack similar to that of terror strike on
Lahore Police Academy," the official said on condition of anonymity.

On 30 May last year, heavily armed terrorists stormed a police academy near
Lahore in Pakistan, killing at least 27 policemen in an eight-hour siege that
ended with four terrorists being shot dead and six captured alive by security
forces.

Bilal, arrested for allegedly preparing for terror strikes in the western Indian
state of Maharashtra last week, was staying in Nashik with two fake identities
and conducted recce of these three locations since May as per the instructions
of his aide Mirza Himayat Baig, held in connection with Pune blast, the official
said.

"Baig was directed to select these targets by LT handlers in Pakistan," the
official said.

The fake identities assumed by 27-year-old Bilal were Amin Manik Parekh and
Sutar Iqbal. He was arrested under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act from
Nashik.

During his stay in Nashik, Bilal was working as CNC lathe machine operator in
Satpur industrial area and used to work in shifts, the official said.

"Whenever Bilal had leisure time, he visited these places a number of times to
get details as what is the area of the targets, how many exit and entry points
they have etc," the official said.

They were in the 'early stage' of the terror plan, the official said, adding
photographs of these targets were also seized from them.

According to the ATS, Bilal had visited LT camps in Pakistan between January
2008 and early 2010 where he received advanced training in use of sophisticated
weapons and making bombs. He had sneaked into India thrice during the period
through the Bangladesh and Nepal borders.

In January, Baig along with Mohsin Choudhary and Mohammad Ahmed Zarar Siddibappa
alias Yasin, alleged Indian Mujahideen (IM) members, had held a conspiracy
meeting at his

Gold internet cafe in Udgir in Latur district to select their targets and German
bakery was chosen as it was frequented by foreigners.

Baig was also in contact with Zaibuddin Ansari, an alleged LT member wanted in
2006 Aurangabad arms haul case, the ATS said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1726gmt 13 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Suspect in August terrorist attack found dead in Russia's south

LENGTH: 158 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Stavropol, 15 September: The body of Aleksandr Kim, who was the main suspect in
the August terrorist act in Pyatigorsk, has been found in the Predgornyy
District of Stavropol Territory, a source in the law-enforcement agencies told
Interfax-South today.

"The body of 42-year-old Aleksandr Kim was found in Stavropol's Predgornyy
District with gunshot wounds," the source said.

The source said that Kim was the owner of the VAZ-2106 [Zhiguli model 6] car
which exploded outside a cafe in Pyatigorsk on 17 August.

Interfax has not yet received official confirmation of this information.

It was reported that on 17 August an explosion occurred near a cafe on Ulitsa
Kirova [street[ in Pyatigorsk, as a result of which more than 30 people were
injured. An explosive device left in a VAZ-2106 car went off. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0828 gmt 15 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Front: Real IRA says it will target UK bankers: Exclusive Republican terror
group vows to resume mainland attacks

BYLINE: Henry McDonald Ireland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words


Banks and bankers are now potential targets for the Real IRA, leaders of the
dissident republican terror group have warned in an exclusive interview with the
Guardian. Despite having only 100 activists they also said that targets in
England remained a high priority.

In an attempt to tap into the intense hostility towards the banks on both sides
of the Irish border they branded bankers as "criminals" and said: "We have a
track record of attacking high-profile economic targets and financial
institutions such as the City of London. The role of bankers and the
institutions they serve in financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system
has not gone unnoticed.

"Let's not forget that the bankers are the next-door neighbours of the
politicians. Most people can see the picture: the bankers grease the
politicians' palms, the politicians bail out the bankers with public funds, the
bankers pay themselves fat bonuses and loan the money back to the public with
interest. It's essentially a crime spree that benefits a social elite at the
expense of many millions of victims."

But security sources in Northern Ireland say that the Real IRA lacks the
logistical resources of the Provisional IRA to prosecute a bombing campaign
similar to the ones that devastated the City of London in the early 1990s or the
Canary Wharf bomb in 1996. Although the Real IRA has access to explosives it has
yet to carry out large-scale bombings.

The terror group stressed in a series of written answers to the Guardian's
questions that future attacks would alternate between the "military, political
and economic targets". It is the first time the Real IRA has engaged in such
open

anti-capitalist rhetoric or focused on the role of the banking system.

The leaders also threatened to intensify the group's terror campaign on all
fronts.

"Realistically, it is important to acknowledge that we have regrouped and
reorganised and emerged from a turbulent period in republican history.

"We have already shown our capacity to launch attacks on the British military,
judicial, and policing infrastructure. As we rebuild, we are confident that we
will increase the volume and effectiveness of attacks," the organisation said.

One element in the Real IRA's recent activity has been a wave of so-called
"punishment" shootings and beatings of those they deem "antisocial elements" in
nationalist working class areas. In Derry alone the Real IRA and other aligned
groups have shot around two dozen men over the last 18 months.

The Real IRA's leadership was unapologetic over what its critics have described
as "rough justice". The group believes such attacks are popular and can garner
support in areas where the communities were previously alienated from the
police.

"These actions are taken as a last resort to protect the community. We are an
integral part of the community and the people in them are our eyes and ears. The
fact is that the British police force is rejected by republican communities and
people naturally turn to us for help.

"The vast majority of issues are resolved by negotiation, a small percentage
require more direct forms of intervention including punishment shootings and
expulsions," they said.

On the political front they dismissed Sinn Fein's claims that its electoral
strategy would ultimately yield a united Ireland despite the majority of
nationalists in Northern Ireland still voting for Sinn Fein and an overwhelming
majority backing the peace process.

The Real IRA insisted, however, that support for them was building and they had
turned away hundreds of young disaffected nationalists because they didn't have
the capacity to absorb so many members.

"From the point of view of republican communities, there is still a heavily
armed British police force that casually uses plastic baton rounds, CS gas and
Tasers, carry out house raids, stop and search operations and general
harassment.

"There's still a 5,000-strong British army garrison, a new MI5 HQ in Belfast,
and a British secretary of state. Republican communities are still subjected to
sectarian parades and the right to protest is being met with intimidation and
violence."

On the subject of recent reports of talks between dissident republicans and the
Dublin and London governments the Real IRA said: "There are no talks with either
the British government or the Free State Administration.

"The IRA is not unwilling to talk, in fact there needs to be talks . . .
however, talks need to deal with the root cause of the conflict, namely the
illegal British occupation of Ireland. We are mindful, though, that the history
of such approaches from the British has been characterised by a lack of
integrity, a lack of willingness to address the causes of conflict, and has been
motivated by a self-serving agenda." Northern Ireland's deputy first minister
and Sinn Fein MP, Martin McGuinness, also came in for strong criticism. The
former chief-of-staff of the IRA and key Sinn Fein negotiator recently claimed
that he had knowledge that dissidents were holding secret discussions with the
two governments.

"Martin McGuinness is a British Crown minister who has a vested interest in
causing mischief among republicans. His job is to administer the Queen of
England's writ in Ireland . . . However, if he has any evidence to back up his
claims, he should make it public," the Real IRA said.

Leader comment, page 32 >=

Captions:

The IRA bombed targets in the City during the 1990s. Now the Real IRA may use
the same tactic Photograph: Rex Features

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

TRASHED;
Terror gang attacks house

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


A RAMPAGING gang of thugs armed with baseball bats and golf clubs brought terror
to a Paisley street early yesterday.

The yobs caused thousands of pounds worth of damage as they targeted a house in
Ferguslie Park, leaving a trail of destruction in their wake. Every window on
the ground floor of the house was smashed and two cars which were parked nearby
were also vandalised. It's understood a woman in her 50s was in the
semi-detached home in Tannahill Terrace when the gang struck in the early hours
of yesterday. morning. Neighbours in the street refused to talk about the
incident and some claimed they had heard nothing.

However, a resident in a neighbouring street, who was too scared to be
identified, told the Paisley Daily Express: "I could hear screams while all this
was going on. "Whoever did this was determined to cause as much damage as
possible and they certainly left a real mess behind them. "It looks like they
were out to terrify someone and I imagine they succeeded in doing that." The
Express understands that a gang of seven young men were responsible for the
frightening attack. As well as smashing several windows of the house in
Tannahill Terrace, both panes of glass on the front door were also holed.

The gang then turned their attention to a silver Mercedes which was sitting in
the driveway and a black Vauxhall Corsa which was parked in the street. Every
window of the Corsa was smashed and glass littered the inside of the car and the
roadside. Even a headlamp was smashed. There were also several dents on the
bonnet as it was struck by baseball bats or golf clubs. Two side windows on the
Mercedes were smashed and there had been attempts to break the windscreen. A
wooden fence in the front garden of the house was also damaged in several
places. The woman who was inside the house at the time was not injured but was
left badly shaken by the ordeal.

Two weeks ago, police were called to Tannahill Terrace in the early hours of the
morning to stop fighting in the street involving rival gangs. Two men were
injured in that incident but it is not clear if it is linked to yesterday.'s
attack. Last night, detectives appealed for anyone who has information about
this latest incident to come forward. One officer said: "We need the public's
help. If anyone saw or heard what happened in Tannahill Terrace, they should let
us know. "Whatever information you have, ring Paisley Police Office on 0141 532
5900 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

TRASHED;
Terror gang attacks house

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 36 words


A RAMPAGING gang of thugs armed with baseball bats and golf clubs brought terror
to a Paisley street early yesterday.

The yobs caused thousands of pounds worth of damage as they targeted a house in
Ferguslie Park,

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 17, 2010 Friday

Turkey's president condemns "terrorist" attack; vows to take "necessary" steps

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Istanbul, 16 September: Turkish President Abdullah Gul condemned the terrorist
attack in southeastern part of the country on Thursday.

President Gul told reporters, "we are profoundly sorry about killing of nine
people in a terrorist attack in the southeastern province of Hakkari. Small
children are injured in the attack. This attack proved once again the brutality
and inhumanity of terror."

"I harshly condemn killing of civilians in acts of terror. Our state will never
leave its citizens alone against the terrorist organization. We will take all
necessary steps to eradicate the terrorist organization," he added.

Meanwhile, another condemnation came from France.

Bernard Valero, spokesman for French Foreign Ministry, strongly condemned the
bloody attack. He offered French people's condolences to those who lost their
beloved ones in the attack. Valero also extended France's support to Turkey in
its fight against terrorism.

Meanwhile, the death toll was corrected as nine. Earlier, it was reported that
ten people lost their lives in the attack.

The Governor's Office said in a statement that since one of victims had two
names and victims' bodies were smashed beyond recognition, there was a confusion
about death toll.

Nine people were killed and four others including a 3-year-old kid and a
15-month baby were injured when a land-mine went off in the province of Hakkari
while a minibus was passing earlier in the day.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1510 gmt 16 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terror attack risk is doubled;
Irish renegades and al-Qaeda are ready to strike, says M15 chief 100 Britons
training in camps run by al-Qaeda

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1026 words


BRITAIN is facing a wave of terrorist attacks on two fronts from a new
generation of al-Qaeda extremists and Irish Republican militants who could
strike on the mainland, the head of MI5 warns.

In his first public speech on the national security threat for three years,
Jonathan Evans will say today that his officers are engaged in an "intense
struggle" against Muslim radicals and Irish nationalists.

It is only "a matter of time" before Britain is the victim of an attack from
extremists based in Somalia, the director-general of the security service adds.

There has been a "persistent rise in terrorist activity and ambition" in
Northern Ireland over the past three years, says Mr Evans. Terrorists in Ulster
are using increasingly sophisticated weaponry to launch "reckless" attacks that
could kill civilians.

"While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent Republican groups have traditionally done," he says.

Mr Evans, who has briefed David Cameron and Nick Clegg on the threats, says
there remains "a serious risk of a lethal attack taking place".

"I see no reason to believe that the position will signifi-cantly improve in the
immediate future," he adds.

He uses his speech to appeal to the Government not to abandon control orders,
the measure under which terrorist suspects are electronically tagged and put
under house arrest. There are nine suspects who are subject to the orders.

The Liberal Democrats had promised to scrap the measure and it is now being
considered under a wider review of counter-terrorism legislation.

Whitehall sources have told The Daily Telegraph that control orders are likely
to be retained in some form.

Mr Evans says MI5 is "committed to prosecutions wherever possible", but adds:
"It is a sad fact that for all sorts of good reasons terrorist threats can still
exist which the criminal justice system cannot reach. The Government cannot
absolve itself of the responsibility to protect its citizens just because the
criminal law cannot, in the particular circumstances, serve the purpose."

Mr Evans tells the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City of
London that every day, hundreds of officers were fighting an "intense struggle"
to identify and investigate terrorists.

"The secret nature of this struggle makes it hard for those not directly
involved to understand some of the skirmishes," he adds. At any one time, MI5
had a "handful" of investigations that involved the "real possibility of a
terrorist attack being planned against the UK", he says. "Most turn out to be
the real thing."

The percentage of "priority" plots linked to al-Qaeda in the tribal areas of
Pakistan had dropped from 75 per cent two years ago to 50 per cent now. The
threat had increased from Somalia and Yemen.

Mr Evans says a "significant number" of British residents are training in camps
run by the al-Qaeda-linked group al- Shabaab. As many as 100 Britons of
Pakistani, Bangladeshi and West African backgrounds had travelled to Somalia.

The country "shows many of the characteristics that made Afghanistan so
dangerous as a seedbed for terrorism in the period before the fall of the
Taliban," he says. "I am concerned that it is only a matter of time before we
see terrorism on our streets inspired by those fighting alongside al- Shabaab."

Mr Evans says there has been a "surge in casework" related to Yemen and adds:
"There is a real risk that one of [preacher Anwar al-Awlaki's] adherents will
respond to his urging to violence and mount an attack in the UK."

In Northern Ireland, there were now thought to be about 600 hardline Republicans
involved in terrorist activity, around half the number during the peak of IRA
activity in the 1980s, sources said.

The director-general says there are "increasing signs of co-ordination and
co-operation between groups", resulting in 30 attacks or attempted attacks this
year. The terrorists were using a greater variety of techniques from shootings
to large vehicle bombs. They had improved their capability in the use of
explosives.

The vast majority of attacks had been directed at the security forces but Mr
Evans says the terrorists have been "reckless, often putting members of the
public at risk" with vague warnings of the type that resulted in the deaths of
29 civilians in Omagh in 1998.

MI5 is likely to face a budget cut of 10 per cent but sources said the agency
believed it could cope with that level.

Mr Evans says the idea that every attack is preventable is a "nonsensical way to
consider terrorist risk". "Risk can be managed and reduced but it cannot
realistically be abolished and if we delude ourselves that it can, we are
setting ourselves up for a nasty disappointment," he says.

Read Mr Evans's full speech at telegraph.co.uk/news

Lesson to be learnt from Ulster history

The security service has recently reinforced its presence in Northern Ireland
for the second time as it tries to cope with a network estimated at 600
dissidents.

Mr Evans, who worked on fighting Irish terrorism for MI5 in the 1980s and 1990s,
said that in the past few years "insufficient weight" had been given to studying
the pattern of history, in which hardliners had continued the "armed struggle"
whenever mainstream republicans had rejoined constitutional politics.

MI5 took over counterterrorism operations in Northern Ireland from the police in
2007, moving 400 officers to Belfast.

Growing threat in 'ungoverned areas'

As the threat from al-Qaeda's leadership - hemmed into the tribal areas of
Pakistan - has diminished, the threat has grown elsewhere.

MI5 is worried by the growth in so-called "ungoverned areas", particularly
Somalia and Yemen. Somalia is of greater concern because up to 100 Britons have
travelled to the country, where some have died fighting for the terrorist group
al-Shabaab. A student from west London blew himself up as a suicide bomber in
Somalia three years ago.

Al-Shabaab professes to global ambitions but its attacks have been mainly
limited to Somalia. It caused shock in Uganda in July by setting off bombs that
killed 74 people.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 17, 2010 Friday

How much are we really under threat from terror attacks?

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Norton-Taylor: The screaming headlines in today's papers show how hard
it is for the head of MI5 to make the case for its work

FULL TEXT

"Terror attack risk is doubled," shrieks the headline on the front page of the
Daily Telegraph. "Security services fighting terror on more fronts than ever,"
claims the Times on page three. He may not mind the headlines, he may even
welcome them, but it's not what Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, said.

The security and intelligence agencies make their case like any other lobby. But
they have a particular problem. We know what the armed forces and the police are
up to because they are either in full view of the public (the police) or
fighting and dying for Queen and country (British troops in Afghanistan). MI5
and MI6, however, are involved in intelligence-gathering, by definition a covert
activity.

Yet from time to time they want to make their case in public, and indeed they
should. The trouble is they do it so rarely that when they do, their comments
are taken out of all proportion. Hence today's headlines, quoted above.

Evans, who  the  (one of the City's newest livery companies), said the threat
from dissident republican groups in Northern Ireland was growing, something that
is manifestly obvious, and that there was a serious potential threat from UK
nationals returning from jihadist training and fighting in Somalia, something
the spooks have been warning about for some time.

Evans correctly warned that the assumption that terrorism was 100% preventable,
which he said had been imported from the US media, was "nonsensical". Yet he
also said that while his agency's capabilities had improved in recent years,
"there remains a serious risk of a lethal attack taking place". He added: "I see
no reason to believe that the position will significantly improve in the
immediate future."

Intelligence-gathering and countering terrorism is, crucially, a question of
judgment, nuance, and managing risk. The security and intelligence agencies are
unlikely to minimise the threat, publicly at any rate. Yet exaggerating it can
lead to cynicism and the proverbial danger of crying wolf.

There can be no doubt that Evans has briefed David Cameron and Nick Clegg. MI5
will not escape the cuts completely but should be able to cope with the 10% or
so the Treasury may demand. Judging by Evans' speech, the security service is
concerned more by the  of the mass of anti-terror legislation introduced under
13 years of Labour. "The government cannot absolve itself of the responsibility
to protect its citizens just because the criminal law cannot, in particular
circumstances, serve the purposes," he said, in an apparent reference to control
orders.

"The secret nature of this struggle [investigating people suspected of being
involved in terrorism] makes it hard for those not directly involved to
understand some of the skirmishes that come into the public domain," he
continued. This sounds like special pleading. If it is, the question is: is it,
unlike those headlines, justified?

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Terror of M8 kids as bus is attacked;
TARGETED BY THUGS

BYLINE: PAUL DRURY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 132 words


YOUNG kids screamed in terror as a bus full of pilgrims was attacked by thugs on
a motorway in the centre of Glasgow yesterday.

Dozens of adults and children were being ferried to Bellahouston Park on the M8
through Charing Cross when the rear window of their coach "exploded".

One nine-year-old girl was cut on the face by flying glass as the coach's entire
window blew in.

It is believed something was thrown from a bridge or a raised area of the
motorway.

One mum said: "Everyone was shaking and the kids were crying.

It is shocking that this should happen."

The pilgrims, from Our Lady of Lourdes Church in East Kilbride, were told to
stay on board until a replacement coach arrived, around 30 minutes later.

The attack came just hours before the Pope's motorcade passed along the stretch
of road.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convoy . . Pope on M8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MUSLIM PLOT TO KILL POPE;
Bogus street cleaners held Police swoop to foil a 'terror attack' on Pope

BYLINE: John Twomey; David Pilditch; Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 869 words


ISLAMIC terrorists disguised as street cleaners allegedly hatched an audacious
plot to blow up the Pope.

The threatened attack was foiled at the 11th hour after police raided a cleaning
depot in London as the suspects prepared to start their shift yesterday.

Last night six men - all believed to be North Africans aged between 26 and 50 -
were being questioned by detectives.

Five suspects were detained at the cleaning depot and the sixth was held at his
home yesterday afternoon.

Searches were being carried out at 10 addresses across the capital and police
seized computers, mobile phones and other items.

Pope Benedict XVI was said to have remained "totally calm" when he was informed
about the threat yesterday morning.

A £1.5million ring of steel has been put in place for the first official Papal
visit to Britain and security procedures were immediately reviewed but the
Pontiff's schedule continued as planned.

It is feared plotters with links to Al Qaeda planned "a double blow to the
infidel" by assassinating the head of the Roman Catholic church and slaughtering
hundreds of pilgrims and well-wishers.

The suspected plot was smashed after Scotland Yard officers swooped on the depot
in Marylebone, central London, at 5.45am after a tip-off just hours earlier.

A security source said last night: "We had to act and arrest them. We had
reasonable grounds to suspect they would carry out an attack.

"We could not take the risk that they would mount an attack on the Pope which
might lead to his death and the deaths of many others."

The suspects worked for Veolia Environmental Services, a contractor employing
650 staff to keep the streets of Westminster clean.

The depot was searched by officers from the Yard's Counter Terrorism Command. A
second business premises was also searched. Officers later carried out raids on
eight residential properties in north and east London, searching for  weapons,
bomb-making materials, maps and other suspicious items.

The five men detained are aged 26, 27, 36, 40 and 50. At least three are
believed to originate from Algeria while a fourth is thought to be a Tunisian
national. A sixth man, aged 29, was arrested at a house in north London.

The suspects were being detained last night at a central London police station
on suspicion  of the commission, preparation  or instigation of acts of
terrorism.

The depot where the men worked is less than a mile from Hyde Park where Pope
Benedict is due to hold a prayer vigil this evening. His wellpublicised route
takes him along The Mall past Buckingham Palace.

Up to 85,000 worshippers have been issued special "pilgrim's passes", with
ticket holders having to  arrive up to five hours before the Pope.

As street cleaners the men would have been able to move freely and
inconspicuously through the crowds.

An investigation is also under way to determine if the foreign nationals had
entered Britain legally and were entitled to work here.

Last night a Scotland Yard spokesman said: "As a result of the arrests policing
arrangements for the Papal visit were reviewed and we are satis- fied that our
policing plan remains appropriate. The itinerary has not changed and there is no
change to the threat level."

He added: "The initial searches have not uncovered any hazardous items."

Last night, Gian Paul, 31, owner of a restaurant near the cleaning depot, said:
"When I arrived this morning there were tons of police with dogs.

"The cops ran in and said they were from immigration. They made them all stand
up - the guy who told me said he felt like he was in a film.

Threat

"All the employees were made to put their hands on their heads. Then more police
came in and took some of the workers away.

"The man who told me about this didn't know the names of the people who were
arrested."

Dr Leith Penny, of Westminster City Council, said: "Security is of critical
importance and can never be taken for granted and so our congratulations must go
to the police authorities for their swift action."

The German-born Pontiff was alerted of the threat yesterday morning, the day
after his arrival in Britain for the historic four-day visit.

Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi said: "We are totally confi- dent in
the work of the police and Scotland Yard.

"They have already said that the information that they have collected
demonstrates there is no need to change anything on the programme of the Pope
and the security measures." Last night a Vatican source said: "Publicly the
incident is being played down but privately the arrests verge towards the
serious side and came as a result of intelligence work."

Senior police officers said there was no information ahead of the visit to
suggest any "specific group" wanted to attack the Pope.

A spokesman for the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales said: "We
have absolute confidence in the security operation to protect both the Pope and
the public.

"The Pope is enjoying a wonderful visit, warmly welcomed wherever he goes."

The alleged plot is believed to be the second planned assassination on the Pope
recently. In April, Moroccan students Mohamed Hlal, 26, and Ahmed Errahmouni,
22, were deported from Italy, strengthening fears that Al Qaeda were seeking
recruits there.

OPTION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dignitaries including Gordon Brown, Tony Blair and Lady Thatcher meet
the Pope at historic Westminster Hall
Police hunt for evidence at the depot
Flanked by security yesterday, the Pope crosses Lambeth Bridge after seeing the
Archbishop of Canterbury

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Terror police foil Pope attack plot;
Six held after suspects are arrested at gunpoint

BYLINE: Martin Williams

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 324 words


SIX men working as street cleaners have been arrested by police officers
investigating a suspected terrorist plot to attack Pope Benedict XVI during his
state visit to the UK.

Five of the suspects, understood to be of Algerian origin, were arrested at
gunpoint in London by officers from the Metropolitan Police s Counter Terrorism
Command shortly before 6am yesterday, after information emerged overnight that
the pontiff could be in danger.

The sixth man was arrested elsewhere in the UK capital almost eight hours later.

The force has not ruled out a connection to a plot to assassinate the pontiff
involving North African students in Italy earlier this year.

All six men were working for Veolia Environmental Services, a contractor that
employs 650 on-street staff to keep Westminster s streets clean, Westminster
City Council said.

As the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury held an evening prayer service in
Westminster Abbey, Scotland Yard confirmed a sixth man, aged 29, had been
arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 and was being questioned. He had been held
by officers at a residential property in north London shortly before 2pm.

The men were all taken to a central London police station to be questioned.

The first five men held   aged 26, 27, 36, 40 and 50   were arrested at Veolia s
Chiltern Street depot, when their shift was due to start, on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

Their homes in north and east London were scoured for evidence. Police were
standing guard outside the Marylebone rubbish depot where the cleaners worked,
which is less than a mile from Hyde Park, where the Pope is due to hold a prayer
vigil this evening.

The depot remained cordoned off for several hours as officers scoured the
premises. As street cleaners, the men would have been able to move
inconspicuously through crowds.

Sources said no weapons, bomb materials, maps, planning materials or other
suspicious

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Pope 'plot': six held;
Terror alert as pontiff makes strongest attack on secular society

BYLINE: David Brown ; Ruth Gledhill ; Adam Fresco

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 324 words


Police investigating an alleged plot to assassinate the Pope arrested six people
yesterday, less than 24 hours before a vigil by 100,000 Catholics in Central
London.

Five street cleaners were seized less than a mile from Hyde Park, where the
pontiff will lead prayers today. A sixth man was arrested in North London.

Details of the alleged plot emerged as the Pope laid out his strongest challenge
to secular society yet in an address to politicians and civic leaders at
Westminster.

"Some people even think that festivals such as Christmas should be discouraged,"
he said, "in the questionable belief that it might somehow offend those of other
religions or none." Attacking equality legislation, he said: "There are those
who argue... that Christians in public roles should be required at times to act
against their conscience." He spoke of "worrying signs of a failure to
appreciate not only the rights of believers to freedom of conscience and freedom
of religion but also the legitimate role of religion in the public square".

Scotland Yard ordered the raids at 5.45am after receiving a tip-off overnight
containing specific information about the suspects. Senior officers said that no
weapons, ammunition, maps, explosives or other "hazardous items" had been
discovered during initial searches. They said that the arrested men, some of
whom are from Algeria, were not known to the police or security services.

However, background checks led to the decision to arrest the cleaners
immediately at Westminster City Council's depot close to Baker Street. "It was
too much of a risk to let these men run," said a senior source. The cleaners,
aged 26, 27, 36, 40 and 50, were arrested on suspicion of the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

Armed police also raided eight homes in North and East London and another
business premises in Central London. The arrested men were being questioned at a
Central London police station.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Archbishop of Canterbury embraces the Pope in Westminster Abbey
yesterday. Benedict XVI warned that Christianity was being marginalised around
the world
RICHARD POHLE FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Pope 'plot': six held;
Terror alert as Benedict makes strongest attack on secular society

BYLINE: David Brown ; Ruth Gledhill ; Adam Fresco

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words


Police investigating an alleged plot to assassinate the Pope arrested six people
yesterday, less than 24 hours before a vigil by 100,000 Roman Catholics in
Central London.

Five street cleaners were seized within a mile of Hyde Park, where Benedict XVI
will lead prayers today. A sixth man was arrested later at his North London
home.

Details of the alleged plot emerged as the Pope laid out his strongest challenge
to secular society yet in an address to politicians and civic leaders at
Westminster. He said: "Some people even think that festivals such as Christmas
should be discouraged in the questionable belief that it might somehow offend
those of other religions or none." Attacking equality legislation in Britain, he
added: "There are those who argue - paradoxically with the intention of
eliminating discrimination - that Christians in public roles should be required
at times to act against their conscience."

The Pope spoke of "worrying signs of a failure to appreciate not only the rights
of believers to freedom of conscience and freedom of religion but also the
legitimate role of religion in the public square". Pleading with the assembled
parliamentarians, he said: "I would invite all of you therefore, within your
respective spheres of influence, to seek ways of promoting and encouraging
dialogue between faith and reason at every level of national life."

Scotland Yard ordered the raids at 5.45am after receiving a tip-off overnight
containing specific information about the suspects. Senior officers emphasised
that no weapons, ammunition, maps, explosives or other "hazardous items" had
been found during initial searches. They said that the arrested men, some of
whom are from Algeria, were not known to the police or security services.

But background checks led to the decision to arrest the cleaners immediately at
Westminster City Council's depot near Baker Street. They work for Veolia
Environment Services, a contract cleaning company. "It was too much of a risk to
let these men run," a senior source said. "We had to act". The cleaners, aged
26, 27, 36, 40 and 50, were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism. Armed police also raided eight homes in
North and East London and another business premises in Central London. The
arrested men were being questioned at a Central London police station.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Archbishop of Canterbury greets the Pope in Westminster Abbey
yesterday. Benedict XVI warned that Christianity was being marginalised around
the world
RICHARD POHLE FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 19, 2010 Sunday

Delhi police doubt role of terror group in tourist bus attack

LENGTH: 600 words


Text of report by Press Trust of India news agency

New Delhi, Sep 19 (PTI) In incidents apparently intended to cause terror ahead
of Commonwealth Games, two

unidentified motorcycle-borne attackers Sunday shot and injured two Taiwanese
nationals outside the Jama Masjid here

which was followed by a crude pressure cooker bomb blast in a car in the same
area.

Delhi Police appeared to be ruling out the role of any organized terror group
but intelligence experts said it could

be a handiwork of outlawed Indian Mujahideen, which was behind a series of
blasts in several cities, including Delhi and

Ahmedabad. The Indian Mujahideen claimed responsibility for theattack in an
e-mail sent to PTI and some other news

organizations and threatened terror strikes during the Games. [passage omitted]

Nearly two hours after the firing incident, a car went up in flames when a
"crudely-circuited" pressure cooker bomb

exploded about 50 metres away from the spot where the firing incident took
place.

"The car went up in flames due to a crudely-circuited pressure cooker bomb," a
senior police official said.

Investigators suspect the involvement of a "group of disgruntled youth or local
criminals" who wanted to create a

scare in the area. [passage omitted]

The e-mail sent by the Indian Mujahideen said, "in the name of Allah, the attack
is a tribute to Atif Amin and

Mohammed Sajid". Amin and Sajid were IM operatives killed by the police in the
Batla House encounter soon after the Delhi

serial blasts of September 2008.

"We are warning you. If you have the guts, then organize the Commonwealth
Games...We know that preparations

are on full swing. Be prepared...We are also making preparations...The
participants in the Games will be

responsible for the outcome," the e-mail said.

The modus operandi in the firing carries the signature of Indian Mujaheedin,
Home Ministry sources said.

Sources in security agencies said the incident could be an attempt to spread
scare ahead of the Games. They said

terror angle cannot be ruled out.

The Union Home Ministry is also closely monitoring the investigations into the
shooting incident and has sought a

report from the Delhi Police.

Asked if the security agencies have been able to find out the motive behind the
incident, senior Home Ministry

officials said it was too early to make an assessment and that the
investigations were underway.

Police said phone calls in the area are being scanned and armed personnel have
been deployed in the locality.

However, Delhi Police does not suspect the role of any organized terror group
behind the incidents but suspect the

involvement of disgruntled youths or a gang of local criminals.

The motive appears to be to scare people ahead of the Commonwealth Games, they
say, adding the attacks do not show

signs of the involvement of terrorist outfits like Indian Mujahideen.

The city police is also not giving much credence to the email sent to media
houses purportedly by outlawed Indian

Mujahideen as "its content and timing were not matching" with the incidents.

There were "no specific target or specific reasons" for the attacks and they do
not find any reason to believe

that an organized terror outfit was behind the incidents which left two
Taiwanese nationals injured, Delhi Police

spokesperson Rajan Bhagat said.

"The signatures of the attacks do not show that an organized terror organization
like Indian Mujahideen is

involved. If you see pressure cooker which was used to explode the car, it was
poorly circuited and crudely assembled," a

senior police official said. [passage omitted]

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1530 gmt 19 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 20, 2010 Monday

Tajik ministry says 23 servicemen killed in terror attack in east

LENGTH: 328 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Dushanbe, 20 September: Twenty three people, including several officers of the
Tajik Defence Ministry and National Guards, have been killed as result of a
terrorist attack on servicemen in Tajikistan's east, the head of the Tajik
Defence Ministry's press centre, Faridun Mahmadaliyev, has told Interfax.

"Service vehicles of the Tajik Defence Ministry were attacked by a terrorist
group at 1230 [local time - 0730 gmt] in Komarob gorge in Rasht District (185 km
east from Dushanbe). As a result, 23 servicemen, including several officers of
the Tajik Defence Ministry and National Guards, were killed," Mahmadaliyev said.

"This terror attack was committed by people related with former filed
commanders, Abdullo Rahimov (better known as Mullo Abdullo) and Alovuddin
Davlatov. These are hirelings from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Russia's Chechen
Republic, who are attempting to turn Tajikistan into an arena of international
wars, under the cover of the sacred religion Islam," the press centre head said.

Local media sources have reported about 40 killed servicemen, but the Defence
Ministry does not confirm this information.

"We have several people injured, including those with serious wounds. They all
have been taken to hospitals nearby. However, their exact number is not known
for now, as they were taken to various hospitals in chaos," Mahmadaliyev said.

He said that "law-enforcement officers have arrived at the scene of the terror
attack and are carrying out an operation to catch the criminal group".

"The Tajik Defence Ministry condemns the terror attack and is taking all the
necessary measures to detain and hold accountable those who committed the terror
attack," he noted.

[Passage omitted: covered details on the escape of 25 prisoners from the
Dushanbe remand centre in August 2010, they probably are hiding in the Rasht
Valley]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0757 gmt 20 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 20, 2010 Monday

Tajik ministry says "foreign mercenaries" involved in terror attack

LENGTH: 439 words


Text of report by state-owned Tajik Television First Channel on 20 September

A statement by the Tajik Defence Ministry

A service vehicle of the Tajik Defence Ministry with servicemen on board came
under strong armed assault of terrorist groups while fulfilling their duties at
about 1230 [local time - 0730 gmt] in the country's east, in Rasht District's
Kamarob gorge on 19 September 2010. As a result of this terrorist act, 23
servicemen have been killed and several others have been injured.

It should be noted that groups of Abdullo Rahimov, who is known under a nickname
of Mullo Abdullo, and Alovuddin Davlatov, who is known under a nickname of Ali
Bedak, have a hand in this terrorist act.

According to specific information, these terrorist groups comprise mercenaries
from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Russia's Chechnya. Undoubtedly, their main
purpose is to worsen the atmosphere of peace, tranquility and unity of the
country and to turn the Republic of Tajikistan into an arena for the region's
extremist and conflict seeking groups to carry out their activities under the
guise of Islamic ideas.

When this terrorist act happened, rapid groups of the country's all security
services arrived at the scene and launched an operation to detain criminals. The
operation to search the criminals is continuing.

Servicemen, who received severe physical injuries, have been immediately
admitted to hospitals nearby. The Tajik Defence Ministry condemns this terrorist
act and will take every rapid and specific measures to detain and to bring to
account criminals who have committed this coward and disgraceful deed.

Dear viewers. With a feeling of great sorrow Tajik President Emomali Rahmon
received the news about the tragic incident of attack on a vehicle of servicemen
of the national army which occurred in the afternoon of 19 September 2010 in
Rasht District and which claimed lives of servicemen. The Tajik president is
expressing his sympathy and condolences to the kith and kin of those who were
killed as a result of this incident.

Tajik President Emomali Rahmon, who is currently in New York to attend the 65th
session of the UN General Assembly, gave strict instructions to the Interior
Ministry, Defence Ministry and the State National Security Committee of
Tajikistan to detain and hold accountable the criminal group which committed
this disgraceful act.

Currently, in line with this order of Tajik President Emomali Rahmon the
country's security services are taking every possible measures so that to fully
ensure peaceful life of the country's people.

Source: Tajik Television First Channel, Dushanbe, in Tajik 0300 gmt 20 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 20, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tajik soldiers killed in 'terrorist attack';
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 72 words


Suspected Islamist terrorists ambushed a military truck in eastern Tajikistan
yesterday, killing at least 23 soldiers and wounding 10 others, a defence
ministry spokesman said.

The attack occurred east of the capital Dushanbe, in the Racht valley. Military
forces are leading operations in the region to try to find 25 fugitives with
suspected links to al-Qaeda, who escaped from a Dushanbe prison in August after
killing six guards.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           September 20, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorists 'will attack' France after burka ban

BYLINE: Joel Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 223 words


IT IS only a matter of time before Islamic terrorists mount a successful attack
on France, the country's top spy believes.

The recent burka ban means all the 'red lights are now flashing' in regard to a
possible atrocity, domestic intelligence boss Bernard Squarcini said yesterday.

Speaking after the evacuation of the Eiffel Tower last week following a bomb
scare, Mr Squarcini warned: 'France's role in Afghanistan, its foreign policy
and the debate over the law banning the burka have all increased the risk.' He
said security services foiled an average of two planned attacks every year, but
added: 'One day or another, we're going to get hit.

'The risk of a terrorist attack on French soil has never been higher and,
objectively, there are reasons for worry.' Leaders of al-Qaeda's north African
network have vowed revenge on France if it outlawed the full Islamic face veil
from its streets. Muslim women have a six-month 'grace period' to adapt to the
new burka rules without facing prosecution.

Meanwhile, security has been stepped up around Jewish institutions in Paris
following the arrest of a suspected terrorist who planned to bomb an Israel
defence forces fundraising event in the capital.

There have been 47 attacks against synagogues, Jewish schools, creches and
association buildings in France so far this year, and 190 threats.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Public ban: A burka

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

Ugandan court charges Kenyan Muslim activist over terror attacks

LENGTH: 279 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati "Activist charged over Uganda bombings" published
by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 21 September

Human rights activist Al-Amin Kimathi has been charged in Uganda in connection
with the twin bomb blasts in Kampala, on 11 July.

Kimathi, alongside Omar Awadh, a 37-year-old Kenyan businessman, face 89 counts
including terrorism, murder and attempted murder.

The prosecution alleges that on 11 July, the suspects carried out terrorism
attacks at Kyadondo Rugby Grounds, Ethiopian Village and Makindye Village.

Nakawa Court Chief Magistrate Deo Ssejjemba did not allow them to enter plea
since their case could on only be tried at the High Court. He remanded them at
the Luzira Prison until 8 October.

Kimathi and co-accused were last week arrested together with lawyer Mbugua
Mureithi. According to Uganda police, they were arrested while meeting in a
hotel in Kampala. Mr Mureithi was, however, released after three days.

This brings the number of suspects held over the attacks that claimed more than
70 lives to 38.

Some human rights activists had condemned Uganda for holding Kimathi in an
ungazetted safe house without trial.

The Kenyans were arrested at Niagara Hotel in a Kampala suburb. Apart from the
two, the others were arrested on diverse dates over the bombing that killed
football fans.

Uganda police spokesman Vincent Ssekate said on Saturday that they wanted the
two to tell them what they know about the bombings.

The police also said they were studying a laptop that Kimathi had, which they
claim, has information that could help build their case.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 21 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

Russian paper regrets subway terror attack militant's death

LENGTH: 480 words


Text of report by the website of pro-government Russian tabloid Komsomolskaya
Pravda on 14 September

[Report by Viktor Sokirko: "Militant Killed in Dagestan Will Not Say Anything
About Subway Blasts Now: In Interests of Investigation Live Shamil
Magomednabiyev Would Have Been Preferable to Dead One"]

In the opinion of investigators, Shamil Magomednabiyev was directly linked to
the terrorist attacks on the Moscow subway which took place 29 March this year.
It has been established that he had close ties with Magomedali Vagabov and
Magomed Isagadzhiyev, the direct organizers of the terrorist attacks - the
latter directly accompanied the suicide bombers to the subway stations.
Retribution was served - Vagabov and Isagadzhiyev were eliminated in August. Now
Magomednabiyev has also been killed - during a battle in the Dagestani village
of Komsomolskoye 12 September, in which siloviki eliminated three militants.

True, now none of them will give testimony on the subway terrorist attack itself
or the training of suicide bombers from the ranks of the so-called "black
widows." And it must be borne in mind that the main task of law enforcement
bodies is the punishment of criminals according to the law, not their
elimination during the process of detainment. With each new elimination of a
criminal a thread which could lead to the rebel leaders - the masterminds behind
the terrorist attacks - is cut short. You see, any captured militant can provide
investigators with a lot of useful information. For now all those who were
marked out have either been killed or are on the wanted list.

"All too often an order to arrest from above is premature (and there is no
avoiding resistance from the militants)," a special services agent in the North
Caucasus says. "A result is needed, shall we say, severed ears, which can be
presented as evidence. In this way a link which could have been used to work out
the major structure of the rebel underground resistance is lost. But there is a
certain elimination plan which everybody tries to fulfil. And then the search
for the criminals starts anew. Thus Magomednabiyev and all of his group were
bumped off. There will be awards and commendations, stock will rise, but the
valuable witnesses will not say anything now. And they would have talked! Any
captured militant can provide investigators with a lot of useful information."

Remember that a further 10 rebel group members were eliminated in Makhachkala 12
September. Expert laboratory employees identified the so-called "Sharia Judge"
of the Dagestani rebel underground resistance among those killed. It is likely
that these militants were involved in the murder of Gapal Gadzhiyev - head of
the North Caucasus antiextremism department. But they will not give any
information on crimes committed or future plans now.

Source: Komsomolskaya Pravda website, Moscow, in Russian 14 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Paris terrorist attack 'imminent'

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 165 words


FRANCE raised its terrorism alert yesterday amid fears of suicide bomb plots
against the Paris transport network.

It followed a tip-off from a friendly intelligence agency - thought to be
Algeria's - warning of an imminent al-Qaeda threat.

Five French nationals have been kidnapped close to a French uranium mine in
Niger in the past week, while a bomb scare caused alarm at the Eiffel Tower.

In a separate development, armed guards were deployed to protect a prominent
Islamic moderate, Dalil Boubakeur, rector of the Paris mosque.

"The terrorist threat is real and our vigilance is reinforced," said Brice
Hortefeux, interior minister.

Last week the Senate voted in favour of a ban on full Islamic veils and it is
due to come into force next year if approved by constitutional judges.
Al-Qaeda's deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahiri has urged Muslim women to resist the
proposed ban.

A police source said security services had identified two separate Islamist
sleeper cells which had been activated.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Paris terrorist attack 'imminent'

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 167 words


FRANCE raised its terrorism alert yesterday amid fears of suicide bomb plots
against the Paris transport network.

Its intelligence services were hunting a female would-be suicide bomber who they
believed could be planning to target the metro.

A police source said security services had identified two separate Islamist
sleeper cells which had been activated.

It followed a tip-off from a friendly intelligence agency - thought to be
Algeria's - warning of an imminent al-Qaeda threat.

Five French nationals have been kidnapped close to a French uranium mine in
Niger in the past week, while a bomb scare caused alarm at the Eiffel Tower. In
a separate development, armed guards were deployed to protect a prominent
Islamic moderate, Dalil Boubakeur, rector of the Paris mosque.

"The terrorist threat is real and our vigilance is reinforced," said Brice
Hortefeux, interior minister.

Last week the Senate voted in favour of a ban on full Islamic veils which could
come into force next year, angering al-Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

World News: France braced for terrorist attack in wake of veils ban

LENGTH: 408 words



HIGHLIGHT: France is on alert for possible terrorism after intelligence
suggested that attackers might target a public gathering place, with one lead
pointing to a female suicide bomber, a counter-terrorism official said.


The official said authorities were bracing for a possible attack last Thursday.
Nothing unusual happened that day in France, but authorities are not letting
their guard down, the official said.

The scare came as five French workers and two African colleagues were kidnapped
in Niger, part of the African turf of al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb. On
September 14, there was a false bomb alert at the Eiffel Tower.

Last week, the Senate voted to ban burka-style Islamic veils in France. That
prompted warnings by al-Qaida's Maghreb group.

Interior minister Brice Hortefeux said: "The terrorist threat is real, and today
our vigilance, therefore, is reinforced."

Speaking during a visit to the Seine-et-Marne region, east of Paris, he did not
elaborate on the additional security measures being taken.

Despite the warnings, Mr Hortefeux said France had not raised its terror alert
level to the highest ranking.

Actress faces return to prison
Judges in the US have issued an arrest warrant for actress Lindsay Lohan, who
has admitted failing a drugs test just weeks after being freed from jail.

The 24-year-old star could be sent back to prison for 30 days if she is found to
have breached her probation.

N Korea set for new leader
North Korea's ruling party will hold its first conference in a generation on
September 28, state media reports say, amid speculation that leader Kim Jong-il
is about to name his successor.

Mr Kim's third son, Kim Jong-un, is widely expected to become the next leader.

Games head slams village
The head of the Commonwealth Games has expressed concerns over the living
conditions of the athletes in Delhi.Commonwealth Games Federation chief Michael
Fennell said the condition of the athletes village had "shocked the majority (of
delegates]".

Mr Fennell's comments came after a number of countries have reportedly objected
to the living conditions in the athletes village.

The Games are being held next month.

Antiques turn up in PM's office
More than 600 antiquities have been returned to the Iraqi National Museum after
they were found in boxes in Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's office.

Antiquities minister Qahtan al-Jubouri blamed "inappropriate handover
procedures" for their disappearance.

Nine Nato members die in copter crash
Afghanistan: Nine members of the Nato-led International Security Assistance
Force have been killed in a helicopter crash in the south.

One Nato soldier, an Afghan soldier and a US civilian were also injured.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Terrorist attack alert

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 82 words


FRANCE: Authorities in France are on alert for possible terrorism after
intelligence suggested that attackers might target a public gathering place,
with one lead pointing to a female suicide bomber.

A counter-terrorism official said authorities were braced for a possible attack
last Thursday.

Nothing unusual happened that day in France, but authorities are not letting
their guard down, the official said.

The scare came as five French workers and two African colleagues were kidnapped
in Niger.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Gazette (Essex)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

Passengers feared terror attack on Stansted flight

BYLINE: James Dwan

SECTION: GAZETTE NEWS (EV GAZETTE NEWS)

LENGTH: 152 words


PASSENGERS on a flight to Stansted feared they were being targeted by terrorists
when their plane filled up with smoke.

White smoke filled the cabin of the EasyJet plane 15 minutes into the flight
from Naples to Stansted.

One passenger said that passengers feared the flight had been tarted by
terrorists, which sparked panic.

The pilot was forced to turn the flight around and make an emergency landing.

A spokesman for Easyjet said the incident happened on September 17.

"EasyJet flight EZY3364 from Naples to London Stansted returned to Naples when a
smell of smoke was detected after departure from Naples," he said.

"The aircraft with 144 passengers and six cabin crew on board landed normally
and all passengers and crew disembarked safely.

"All passengers and crew were transferred to another aircraft to continue their
journey to Stansted.

"At no time was the safety and wellbeing of the passengers compromised."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Games security upped after terrorist attack;
The World In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 99 words


SECURITY for the Commonwealth Games was tightened yesterday after a random
terrorist attack wounded two tourists in Delhi.

With the games due to start in less than a fortnight, officials tried to
reassure athletes and the public they were safe. Police increased patrols across
the city and put more officers on the streets, especially in areas frequented by
tourists.

The Taiwanese tourists were hurt by gunmen on a motorcycle who opened fire near
one of India's biggest mosques, the Jama Masjid.

Police launched a massive search for the gunmen and issued a security alert
across the Indian capital.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2010 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Games security upped after terrorist attack;
the world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 76 words


SECURITY for the Commonwealth Games was tightened yesterday after a random
terrorist attack wounded two tourists in Delhi.

With the games due to start in less than a fortnight, officials tried to
reassure athletes and the public they were safe. Police increased patrols across
the city, especially in areas frequented by tourists.

The Taiwanese tourists were hurt by gunmen on a motorcycle who opened fire near
one of India's biggest mosques, the Jama Masjid.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2010 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Games security stepped up after Delhi terror attack

BYLINE: JEFF WELLS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 365 words


Security for the Commonwealth Games was tightened after a random terrorist
attack wounded two tourists in Delhi.

With the games due to start in less than a fortnight officials tried to reassure
athletes and the public that they were safe.

Police increased patrols across the city and put more officers on the streets,
especially in areas frequented by tourists.

The tourists, from Taiwan, were hurt when gunmen on a motorcycle opened fire on
Sunday near one of India's biggest mosques, the Jama Masjid, in the heart of the
city.

Police launched a massive search for the gunmen and issued a security alert
across the Indian capital.

Hours later, the BBC's Hindi language service received an email from the Indian
Mujahideen, an Islamic militant group, threatening to attack the upcoming
Commonwealth Games which will draw vast crowds to watch 7,000 athletes perfor m.

The group, which has been linked to the banned Pakistan-based Islamist rebel
group Lashkar-e-Taiba, was outlawed in June after it was suspected of
involvement in an attack on a bakery in western India in which 10 people died.

New Delhi's top elected official, Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit, appealed for
calm, declaring the city was safe to host the October 3-14 games in which 71
teams are to take part. She said: "Please don't panic. An incident like this is
worrying, but nothing to panic about."

made elaborate arrangements to provide the Commonwealth Games athletes and
officials a safe and secure environment," he said.

The two Taiwanese men were stable in hospital after undergoing surgery, The area
around the mosque was cordoned off after the attack and police scoured the
densely populated alleys around it. Cars and other vehicles were checked at
barriers erected on major roads in the city.

Police said witnesses could give few details about the assailants.

"Eyewitnesses have told us the men were wearing raincoats and helmets. They
fired around seven rounds before they sped away," a spokesman said.

The secretary-general of the games organising committee, Lalit Bhanot, said the
shooting would have "no impact" on the event.

Indian authorities "have

'This is worrying, but nothing to panic about' Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Kenyan lawyer petitions US over probe into terror attacks in Uganda

LENGTH: 370 words


Text of report by Fred Mukinda headlined "Lawyer petitions US over Kampala
attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
22 September

A lawyer has petitioned the United States government over investigations into
the July twin bombings in Uganda.

In a letter to US ambassador Michael Ranneberger, Nairobi lawyer Mbugua Mureithi
complained that he was arrested illegally, held incommunicado and mistreated
under the supervision of FBI agents.

The FBI is assisting Ugandan detectives to investigate the blasts that killed 76
people in Kampala on 11 July.

The letter obtained by the Nation further claims that Muslim Human Rights Forum
executive coordinator Al-Amin Kimathi, who was arrested together with Mr
Mureithi, is facing trial on trumped up charges. He was charged with terrorism
and murder at a Ugandan court.

According to Ugandan police, the two were arrested in the company of an
Al-Shabab suspect at Niagara Hotel in Uganda.

The letter identifies the alleged suspect as Mr Omar Awadh Omar, but claims he
was arrested in Nairobi and not in Kampala.

"He was in fact arrested in Nairobi at around noon on 17 September - two days
after our arrest in Kampala. Habeas Corpus was filed in the High court in
Nairobi and is being heard today (yesterday)," read part of the letter.

Mr Mureithi was released on Saturday without charges and was flown back to
Nairobi, an act he describes as "deportation".

The letter recounts the arrest and interrogation.

"We were lured into a trap by members of Uganda's Rapid Response Unit. An
officer kept on calling Kimathi, posing as a good Samaritan waiting for us at
Niagara Hotel," the letter read.

It added: "On arrival at the hotel we were violently arrested, accused of being
terrorists, hooded and traumatised with endless high speed driving throughout
the night."

After interrogations, according to the lawyer, he was thrown into a cell where
three other Kenyan suspects who he had gone to represent in court, were being
held.

"They confided in me that the FBI had interrogated each of them and expressly
told them that they were the ones in effective charge of the investigations,"
the letter said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Iran official says 11 killed in Mahabad "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian radio on 22 September

[Presenter] In a terrorist attack this morning during the parade of the armed
forces in Mahabad, unfortunately 11 of our compatriots were martyred and 35
others were injured. Those martyred or injured in the incident were all women
and children. Isa Qanbari is the West Azarbayjan deputy governor-general for
security affairs.

[Qanbari - recording] The parade of the armed forces was under way in Mahabad on
31 Shahrivar [22 September, the 30th anniversary of the start of the Iraq-Iran
war] when at 1010 [local time; 0640 gmt] today, at a time when the forces were
passing through the Mother Boulevard in Mahabad, an explosion took place inside
the place where women were standing and watching the parade. As a result of the
explosion, 11 people, one of whom was a five-year old boy and the rest were
women, achieved martyrdom and 35 other were also injured. Some 12 of those
injured have been kept in hospital and the rest are being treated and are about
to leave the hospital.

[Correspondent] Mr Qanbari, do we know about those behind this terrorist attack?

[Qanbari] At the moment we do not know, but investigations are under way. We
will investigate the case and will announce the result in the near future, God
willing.

[Correspondent] Where was the bomb planted exactly?

[Qanbari] Among the needles of a pine tree inside the boulevard close to the
podium where a large number of women were present. The bomb was placed inside
the branches of the tree.

[Correspondent] Is it possible that the number of martyrs and those injured
would increase?

[Qanbari] No. The figures that I mentioned were the latest.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, in Persian 1030 gmt 22
Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Iran provincial official explains "terrorist attack" in Mahabad

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by Iranian official government news agency IRNA

Orumiyeh, 22 September: The governor-general of West Azarbayjan Province has
said: Unfortunately nine people were killed and 20 others were injured during a
terrorist explosion in Mahabad on Wednesday morning [22 September].

In an exclusive interview with an IRNA correspondent, Vahid Jalalzadeh, said
that the explosion happened among people who were watching the military parade
and honouring the fighters [of the Iraq-Iran war]. He added: Almost all of the
martyrs and injured are women and children.

The governor-general of West Azarbayjan stressed: Anti-revolution elements have
always carried out such bestial acts in Mahabad in order to take revenge from
the people. He said: The aim of the anti-revolution elements is to weaken the
resolve of the people of Mahabad who have always supported the system and their
offspring within the armed forces.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0903 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Indonesia: Terrorism expert says police station attack "response" to arrests

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report by Indonesian Metro TV on 22 September

Terrorism expert from Aceh, Al Chaidar, believes that the attack on a police
station in Hamparan Perak, Deli Serdang, North Sumatra early this morning was a
retaliation of terrorist group in North Sumatra following the arrests made by
the Special Detachment 88.

Terrorism expert Al Chaidar. (MetroTV, 22 Sep)

According to Al-Chaidar, the attack had been planned because the police, in
addition to US interests, are on their list of targets. The attack on the police
station also shows that terrorist group in North Sumatra is still strong in
terms of weaponry and number of members. This group is only short of funds.

To prevent similar incidents, the police must proactively increase security at
police stations, install CCTV's, and strengthen social relationships with the
surrounding communities. If needed, the police can also ask for help from the
Indonesian Military because terrorist groups are employing guerilla strategy.

[Begin Al-Chaidar recording] It is a response of terrorist group against the
arrests of their friends in Belawan and Tanjung Balai. This in fact was their
hands-on practice in the field to carry out attacks in the form of guerilla
warfare in accordance with the training they had received in Aceh Besar in [
2009]. [end recording]

Source: Metro TV, Jakarta, in Indonesian 0450 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Iran regional official says 11 killed in Mahabad "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 611 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 22 September

[Presenter] This morning, a bomb was detonated in Mahabad [a township in
northwest of Iran]. The exploded bomb had been placed among women and children
who were watching the [annual military] parades. According to the Central News
Unit form Mahabad, because of this terrorist explosion, at least 10 women and
children were killed and 35 other people were injured.

[Correspondent] In a terrorist attack during the parade of armed forces on the
occasion of Sacred Defence Week in Mahabad, a number of our citizens were
killed.

[An injured girl] We were standing when the bomb exploded. Everyone tried to
escape. When I tried to escape, I felt that I had lost the control of my foot.

[Injured woman - 1] Many people and children were killed and injured. The bomb
exploded near us.

[Injured woman - 2 speaking on the subject in Kurdish]

[Injured woman - 1] They are hypocrites [members of Mojahedin-e Khalq
Organization] and anti-Islam elements, those who do not like the Iranians.

[The injured girl] All of these are because of hypocrites and the
counterrevolutionaries.

[Presenter] For more information on the details of the terrorist attack, I will
interview the governor-general of West Azarbayjan Province in Mahabad Hamid
Jalalzadeh.

Mr Jalalzadeh can you explain the significance of the event to us and then
please confirm that the number of those killed and injured is the same as that
announced in the report.

[Jalalzadeh] In the name of God, I want to say hello to you and the respectable
audience of this news bulletin. I want to use this opportunity to congratulate
the start of Sacred Defence Week to people of Iran. The people of West
Azarbayjan Province participated in welcoming ceremonies for their powerful
armed forces similar to other provinces of Iran. And, with God's blessing, the
ceremonies were organized successfully in all cities of the province.

As you reported, on the sidelines of the parade of armed forces in Mahabad
Township, a bomb was exploded in front of the podium at 1010 local time [0640
gmt] and many women and children were killed. I send my condolences to all
respectable people of Iran on the occasion of this catastrophe.

As your report indicated, I have received news on the death of 10 residents and
injury of 35.

I came to Mahabad immediately and organized a meeting with the Security Council
in order to discuss the development.

We met injured people in hospitals and transferred the message of the interior
minister [Mostafa Mohammad Najjar] to injured people.

[Presenter] Mr Jalalzadeh, please give us some details on the explosion; was it
a bomb blast or was it a suicide-bombing? Have the perpetrators been identified?

[Jalalzadeh] As it was mentioned, the event happened only a few hours ago. From
the beginning of the event [changing tack], it is a good place to thank the
emergency groups for their timely presence and services to injured people and
transferring the bodies of people killed.

As the investigations indicate, the attempt has foreign backing.

Unfortunately, the Americans and their allies are in the region. From the first
day of their presence in the region and their slogan to establish security in
the region, we can see that the unrest has increased.

[Presenter] Thank you very much.

[Jalalzadeh] But, unfortunately their support for the counterrevolution,
hypocrites and terrorist groups in the region has been proven.

Today's event was surely one event which had the support of the foreigner powers
and global arrogance and [it was part of] their plots.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1103 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

USA split over terrorist attack commemorations - Russian commentary

LENGTH: 1072 words


Text of report by the website of liberal Russian newspaper Vremya Novostey on 13
September

Report by Pyotr Iskenderov and Boris Kaymakov: "Flaming Anniversary. The 11
September Commemoration Split American Society"

The commemorative solemnities on the latest anniversary of the terrorist acts of
11 September 2001 in the United States passed by without major excesses;
however, they did not reduce tension in relations with the Muslim world. While
the nearest and dearest of those who died at the hands of terrorists lit candles
and prayed, in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other states passions seethed.
Participants in mass demonstrations held the United States up to shame over the
intention of a number of American clergymen to mark the somber anniversary with
a public burning of the Koran. In Afghanistan casualties were not avoided -- in
Logar Province the security forces opened fire on demonstrators and shot dead at
least two Afghans.

And although organized actions involving the desecration of the Islamic holy
book were avoided in the United States, a spontaneous bonfire nevertheless
blazed in the State of Tennessee, where two pastors marked the ninth anniversary
by burning the Koran on a lawn in front of a house. And the intention of the New
York authorities to build a 13-story Islamic cultural center -- already dubbed
the "Obama mosque" -- on the site of the World Trade Center, which was blown up
by terrorists, continues to split American society.

Almost 3,000 people were killed as a result of the terrorist acts of 11
September 2001. The overwhelming majority (2,752) perished in the collapse of
the twin towers of New York's World Trade Center, which were hit by airplanes
controlled by terrorist suicide bombers. The names of the victims of this
tragedy were, as per tradition, read out by the organizers of the commemorative
ceremony in Manhattan's nearby Zuccotti Park. "We have returned to this holy
place in order to link our hearts with the names of those whom we loved and whom
we have lost," New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg stated. "No public tragedy has
wounded our city so deeply," he stressed. "No other place is so filled with our
compassion, our love, and our solidarity."

However, the area where the twin towers used to stand has this year become more
than just a place of remembrance. For the first time in the past nine years the
mourning solemnities were marked by serious tension and high feelings. At the
end of the official events spontaneous demonstrations arose in various districts
of New York both in support of the building of the Islamic cultural center, and
with a demand to cancel the project, which was approved by a city commission
already at the beginning of August. The overwhelming majority of Americans do
not doubt the responsibility of Al Qaida for the 11 September terrorist acts,
and hence, to many people, the idea of building an Islamic facility in what is
for them a holy place seems blasphemous. Their opponents, following US President
Barack Obama called for "religious tolerance" and awaited reports on acts
involving the burning of the Koran with trepidation.

This initiative was put forward back in August by Terry Jones, pastor of a
Protestant church in the city of Gainesville (State of Florida). He even called
for 11 September to be transformed into "international Koran-burning day."
Appeals were made to the pastor and his confederates to refrain from acts of
provocation in the last days by President Obama, US Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton, Attorney General Eric Holder, Defense Secretary Robert Gates, David
Petraeus, commander of US and NATO forces in Afghanistan, UN Secretary General
Ban-Ki Moon, Pope Benedict XVI, and many other figures. Barack Obama stated 10
September in an appeal to the nation that video footage of the consecration of
the Koran to the flames by a Christian clergyman would be "the most effective
recruiting tool imaginable for the Al Qaida terrorist group." He stressed that
the United States "is not at war with Islam." "We are fighting terrorist
organizations that distort Islam, or claim that they are standing under the
banner of Islam in order to justify their destructive actions."

"Anti-Islamic feelings are dangerous," Nina Mamedova, head of the Iran d
epartment of the Academy of Sciences Institute of Oriental Studies, stressed in
conversation with Vremya Novostey. "After all, Muslims not only constitute a
significant part of the world's population; they are also steadily increasing
their economic and military potential. In this respect, Muslim countries have
grown especially rapidly in the past decade." "The fact that blame for the 11
September terrorist acts is placed exclusively on Muslims just because they are
Muslims provokes from them hurt feelings and protest. And the roots of all this
should be sought in the world's political structure and in the relations between
the United States and the states of the Islamic world," the expert believes. In
her words, "hopes for the stabilization of relations with the Islamic world were
linked with Barack Obama, and there has been a certain progress." Our
interlocutor adds: "Obama himself to a certain extent belongs to the Islamic
world, and he understands that it is necessary to take into account the
mentality of Muslim peoples. However, doubts that the United States' policy with
regard to Islamic countries is undergoing positive changes still remain."

At the last moment Pastor Jones decided against his dangerous intention, stating
that he expected goodwill gestures from the initiators of building the Islamic
cultural center in New York too. However, desecration of the Koran was not
avoided after all. In the State of Tennessee, two pastors -- Danny Allen and Bob
Old -- publicly burned at least two copies of the book, at the same time
declaring Islam to be a false religion. In New York there was also an incident
involving the burning of several pages torn from the Koran.

"The events of 11 September attest that the developed countries must seek a
consensus in relations with the Islamic world," Nina Mamedova is convinced. In
her words, "the prejudiced critical attitude to all Muslims is unacceptable to
Russian Muslims too." "Pretexts arise on this basis for extremist oppositionist
movements, especially in view of the unequal economic development of Russia's
regions," the expert believes.

Source: Vremya Novostey website, Moscow, in Russian 13 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

Over 50 terrorist attacks averted in Russia's Caucasus in 2010

LENGTH: 187 words


Russian security services have averted over 50 terrorist attacks, seized 140
explosive devices and killed 160 gunmen in the North Caucasus in 2010, RIA
Novosti news agency reported on 22 September.

"Russian Security Services, Interior Ministry and other law-enforcement agency
staff have averted over 50 terrorist attacks in the North Caucasus Federal
District since the beginning of the year," head of the regional directorate of
the Prosecutor General's Office Artem Melnikov has said, as reported by the
agency.

Since the beginning of 2010 the police confiscated over 800 kg of explosive
substances, 560 fire-arms and over 140 ready-to-use explosive devices, he said.
He also said that in Chechnya this kind of work was being done with particular
intensity; 197 individuals who aided and abetted militants were found there,
against 17 in Dagestan.

He went on to say that law-enforcement agencies should first of all focus on
preventative measures, as it is much cheaper to prevent a crime than to
investigate it and pay off compensations, the report said.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1009 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

(Corr): Iran regional official says 10 killed in Mahabad "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 630 words


[Correction: Altering the number of people killed in headline from 11 to 10; a
corrected version of the item follows]Text of report by state-run Iranian TV
channel one on 22 September

[Presenter] This morning, a bomb was detonated in Mahabad [a township in
northwest of Iran]. The exploded bomb had been placed among women and children
who were watching the [annual military] parades. According to the Central News
Unit form Mahabad, because of this terrorist explosion, at least 10 women and
children were killed and 35 other people were injured.

[Correspondent] In a terrorist attack during the parade of armed forces on the
occasion of Sacred Defence Week in Mahabad, a number of our citizens were
killed.

[An injured girl] We were standing when the bomb exploded. Everyone tried to
escape. When I tried to escape, I felt that I had lost the control of my foot.

[Injured woman - 1] Many people and children were killed and injured. The bomb
exploded near us.

[Injured woman - 2 speaking on the subject in Kurdish]

[Injured woman - 1] They are hypocrites [members of Mojahedin-e Khalq
Organization] and anti-Islam elements, those who do not like the Iranians.

[The injured girl] All of these are because of hypocrites and the
counterrevolutionaries.

[Presenter] For more information on the details of the terrorist attack, I will
interview the governor-general of West Azarbayjan Province in Mahabad Hamid
Jalalzadeh.

Mr Jalalzadeh can you explain the significance of the event to us and then
please confirm that the number of those killed and injured is the same as that
announced in the report.

[Jalalzadeh] In the name of God, I want to say hello to you and the respectable
audience of this news bulletin. I want to use this opportunity to congratulate
the start of Sacred Defence Week to people of Iran. The people of West
Azarbayjan Province participated in welcoming ceremonies for their powerful
armed forces similar to other provinces of Iran. And, with God's blessing, the
ceremonies were organized successfully in all cities of the province.

As you reported, on the sidelines of the parade of armed forces in Mahabad
Township, a bomb was exploded in front of the podium at 1010 local time [0640
gmt] and many women and children were killed. I send my condolences to all
respectable people of Iran on the occasion of this catastrophe.

As your report indicated, I have received news on the death of 10 residents and
injury of 35.

I came to Mahabad immediately and organized a meeting with the Security Council
in order to discuss the development.

We met injured people in hospitals and transferred the message of the interior
minister [Mostafa Mohammad Najjar] to injured people.

[Presenter] Mr Jalalzadeh, please give us some details on the explosion; was it
a bomb blast or was it a suicide-bombing? Have the perpetrators been identified?

[Jalalzadeh] As it was mentioned, the event happened only a few hours ago. From
the beginning of the event [changing tack], it is a good place to thank the
emergency groups for their timely presence and services to injured people and
transferring the bodies of people killed.

As the investigations indicate, the attempt has foreign backing.

Unfortunately, the Americans and their allies are in the region. From the first
day of their presence in the region and their slogan to establish security in
the region, we can see that the unrest has increased.

[Presenter] Thank you very much.

[Jalalzadeh] But, unfortunately their support for the counterrevolution,
hypocrites and terrorist groups in the region has been proven.

Today's event was surely one event which had the support of the foreigner powers
and global arrogance and [it was part of] their plots.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1103 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                   September 22, 2010 Wednesday 02:34 PM GMT

Terror attack threat hits peak in France

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words


The threat of a terrorist attack on French soil is at its highest as authorities
suspect al-Qaida's North African affiliate may be plotting a conventional bomb
attack on a crowded target, the director of the country's national police said
today.

Frederic Pechenard told Europe-1 radio: "We have serious indications coming from
reliable intelligence saying that there's an important risk of an attack."

He said that al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb "is targeting us in particular.
That's for certain".

The group - which claimed responsibility for last week's abduction of five
French nationals and two Africans in northern Niger - is not thought to have the
means to launch a nuclear or biological attack, but is considered capable of
targeted assassinations and attacks using conventional explosives, he said.

"In order to do the maximum possible damage (such an attack) would be likely to
happen in a place where there are lots of people, which could be the public
transit system, a department store or a gathering," Pechenard said.

His comments came a day ahead of nationwide demonstrations against the
government's pension reform.

A previous round of protests earlier this month brought more than one million
people onto the streets of France, with hundreds of thousands taking part in
demonstrations in Paris.

"Unfortunately, potential targets abound," Pechenard said.

He said moderate Muslim figures could also be targets.

The rector of the main Paris mosque, prominent moderate Dalil Boubakeur, was
recently assigned armed guards.

Pechenard said that several prominent personalities have been placed under
increased security.

Last week, there was a false bomb alert at the Eiffel Tower, as well as the
kidnapping of the five French workers and their two African colleagues in Niger.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 22, 2010 Wednesday 3:18 PM BST

FOUR POLICE IN COURT CHARGED WITH ATTACKING TERROR SUSPECT

BYLINE: Paula Fentiman, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 241 words


Four police officers appeared in court today charged with attacking a terrorist
suspect almost seven years ago.

The officers - Pcs Nigel Cowley, 33, Roderick James-Bowen, 40, Mark Jones, 43,
and Detective Constable John Donohue, 36 - are accused of assault occasioning
actual bodily harm during the arrest of Babar Ahmad on December 2 2003.

The four, who were all members of the Metropolitan Police's territorial support
group (TSG) at the time, spoke only to confirm their names and ages at City of
Westminster Magistrates' Court.

Defence counsel Colin Reynolds said all four men intend to plead not guilty.

District Judge Daphne Wickham committed the case to Southwark Crown Court on
October 29.

The police officers, who did not enter the court via the main entrance amid high
security, were granted unconditional bail.

Ahmad, 36, who remains in custody awaiting a decision on whether he can be
extradited to the United States, was held on suspicion of supporting and helping
to recruit terrorists to fight in Afghanistan and Chechnya through email
accounts and websites.

He was arrested during a raid at his home in Tooting, south London.

The computer expert was never charged in Britain, but has been held in Long
Lartin prison since 2004 after the United States issued an extradition warrant.

In July, the European Court of Human Rights halted the move as it considers
whether it will breach his rights by exposing him to life imprisonment without
parole.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               September 22, 2010

Officers to appear in court over terror suspect attack

BYLINE: Ian Mason

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 210 words


Four police officers will appear in court this afternoon charged with assaulting
Tooting terror suspect Babar Ahmad.

They are to appear at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court accused of
attacking the 36-year-old as they arrested him during a raid on his home in
2003.

PCs Nigel Cowley, 32, Roderick James-Bowen, 39, and Mark Jones, 43, and
Detective Constable John Donohue, 36 - who were all members of the Metropolitan
Police's territorial support group at the time - face a joint charge of assault
occasioning actual bodily harm.

Mr Ahmad won a £60,000 payout from the Met in March 2009 after the force
admitted he had been attacked. He is currently in the low-secure Long Lartin
prison after being held without trial for nearly seven years - the longest
detained-without-charge British citizen in the modern history of the UK,
according to campaign group Free Babar Ahmad.

He has never been charged or convicted of any criminal offence.

After his imprisonment in 2004, the American Government issued a warrant for his
extradition, claiming he was involved in websites that allegedly supported
Chechen resistance fighters in the 1990s.

Judges at the European Court of Human Rights are due to announce next year
whether extradition would breach his human rights.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               September 22, 2010

UPDATE: Officers to stand trial over terror suspect attack

BYLINE: Ian Mason

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 233 words


Four police officers will stand trial over accusations they assaulted Tooting
terror suspect Babar Ahmad.

At City of Westminster Magistrates' Court today, their defence counsel Colin
Reynolds said they intended to enter not guilty pleas in relation to allegations
they attacked the 36-year-old as they arrested him during a raid on his home in
2003.

The officers - PCs Nigel Cowley, 32, Roderick James-Bowen, 39, and Mark Jones,
43, and Detective Constable John Donohue, 36 - spoke only to confirm their name
and ages.

District Judge Daphne Wickham committed the case to Southwark Crown Court. The
men, who were all members of the Metropolitan Police's territorial support group
at the time, will stand trial charged with assault occasioning actual bodily
harm on October 29.

Mr Ahmad is currently in the low-secure Long Lartin prison after being held
without trial for nearly seven years - the longest detained-without-charge
British citizen in the modern history of the UK, according to campaign group
Free Babar Ahmad.

He has never been charged or convicted of any criminal offence.

After his imprisonment in 2004, the American Government issued a warrant for his
extradition, claiming he was involved in websites that allegedly supported
Chechen resistance fighters in the 1990s.

Judges at the European Court of Human Rights are due to announce next year
whether extradition would breach his human rights.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday

Indonesian terrorism expert says police station attack retaliation

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report by Indonesian Metro TV on 22 September

Terrorism expert from Aceh, Al Chaidar, believes that the attack on a police
station in Hamparan Perak, Deli Serdang, North Sumatra early this morning was a
retaliation of terrorist group in North Sumatra following the arrests made by
the Special Detachment 88.

Terrorism expert Al Chaidar. (MetroTV, 22 Sep)

According to Al-Chaidar, the attack had been planned because the police, in
addition to US interests, are on their list of targets. The attack on the police
station also shows that terrorist group in North Sumatra is still strong in
terms of weaponry and number of members. This group is only short of funds.

To prevent similar incidents, the police must proactively increase security at
police stations, install CCTV's, and strengthen social relationships with the
surrounding communities. If needed, the police can also ask for help from the
Indonesian Military because terrorist groups are employing guerilla strategy.

[Begin Al-Chaidar recording] It is a response of terrorist group against the
arrests of their friends in Belawan and Tanjung Balai. This in fact was their
hands-on practice in the field to carry out attacks in the form of guerilla
warfare in accordance with the training they had received in Aceh Besar in [
2009]. [end recording]

Source: Metro TV, Jakarta, in Indonesian 0450 gmt 22 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday

Indonesia: President urges quick police response after Sumatra terror attack

LENGTH: 365 words


Text of report by Indonesian newspaper Kompas Cyber Media website
(www.kompas.com) on 23 September

[Unattributed article: 'Simbol Negara Diserang']

[On 22 September 2010,] North Sumatra Deputy Governor Gatot Pujo Nugroho
expressed concern over the attack on Hamparan Perak Sub-district Police Station
in Deli Serdang District, saying it was a direct attack on a symbol of the
state.

"It's as if the government has no authority," he said.

He called on the police to be professional and investigate the case thoroughly
without bias towards any group.

North Sumatra Governor Syamsul Arifin said that the incident would affect the
province as a whole.

"This will also have an economic effect. And North Sumatra, which always has
been known as a safe place, will be perceived as unsafe because of this
incident," he said.

Arifin said that the provincial government would soon hold a meeting with
district leaders about the current security situation in the province, adding
that he had asked all district heads and mayors to be more vigilant.

On 22 September, Coordinating Minister for Political, Legal and Security Affairs
Djoko Suyanto passed on President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's instruction to the
Indonesian National Police (Polri) and the Indonesian Armed Forces (TNI) that
the state would not give in to terrorism.

The President made his comments in response to the attack on Hamparan Perak
Sub-district Police Station in North Sumatra, and called for the police to
immediately search for and arrest the perpetrators. Suyanto also said that Polri
must work together with TNI and the State Intelligence Agency (BIN), and other
groups in the community to immediately find the perpetrators of the attack.
Kompas -23 Sep: 'Negara Tidak Boleh Kalah'.]

Meanwhile, I/Bukit Barisan Military Area Command (Kodam I) Lieutenant Colonel
Spokesman Asren Nasution said that Kodam I was ready to help police [in their
investigations], but added that the police had not formally requested assistance
from TNI. He added that the commander of Kodam I had asked the units under his
authority to be more vigilant and report any suspicious activity.

Source: Kompas Cyber Media website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 23 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday

Iran analyst questions US report on 9/11 terror attacks

LENGTH: 756 words


Excerpt of Commentary by Hanif Ghaffari headlined "A lie which is as tall as
twin towers" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat on 12 September

These days the American media is talking about the 11 September and the
officials of Bush's period are making statements about this event one after
another. Commentaries on the attack on the New York Twin Towers have dominated
the media. Some individuals, like Condoleezza Rice [former US Secretary of
State] and Dick Cheney [former US vice-president] are trying to analyze and
criticize the world after the 11 September and are trying to reveal some secret
issues [related to the incident].

The reality behind the incident is that radical neo-conservatives had designed
and implemented the 11 September events and used that self-made incident to
attack Afghanistan and Iraq. However, today the real elements behind this event
should be answerable for the 11 September incident.

We still remember that when Bush Junior and Tony Blair talked about the reasons
of their invasion on Iraq and Afghanistan in front of a group of reporters and
public opinion, they immediately referred to the address of the destroyed Twin
Towers in New York City.

Last year, in a signed letter, more than 1,000 experts and specialists
questioned the US government's official report on the 11 September events, and
demanded independent inquiry into the issue. Such independent investigation has
not been carried out yet because the US security institutions and intelligence
agencies have tried to prevent people and media sources to get access to the
confidential information about 11 September events. This year also these
ambiguities, along with the added ones, remain unanswered.

The interesting point here is that members of the Democratic Party have not said
anything about the 11 September events. 11 September is considered as a common
front for the pigeons and hawks of Washington. During the presidential election
campaign in 2004, the Democrat candidates John Kerry and John Edwards could have
easily cornered the two-member team of Bush-Cheney with a few simple questions
about the 11-September event. However, the silence of these two veteran US
politicians was an indicator of many behind-the-scene facts.

[passage omitted]

The experts, who have demanded to pursue the 11 September events, include
individuals like Dr David Ray Griffin, who has written immensely about 11
September events and Dr Steven Jones, a nuclear physicist and 11 September
researcher. However, any response was not given to these individuals yet.

It is believed that complicating the 11 September project is media machination
of a powerful lobby in Washington. The media outlets close to two main American
political parties are trying to project this issue as complicated, ambiguous and
mysterious. Meanwhile, the issue is completely clear and simple. The discussed
questions about 11 September events are clear to the extent, that even a simple
US citizens or just a viewer of news can also sense the existing ambiguities.

The passenger aircraft flying at a very low altitude, green light of the US
security forces to the perpetrators of attack and controlled collapse of the
World Trade buildings... [Ellipsis as published] are the codes [as published]
that lead us to unravel the facts about 11 September 2001.

The latest disclosures are based on the evidences of courts, video footages and
testimonies of eyewitnesses, which were not included in the official reports.
Among these issues, we can refer to the free collapse of the 47 floors of the
World Trade Centre building, which was completely controlled. However, the US
officials have no answer to these documents, but silence.

Nevertheless, the existing data that confirm that 11 September events were
carried out intentionally and were completely controlled do not end here. In
each sample taken from the dust after the collapse of the World Trade Centre,
prints of advanced "nano-thermite" explosive material were obtained, which is a
sort of a super-explosive material originating from a combination of thermites.
Was this explosive material was sprayed by the pilots of the aircrafts on the
Twin Towers' middle floors?

Finally, the time is ripe for uncovering the facts related to 11 September
events. Accordingly, the dark aspects of the 11 September events will be
discovered one after the other so that the international system could identify
the real face of the lobbying power in the United States.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian, 12 Sep 10, p 21

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday

Baseball bat attack terror for couple in farmhouse

BYLINE: PETER RICHARDSON

LENGTH: 460 words


A COUPLE were subjected to terrifying violence by raiders who targeted their
isolated farmhouse searching for cash, a court has heard.

David Elston was smashed across the head with a baseball bat when he was
attacked from behind as he loaded his pick-up truck on the paddock of his farm.

The jury at Lincoln Crown Court was told that Mr Elston collapsed unconscious
and was then tied up with his own belt before an intruder entered the property
and attacked his wife, Lorraine, 63.

Gordon Aspden, prosecuting, said that Mrs Elston was temporarily knocked out and
when she came round her attacker tied her ankles and wrists with cable ties
before demanding money.

Mrs Elston was then dragged into the kitchen of the property where a knife was
held to her face as she was told to reveal where the safe was.

"The intruder told her that unless she revealed the whereabouts of the safe he
would cut off her nose and then cut her throat," Mr Aspden said.

"He left the house and a few moments later returned with a second man. Mrs
Elston was convinced she was to be murdered. Neither man seemed concerned about
her being able to identify them later on as their faces were visible.

She pleaded with them for mercy."
   Lee Burton, 36, of Tower Road, Hartshorne, and Lee Watkins, 36, of Measham
Road, Moira, have admitted conspiracy to rob.

Andrew Waite, 38, of Cemetery Road, Bicker, Lincolnshire, denies the same
charge. A fourth man alleged to have been involved has yet to be traced by
police.

Mr Aspden said that after being told the safe keys were on Mr Elston's keyring
the intruders cut the telephone wires and left, taking a wallet - containing
just £200.

Mrs Elston, although still tied up, managed to hop around her house onto the
main road and her cries for help alerted neighbours who raised the alarm.

The couple were both taken to hospital, with Mr Elston in such a grave condition
he was immediately transferred to a specialist unit at the Queen's Medical
Centre, Nottingham.

His skull was fractured in three places and he later underwent an operation
which saved his life. His wife suffered two deep lacerations to her head and
other injuries.

A burned-out Jeep Cherokee used by the raiders was discovered later the same
evening and a VW Passat which had been parked nearby was also linked to the
robbery.

The Passat was traced later to Solihull. Forensic tests revealed the
fingerprints of both Watkins and Burton while a thumbprint of local man Waite
was on the internal mirror.

Mr Aspden said that the Elstons, who ran a bird sanctuary and earned a living
from selling eggs and logs, appeared to have been targeted because the robbers
believed they would find a large amount of cash at their home in Frithville,
near Boston, Lincolnshire.

The trial continues.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2010 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

French terror attack threat  reaches peak

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: WOR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 51 words


paris: The threat of a terrorist attack on French soil is at its highest as
authorities suspect al-Qaeda s North African affiliate may be plotting a bomb
attack, the director of the country s national police said yesterday. Frederic
Pechenard told Europe-1 radio that there was an  important risk of an attack .

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French intelligence fears terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 73 words


The threat of a terrorist attack on French soil is at its highest as authorities
suspect al Qaida may be plotting a conventional bomb attack on a crowded target,
the director of the country's national police has warned Frederic Pechenard told
Europe-1 radio: "We have serious indications coming from reliable intelligence
that there's an important risk of an attack."

He said al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb "is targeting us in particular."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

"Secret" Kenyan police report details Al-Qa'idah's role in Uganda terror attack

LENGTH: 543 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Secret report exposes terror network's
operations in Kampala attack" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper
Daily Nation website on 24 September

New details have emerged about what police and the intelligence services fear is
a network of terrorists who pose a threat to Kenyans.

In a report shown to the Nation on Thursday [23 September], the authorities also
revealed more information about how they believe the bombing attacks in Kampala
on 11 July were planned and carried.

But the purpose of leaking the declassified information appeared to be to warn
the country of the danger posed by elements of what they called Al-Qa'idah's
east African cell. Local Al-Qa'idah has merged with Al-Shabab, the Somali
extremist group which claimed responsibility for the Kampala bombings.

According to the report, the cell has 17 officials, and two liaison officers
based in Nairobi and Beirut, providing the link to Al-Qa'idah.

The cell leader in east Africa, the report claims, is Mr Fazul Harun, an
Afghanistan trained terrorist who has been involved in planning and executing
all terrorist attacks against Kenya and on whose head the US government has
placed a 5m-dollar bounty.

Anti-terror officials accuse Mr Abu Sahal of being Mr Harun's deputy. The Nation
could not reach Mr Sahal or independently verify the claims.

According to the report, terrorists in Somalia have been recruiting suicide
bombers, intelligence and surveillance officers from Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania
since 2007.

The recruitment was, with time, extended from North Eastern and Coast provinces
to Central, Western, Nyanza and Eastern.

Some of the recruits have been arrested in connection with the Kampala bombings
that claimed the lives of 76 people as they watched the World Cup finals on 11
July, it claimed.

A day later, plans to stage similar attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa were scuttled
after the suspects were arrested, according to the report.

The report also mentions a plan by Al-Qa'idah and Al-Shabab to disrupt the 2007
general election but does not disclose the motive or how it would have been
executed.

The explosives used in Uganda were assembled in Somalia, and possibly 10 vests
laden with explosives were delivered to Mombasa in February.

"It has not been determined who bought the vests, the actual number and how they
got into the country, but it's likely they were brought in by sea," it reads.

They were kept at a house in Mwembe Tanganyika by one of the Kenyans arraigned
in court in Uganda, the report claims.

The report does not say how the vests were brought to Nairobi but reveals that a
Land Cruiser was bought which transported them from Nairobi to Kampala on 8 May,
entering Uganda at Malaba. One of the vehicle's occupants, was arrested at the
border "because he had been watch listed," according to the report.

Two top lieutenants of Al-Qa'idah chief commander in East Africa organized his
release.

So far, 38 suspects, among them nine Kenyans, have been arrested and are facing
trial in Uganda.

Muslim leaders in Kenya have accused police and the intelligence services of
illegally transferring Kenyans to Uganda and are demanding that they be returned
and tried at home.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 24 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Iran paper accuses top US official of hiding facts on 11 Sept terror attack

LENGTH: 534 words


Text of unattributed commentary by foreign political desk headlined "Rice does
not tell the truth!" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat on 18 September

Like other American officials involved in the 11 September 2001 event,
Condoleezza Rice prefers not to say anything regarding this so that the role of
the Washington government of that time in the destruction of the Twin Towers of
the World Trade Centre in New York is not disclosed.

Rice prefers to rely on the sidelines of this issue such as how she shouted at
Bush Junior after this event or what moves should the US political and security
organization should have made to tackle this issue. She escapes the main [point]
of the issue.

She is extremely afraid of speaking about herself as the US National Security
Advisor of that time and the neo-conservative government's direct interference
in the above-mentioned event. This fear is natural and the other members of Bush
government also suffer from it.

At the same time, the former US National Security Advisor cannot escape the
media. She appears in front of the media but tries to decrease the main load of
the story and add to its sidelines.

The most important headline that has been published about Rice with regard to
the 11 September 2001 event has been related to her dialogue with Bush Junior
after the event; the story that a few hours after the attack on 11 September
2001, she shouted at Bush and prevented him from returning to Washington.

Based on this, 30 minutes after the terrorists had flown the second kidnapped
plane towards the World Trade Centre and the two planes had hit these towers,
Condoleezza Rice, the US National Security Advisor of the time, had an argument
with the US President [of the time] George Bush.

This argument took place when Bush told Rice he intended to return to the White
House in order to take the control of the security crisis!

The reality is that the US National Security Advisor of the time has many unsaid
things with regard to the 11 September event. However, usually no criminals
confess about their crime in a natural situation. Rice, [Dick] Cheney, [US
vice-president under Bush administration], [John] Bolton [US envoy to the UN
under Bush administration] and [US Secretary of Defence under Bush
administration Donald] Rumsfeld are not exceptions to this rule.

Rice has tried to narrate the 11 September story like an interesting police
movie.

[She says:] "Many people came to this place from the White House. It went so far
that we could not even breathe. The members of the White House Secret Service
entered this place after some time, saying they had to take some people away
from this place..."

Rice stated that the government's communication systems were also unsuccessful
at the time of the 11 September attack and that even Bush spoke through
non-protected lines, which were easily obstructed. However, Rice knows very well
that in this story, the American intelligence and security services cooperated
with the agents of the event themselves and had information about the flight of
the planes at such a low level from the Earth. This event was preventable even
by a simple security structure!

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 18 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     September 24, 2010 Friday 04:18 PM GMT

Irish terror attack on UK a 'strong possibility'

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 322 words


The threat level to the UK from Irish-related terrorism has gone from moderate
to substantial, meaning an attack is a "strong possibility", British Home
Secretary Theresa May said today.

It is the first time that this threat level has been published, the British Home
Office said.

The threat from international terrorism remains severe.

Mrs May said: "The Director-General of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.

"This is the first time we have published the Irish-related threat assessment to
Great Britain. This is in the interests of transparency and to encourage people
to remain vigilant.

"The first and most important duty of government is the protection and security
of the British people.

"We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from terrorism is
real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The threat assessment was being published for the first time "to encourage
people to be alert to the increased threat from Irish-related terrorism'', the
Home Office said.

But the threat is still lower than the overall threat level to the UK from
international terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre
(Jtac), which remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

"Measures taken to deal with the international terrorist threat will also
counter the threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism," a Home Office
spokeswoman said.

"In general the public should not expect any visible change in our security
measures."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Omni centre attack victim tells of stiletto torture terror

BYLINE: IAN SWANSON

LENGTH: 414 words



HIGHLIGHT: A TEENAGE girl who was stripped, beaten and tortured by other
youngsters in a multi-storey car park has spoken for the first time of how she
thought she was going to die.


· One of the teenage girls involved in the attack is taken into Edinburgh Crown
Court after being sentenced

Emma Angus, 16, who waived her anonymity to tell of the ordeal, described how
her clothes were torn off and she was hit with stiletto heels and metal signs by
two girls as a boy filmed the violence and later posted it on the internet.

She and her two female attackers were just 14 when the sustained assault took
place in January last year in the car park of the Omni centre.

She said: "For a full 45 minutes I was subjected to the most horrific, brutal
torture. The worst bit was being stripped naked. They set my clothes on fire.

"By the end of it all I honestly thought I was going to die."

At the time of the attack, Emma was in foster care after her parents separated
and her mother turned to drink.

She had gone to a youth club in the Grassmarket and later with a girl gang to
the Omni centre, where the gang leader was thrown out for being abusive to
staff.

They ended up in the basement of the centre's car park. The violence began after
the gang leader accused Emma of kissing a boy she fancied.

Emma said: "It wasn't true. This girl just wanted to fight. They'd all been
drinking cider and she was looking for trouble.

"I could either run away or stay and take what was coming to me - but I knew
that if I ran I would get it even worse because I was in for it either way.

"At first the girl attacked me on her own, pulling me down by the hair and
punching me.

"I wanted to stay on my feet as long as possible but I soon ended up rolling on
the ground - and that's when the other two joined in.

"I was being hit with high-heeled shoes. They were ripping signs off the car
park to batter me with.

"At one point the boy said 'The f*****g little bitch has got blood on my shoes.
He then forced me to lick his shoes clean.

"And when I told them I needed the toilet they made me do it in front of them."

She said she had been slumped against a wall covered in blood and the boy, who
was 13, had said it was like ultra-violent film and computer game Resident Evil.
He also told her: "You're going six feet under".

The attack ended when some shoppers came into the car park. Although the adults
ignored Emma's cries for help, the gang ran off and Emma ran naked and bleeding
into the Omni centre.

She said: "I has tears streaming down my face and my hair was soaked in blood."

An ambulance took her to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary where she was kept in for
seven days.

"My head was like a basketball.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 128 words


By MIRROR REPORTER A YOUNG woman fought off an attacker early yesterday amid
fears a prowler may be targeting female students.

Gardai in Letterkenny, Co Donegal, said the assault took place near the town's
IT college, where a similar incident took place on September 14.

Women attending nightclubs have now been warned to ensure taxis carrying them
home drop them right at their accommodation and not some distance away. The
attack at 1.40am was carried out on a 20-year-old woman after she got out of a
cab and was walking in the Ashlawn area of the town.

She bravely fought off her assailant who remained silent throughout as he tried
to drag her off.

Garda Inspector Pat O'Donnell said: "There is a distinct possibility that the
attacker could have been linked to the IT."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 24, 2010 Friday 5:30 PM BST

IRISH-RELATED TERROR ATTACK 'STRONG POSSIBILITY'

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 842 words


An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a ``strong
possibility'', Home Secretary Theresa May said today as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: ``The director-general of the Security Service has informed me
that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

``Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.''

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time ``to encourage people to remain vigilant'', she said.

Mrs May added: ``We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

``The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

``I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity.''

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a ``persistent rise'' in ``activity and ambition'' by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented ``a real and rising security challenge''.

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
``financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system''.

In a speech to the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr
Evans said while MI5's ``main effort'' remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

He acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had
not been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be ``low and
likely to decline further''.

``Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last hundred years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional
politics, a hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with
the so-called armed struggle,'' he said.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

At the same time, there were increasing signs of co-operation and co-ordination
between the various groups, deploying a greater variety of attack techniques
with improved weapons capability - including Semtex explosives, associated in
the past with the Provisional IRA which is now on ceasefire.

``While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent republican groups have traditionally done,'' he said.

But he said that, ultimately, the dissidents had done little to develop a
``credible political strategy'' the way the Provisionals and Sinn Fein did, and
many combined terrorism with organised crime, including trafficking drugs.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson said he was concerned.

The Scotland Yard boss said: ``Clearly we have got to be concerned by what
Jonathan Evans said.

``We have got to be concerned by the information that Jonathan Evans gave us.''

Earlier today, a Lithuanian judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a
suspected IRA dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in
the Baltic country.

Michael Campbell, the brother of a senior Real IRA figure in Ireland, was
arrested in January 2008 in an international sting operation when he allegedly
handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing as a weapons supplier.

Campbell is the brother of Liam Campbell, who helped found the Real IRA and,
according to Irish police, is the faction's overall commander today.

Campbell could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted of seeking weapons for
terrorist purposes.

The hearing was postponed because Campbell's lawyer, Ingrida Botyriene, was ill.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 24, 2010 Friday 4:09 PM BST

IRISH TERROR ATTACK A 'STRONG POSSIBILITY'

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 54 words


The threat level to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism has gone from
moderate to substantial, meaning an attack is a ``strong possibility'', Home
Secretary Theresa May said today.

It is the first time that this threat level has been published, the Home Office
said.

The threat from international terrorism remains severe.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Alert raised for terror attacks on Britain by Irish dissidents

BYLINE: Mark Casci

LENGTH: 545 words



HIGHLIGHT: AN attack on Britain by Irish-related terrorists is said to be a
strong possibility, as the country's threat warning was raised to "substantial".



Home Secretary Theresa May announced the increase in the threat assessment after
the head of the MI5 warned that dissident Irish republicans could attempt to
mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac). This remains
at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me he
has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.
Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The director general of the Security Service, Jonathan Evans, said last week
there had been a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Ulster Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after the Real IRA publicly threatened to target banks and
other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of "financing
Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

In a speech to the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr
Evans said while MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

He acknowledged the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had not
been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be "low and likely to
decline further".

Since the start of the year there had been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

Mr Evans added: "Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of
history over the last  hundred years, which shows that, whenever the main body
of Irish republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined
constitutional politics, a hard-line rejectionist group would fragment off and
continue with the so-called armed struggle."

Yesterday, a judge in Lithuania  judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a
suspected IRA dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in
the Baltic country.

Michael Campbell, the brother of a senior Real IRA figure in Ireland, was
arrested in January 2008 in an international sting operation when he allegedly
handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing as a weapons supplier.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

Russia: Ingush leader on presumable aims of terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz

LENGTH: 556 words


Text of report by Ingush government website

Ingush leader Yunus-Bek Yevkurov has met residents of North Ossetia-Alania's
Prigorodnyy District at the Ingush presidential administration. The main issue
discussed at the meeting was the implementation of earlier agreements and the
development of interethnic relations between the Ossetian and Ingush peoples.

"I would like to speak about the uneasy situation that has taken shape after the
terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz [on 9 September], Yevkurov said.

"According to the operational information at our hand, the organizers of the
terrorist act pursued three main goals: destabilization of the situation in the
region, putting Ossetian and Ingush peoples at odds with each other, and
triggering a large-scale interethnic conflict, which would create conditions for
a complete closure [of the borders] of the republic, lead to the deployment of
troops, and a large-scale hunt for criminals," Yevkurov said at the meeting.

The Ingush leader said that "the identity of the suicide bomber has not been
established yet and the whole so-called 'Ingush trace' in the aforementioned
crime is that the car [that was blown up at the central market in Vladikavkaz]
had been sold by an Ingush, which is something any other person could have done.
Apart from this, so far it is still unclear whether [the terrorist attack]
involved a self-explosion or the car was blown up through a remote control".
Yevkurov urged residents not to sell or rent their immovable or movable property
to unknown persons.

Commenting on the situation around [North Ossetia's predominantly
Ingush-populated] village of Kartsa [which was approached by 300 irate
Ossetians] following the terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz, Yevkurov said that
"the North Ossetian leadership maintained contacts with the Ingush authorities
and that they took all necessary measures for stabilizing the situation. Now,
there will be a telephone in each regular bus and administration, to which it
will be possible to phone in the event of a slightest provocation".

"I believe it is important to inform you that the situation around Prigorodnyy
District is under special control by the country's leadership. If anybody thinks
that it is possible that the scenario of the year 1990 will be repeated these
days, they are deeply mistaken," Yevkurov said.

Commenting on the remarks by South Ossetian official [Konstantin] Pukhayev, [who
proposed closing the North Ossetian-Ingush border following the Vladikavkaz
blast], the president said that "appropriate conclusions have been drawn in
regard to those, who aggravated the situation through their remarks".

"We should avoid encouraging the ranting of those, who have never gone farther
than the Chermenskiy police checkpoint [on the administrative line between North
Ossetia and Ingushetia] and, having no idea about the current problems facing
the Prigorodnyy District residents, are making hasty and populist statements,
aimed at gaining cheap political dividends, as a result of which ordinary people
suffer. We have been preventing and will be preventing such actions," Yevkurov
said in response to a question about criticism voiced against him over his trip
to Moscow [as published; probably implying Yevkurov's recent visit to South
Ossetia].

Source: Respublika Ingushetia website, Magas, in Russian 23 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Strong possibility of Irish terrorist attack, says MI5

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 490 words


THE risk of an attack by dissident Irish terrorists on mainland Britain was now
a "strong possibility", MI5 said yesterday, as it published the threat level for
the first time.

The threat on the mainland had increased from "moderate", meaning an attack was
possible but not likely, to "substantial," meaning it was a strong possibility.
In Northern Ireland the threat of attack was "severe," meaning an attack was
highly likely.

The warning system is based on a combination of intelligence about terrorists'
plans and aspirations, along with assessments of their activity and
capabilities. The Real IRA has threatened to target financial institutions in
the City, accusing them of "financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said yesterday the Government was publishing
the threat "in the interests of transparency and to encourage people to remain
vigilant". "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from
terrorism is real and serious," she said.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed. I would
urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and security
services in their continuing efforts to discover and disrupt terrorist
activity."

A spokesman for the Home Office said measures taken to deal with the threat from
al-Qaeda would also counter the threat from Irish dissident republican
terrorism.

"In general the public should not expect any visible change in our security
measures," he said.

The warnings about Irish terrorism operate separately to the system for
international terrorism, where the level was raised to "severe" in the wake of
the failed plot to blow up a plane with explosives hidden in a bomber's
underwear on Christmas Day.

Jonathan Evans, the director general of MI5, warned in a speech last week that
Britain faced a dual threat from increased activity in Northern Ireland and a
new generation of Islamists. He said there was now a "real and increasing
security challenge in Northern Ireland" and it was possible that dissidents
might seek to "extend their attacks" to mainland Britain.

Mr Evans said that in the past few years "insufficient weight" had been given to
the "pattern of history" that showed that "whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism had reached a political accommodation, a hardliner rejectionist
group would fragment off and continue with the so-called armed struggle."

He said there were "increasing signs of co-ordination and co-operation between
the groups", which include the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA and Oglaigh na
hEireann.

The Security Service has recently reinforced its presence in Northern Ireland
for the second time as it tried to cope with a network estimated at 600
dissidents.

MI5 took over running counter-terrorism operations in Northern Ireland from the
police in 2007. There has been a number of unsuccessful attacks in recent months
largely aimed at security personnel.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 25, 2010, Saturday

IRA ARE BACK;
'STRONG POSSIBILITY' OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words


AN ATTACK on Britain by Irish-linked terrorists is a "strong possibility", Home
Secretary Theresa May warned yesterday.

She made the grim prediction as the threat level was raised to "substantial".

It's the first time the risk posed by terrorism connected to the Troubles has
been published.

Experts say the danger is from rebel former members of the Provisional IRA.

May's warning comes after intelligence chiefs revealed last week they feared
dissident Irish republicans could unleash a wave of attacks on the mainland. May
said: "Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

She said the assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was
published for the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant".

She added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from
terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed. I would
urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and security
services in their continuing efforts to discover, t rack and disrupt terrorist
activity."

Terrorism expert Professor Adrian Guelke, of Queen's University Belfast, said:
"Throughout 2009, there was seen to be an increase in recruitment.

"Their capacity is quite advanced, as they have recruited people who were former
provos. There is now concern that these groups have access to a team of
experts."

The Home Office said people should not expect any visible change in security
measures.

They explained that steps taken to deal with the international threat will also
counter the threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism.

MI5 director general Jonathan Evans said last week there had been a "persistent
rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern Ireland over
the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the provos at the height of the troubles, he said they still represented "a
real and rising security challenge".

Hardline danger

REBEL republican groups are growing in size and expertise, experts warn.

The fringe hardliners are violent ly opposed to the peace process and have
focused on launching sporadic attacks, primarily on the police.

Key figures in Northern Ireland concede that it only takes a handful of
dangerous individuals to inflict major casualties.

The murder of three security force members last year has been followed by other
attacks, plus near-misses where many deaths could have been caused.

The fringe groups include the Real IRA and the Continuity IRA.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSESSMENT: May OUTRAGE: An IRA bomb destroyed Manchester's Arndale
centre in 1996

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

Fears rise of terror attack

BYLINE: WESLEY JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 356 words


AN attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said yesterday as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Theresa Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed
me that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism
from moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

May Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and financial institutions, accusing them of "financing Britain's colonial
and capitalist system".

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Theresa May Security

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

May: Irish terror attack is now 'a strong possibility'

BYLINE: By Dan Townend

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 552  words


AN attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said last night as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism which remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish terrorism was published for the first
time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious. The balance we aim to strike is keeping
people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system". In a speech to the
Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr Evans said while
MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international terrorism, it had been
necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland to deal with the
heightened threat.

He acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had
not been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be "low and
likely to decline further".

"Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last 100 years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish republicanism
has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional politics, a
hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with the so-called
armed struggle, " he said.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson also said he was concerned.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning by Theresa May The 1996 attack on London's Docklands caused GBP
85m damage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

May: Irish terror attack is now 'a strong possibility'

BYLINE: By Dan Townend

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 468  words


AN attack on Britain by Irish terrorists is a strong possibility, Home Secretary
Theresa May said last night as the country's threat level was raised to
"substantial".

The threat assessment was increased after the head of MI5 warned that dissident
Irish republicans could be planning to mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on
the British mainland.

The level is still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism which remains at "severe", meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility."

She added that the assessment was published for the first time to encourage
people to remain vigilant.

"We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from terrorism is
real and serious, " she said.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of MI5, said last week that there had been
a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern
Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

Mr Evans said while MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets there by dissident republicans, compared
with just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

The last Real IRA bomb attack on London came in August 2001 when 45kg of
explosives were detonated in Ealing Broadway, west London, injuring seven
people.

Earlier that year a car bomb was detonated outside BBC Television Centre, also
in west London, injuring a Tube worker.

Irish terrorists last attacked a financial target in the capital in 1996 when
they exploded a bomb near South Quay station in London's Docklands. It killed
two people and caused GBP 85million worth of damage.

Three years earlier a massive bomb ripped through the City of London killing one
person, injuring 40, and causing GBP 350million worth of damage.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning by Theresa May
The 1996 attack on London's Docklands caused GBP 85m damage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

May: Irish terror attack is now 'a strong possibility'

BYLINE: Dan Townend

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 468 words


AN attack on Britain by Irish terrorists is a strong possibility, Home Secretary
Theresa May said last night as the country's threat level was raised to
"substantial".

The threat assessment was increased after the head of MI5 warned that dissident
Irish republicans could be planning to mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on
the British mainland.

The level is still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism which remains at "severe", meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director- general of the Security Service has informed me
that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irishrelated terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility."

She added that the assessment was published for the fi rst time to encourage
people to remain vigilant.

"We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from terrorism is
real and serious," she said.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

Jonathan Evans, the director- general of MI5, said last week that there had been
a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern
Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other fi nancial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"fi nancing Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

Mr Evans said while MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets there by dissident republicans, compared
with just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

The last Real IRA bomb attack on London came in August 2001 when 45kg of
explosives were detonated in Ealing Broadway, west London, injuring seven
people.

Earlier that year a car bomb was detonated outside BBC Television Centre, also
in west London, injuring a Tube worker.

Irish terrorists last attacked a fi nancial target in the capital in 1996 when
they exploded a bomb near South Quay Station in London's Docklands. It killed
two people and caused £85million worth of damage.

Three years earlier a massive bomb ripped through the City of London killing one
person, injuring 40, and causing £350million worth of damage.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 1996 attack on London's Docklands caused £85m damage
Warning by Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

May: Irish terror attack is now 'a strong possibility'

BYLINE: Dan Townend

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words


AN attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said last night as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism which remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Vigilant Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has
informed me that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related
terrorism from moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong
possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups." The assessment of the risk posed by Irish
terrorism was published for the first time "to encourage people to remain
vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said. Jonathan Evans, the
director-general of the Security Service, said last week there had been a
"persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern
Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system". In a speech to the
Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr Evans said while
MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international terrorism, it had been
necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland to deal with the
heightened threat.

He acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had
not been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be "low and
likely to decline further".

History "Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history
over the last 100 years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional
politics, a hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with
the so-called armed struggle," he said.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson also said he was concerned.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 1996 attack on London's Docklands caused £85m damage
Warning by Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

Terror threat - or innocent joke? Airport attack tweet 'was just banter and
craic': Betjeman 'friendly bombs' line quoted in court appeal Conviction was for
causing a 'menace' via Twitter

BYLINE: Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 831 words


He was a courting lover who ended up with a criminal conviction after saying on
Twitter he would blow an airport "sky high" if it wasn't reopened to let him fly
to see his new girlfriend in Northern Ireland.

Paul Chambers, a 27-year old trainee accountant from South Yorkshire, yesterday
launched a fightback against what is thought to be the UK's first criminal
conviction for the content of a tweet on the microblogging site.

He landed a £1,000 fine after the snow closed Robin Hood airport near Doncaster
in January as he planned a trip to see "Crazycolours," a Northern Irish girl he
had just met online, and he tweeted to his 690 followers: "Crap! Robin Hood
airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together
otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!"

A week later, he was arrested at work by five police officers, questioned for
eight hours, had his computers and phones seized and was subsequently charged
and convicted of causing a "menace" under the Communications Act 2003.

In an appeal at Doncaster crown court, his barrister, Stephen Ferguson, said
Chambers had been merely engaging in "banter and craic" and that far from having
menacing intent, his message was "a jest, a joke, a parody".

In an extraordinary day's evidence the court heard arguments ranging from the
fundamental right to the freedom of expression, to the emerging nuances of
Twitter etiquette and an often painstaking exposition of the basics of social
networking for the two magistrates and Judge Jacqueline Davies who were
presiding.

At one point the defence even appeared to ask the court if the criminal justice
system would treat Sir John Betjeman in the same way as Chambers if it was
considering his most famous verse. "Part of the importance of this case is that
if this tweet is somehow of menacing character, so would countless others from
the playground to Twitter users across society, day by day," said Ferguson. "To
misquote Betjeman: 'Come friendly bombs drop on Slough.' The point is an obvious
one."

The defence applied to the judge to rule out the prosecution case that the tweet
was "menacing" on the grounds it had not been sufficiently proved and there was
no intent on Chambers' part to cause menace. Throughout proceedings, Chambers
sat largely expressionless behind toughened glass panels with a security guard
beside him, only wincing slightly at the the continual repetition of his
offending tweet. He nodded when Ferguson told the judge simply: "The intention
was innocent."

On the other side of a glass barrier in the public gallery sat Crazycolours, the
pseudonym of the Northern Irish woman who only gave her name as Sarah, with whom
he had been planning to meet. "Young love did spring from these tweets and he is
now living in the same country as Crazycolours," the court was told.

Fresh evidence emerged which was not heard at the previous trial that the police
noted after Chambers was bailed "there is no evidence at this stage this is
anything other than a foolish comment posted on Twitter for only his close
friends to see". But the crown said the conviction should stand and presented
evidence that Chambers had sent direct messages to Crazycolours apparently on
the terrorist theme.

Caroline Wiggin, for the prosecution, said Chambers had earlier sent direct
messages to the woman in Northern Ireland as it appeared possible that the
airport might close. In one he wrote: "I was thinking if it does I have decided
to resort to terrorism." She argued that the context provided by such messages
strengthened the case that Chambers intended to cause menace.

Ferguson argued that Chambers's messages were obviously "hyperbolic banter" and
served to reinforce the fact that he was joking in the main message which he
sent to all his followers about blowing up the airport. "This (message) is
obviously facetious," he said. "There are at least three exclamation marks. The
first to add to the slightly naughty word 'crap'. The last two to the parody of
'to blow the airport sky high'." The court earlier heard that a senior airport
official had "determined (the message) was a non-credible threat" after it had
been found by Sean Duffield, an off-duty airport duty manager searching on-line
at home. Under cross-examination, Duffield, said the impact after he found
Chambers' message was "operationally nothing. It had no impact."

Chambers was not cross-examined, but the court heard extracts of his original
police interview. "Looking back it's daft now but that's my kind of humour,"
Chambers had said. "Not for one second did I think anyone would even look at it.
It was just a comment made on the back of the fact that the flight had been
grounded." The judge and magistrates retired to consider their ruling and said
the case would conclude a later date.

Captions:

Paul Chambers and Sarah or Crazycolours. Chambers was appealing against a £1,000
fine imposed for threatening on Twitter to blow Doncaster airport 'sky high'

Main photograph: Shaun Flannery/Alamy

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Irish terrorism threat increases;
Attack is a 'strong possibility'

BYLINE: EXAMINER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 273 words


AN ATTACK on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May claimed as the country's threat level
was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely. Mrs May said: "The
director-general of the Security Service has informed me that he has raised the
threat to G r e a t B r i t a i n f ro m Irish-related terrorism from moderate
to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgements are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ VIGILANT: Home secretary Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

Irish-related terror attack 'strong possibility'

LENGTH: 190  words


An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", the Home Secretary has said.

An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said as the country's threat level was
raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which remains at
severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2010 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

May Warns Of Irish Terror Attack Threat

SECTION: A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 410 words


Wesley Johnson

0191-201 6352

jnl.newsdesk@ncjmedia.co.uk

AN attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said last night as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which remains at
severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.
Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said. Jonathan Evans,
director-general of the Security Service, said last week there had been a
"persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern
Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

Mr Evans said while MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the threat.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Irish terrorist attack is now 'strong possibility';
WARNING: THREAT LEVEL NOW RAISED TO 'SUBSTANTIAL'

BYLINE: PA STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 377 words


An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said yesterday as the country's threat
level was raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which remains at
severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The directorgeneral of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed."

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the directorgeneral of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system". Mr Evans said it had been
necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland to deal with the
heightened threat.

"While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent republican groups have traditionally done," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2010 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Knife robber jailed for pharmacy terror attack;
Accused wore a long black and red wig, dark glasses and a 'tea-cosy'

BYLINE: Court Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words


A MAN who carried out a bizarre knifepoint robbery at a Lincoln pharmacy was
jailed for two-and-a-half years.

Balding Joe Byrne donned a long black and red wig, dark glasses and a "tea-cosy"
hat when he walked into the pharmacy in Monks Road in the middle of the
afternoon.

Byrne, who also wore blue surgical gloves, produced a large kitchen knife during
the raid.

Christopher Lowe, prosecuting, told Lincoln Crown Court that Byrne, who had been
on a four-day drink and drugs binge, brandished the knife towards staff member
Gavin Gallimore and demanded the drug diazepam.

"Mr Gallimore directed him to where the diazepam was on the shelf. He took a
number of boxes of drugs from the shelf and put them in his bag.

"Before leaving he told the staff he didn't want to hurt them."

Byrne was traced after police identified him from CCTV footage.

Empty boxes of diazepam were found at his home, along with latex gloves and a
collection of wigs.

Although he denied he was responsible when he was interviewed by police, he
later confessed and wrote a letter of apology to staff at the store.

Mr Lowe said staff at the store were badly affected by the incident.

Byrne, 28, of Laceby Street, Lincoln, pleading guilty to robbery on June 24. He
stole drugs including Diazepam, Nitrazepam and Zopiclone.

Judge Ebraham Mooncey told Byrne he had no option but to send him to jail.

The judge said: "I have to bear in mind the fear you instilled in the staff. I
have to pass a sentence that will punish you."

Mark Watson, in mitigation, said Byrne had psychiatric problems and acted out of
desperation.

"This came off the back of a four-day binge of drugs and alcohol," he said.

He said that since being remanded into custody Byrne has been prescribed
methadone and is clean of illicit drugs.

Mr Watson said: "He is articulate and intelligent. He fully appreciates the
horror of what he did. The remorse he has shown is genuine."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN PRISON: Joe Byrne had been on a four-day drink and drugs binge when
he brandished a knife towards pharmacy staff and demanded the drug diazepam.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2010 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Irish terrorist attack warning;
World&National

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 277 words


AN attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May warned last night.

The country's threat level was raised to substantial after the head of the MI5
warned that dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of
terrorist attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.
"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups." The assessment of the risk posed by
Irish-related terrorism was published for the first time "to encourage people to
remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious. "The balance we aim to strike is keeping
people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity." The public should not expect any visible change in security
measures, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2010 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 25, 2010 Saturday 3:02 AM BST

'STRONG POSSIBILITY' OF IRISH-RELATED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2165 words


An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a ``strong
possibility'', Home Secretary Theresa May said as the country's threat level was
raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: ``The director-general of the Security Service has informed me
that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

``Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.''

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time ``to encourage people to remain vigilant'', she said.

Mrs May added: ``We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

``The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

``I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity.''

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a ``persistent rise'' in ``activity and ambition'' by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented ``a real and rising security challenge''.

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
``financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system''.

In a speech to the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr
Evans said while MI5's ``main effort'' remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

He acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had
not been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be ``low and
likely to decline further''.

``Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last hundred years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional
politics, a hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with
the so-called armed struggle,'' he said.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

At the same time, there were increasing signs of co-operation and co-ordination
between the various groups, deploying a greater variety of attack techniques
with improved weapons capability - including Semtex explosives, associated in
the past with the Provisional IRA which is now on ceasefire.

``While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent republican groups have traditionally done,'' he said.

But he said that, ultimately, the dissidents had done little to develop a
``credible political strategy'' the way the Provisionals and Sinn Fein did, and
many combined terrorism with organised crime, including trafficking drugs.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson said he was concerned.

The Scotland Yard boss said: ``Clearly we have got to be concerned by what
Jonathan Evans said.

``We have got to be concerned by the information that Jonathan Evans gave us.''

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, a former Army officer who served in Northern Ireland,
told BBC2's Newsnight why he thought the threat level was raised.

He said: ``The security forces will have seen either the movement of personnel,
or the movement of equipment - weaponry, probably explosives in this case - the
hi-jacking of vehicles and the preparation of vehicles, or probably a
combination of two or more of those things. That will have caused them to change
the threat level.''

And he repeated claims the dissidents were seeking to attack political party
conferences, saying: ``For several months now it's become clear to me, from the
people I have been talking to who are comrades with whom I served in the past in
Northern Ireland, that the various dissident elements wanted to be active
particularly during August in order to have a platform during the party
political conference season which now is upon us.''

Shadow Northern Ireland secretary Shaun Woodward described yesterday's
announcement as a ``realistic assessment of the current security situation''.

He said: ``However serious the threat posed to Great Britain, we should
nonetheless recognise that the peace process has changed Northern Ireland
forever.

``Now our task is to ensure that those who wish to use violence to destroy not
only the politics, but the peace, will never succeed.''

Earlier yesterday, a Lithuanian judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a
suspected IRA dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in
the Baltic country.

Michael Campbell, the brother of a senior Real IRA figure in Ireland, was
arrested in January 2008 in an international sting operation when he allegedly
handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing as a weapons supplier.

Campbell is the brother of Liam Campbell, who helped found the Real IRA and,
according to Irish police, is the faction's overall commander today.

Campbell could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted of seeking weapons for
terrorist purposes.

The hearing was postponed because Campbell's lawyer, Ingrida Botyriene, was ill.

Shadow Northern Ireland secretary Shaun Woodward said: ``Today's announcement is
a realistic assessment of the current security situation.

``However serious the threat posed to Great Britain, we should nonetheless
recognise that the peace process has changed Northern Ireland forever.

``Now our task is to ensure that those who wish to use violence to destroy not
only the politics, but the peace, will never succeed.''

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, a former Army officer who served in Northern Ireland,
told BBC2's Newsnight why he thought the threat level was raised.

He said: ``The security forces will have seen either the movement of personnel,
or the movement of equipment - weaponry, probably explosives in this case - the
hi-jacking of vehicles and the preparation of vehicles, or probably a
combination of two or more of those things. That will have caused them to change
the threat level.''

And he repeated claims the dissidents were seeking to attack political party
conferences, saying: ``For several months now it's become clear to me, from the
people I have been talking to who are comrades with whom I served in the past in
Northern Ireland, that the various dissident elements wanted to be active
particularly during August in order to have a platform during the party
political conference season which now is upon us.''

The head of MI5 warned last week that dissident Irish republicans could attempt
to mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on the British mainland.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said there had
been a ``persistent rise'' in ``activity and ambition'' by dissident groups in
Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented ``a real and rising security challenge''.

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
``financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system''.

In a speech to the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr
Evans said while MI5's ``main effort'' remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday, Sir Paul
Stephenson said he was concerned.

The Scotland Yard boss said: ``Clearly we have got to be concerned by what
Jonathan Evans said.

``We have got to be concerned by the information that Jonathan Evans gave us.''

In his speech, Mr Evans acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by
dissident republicans had not been foreseen, having been assumed just three
years ago to be ``low and likely to decline further''.

``Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last hundred years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional
politics, a hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with
the so- called 'armed struggle','' he said.

Since the start of the year, however, there had been more than 30 attacks or
attempted attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans,
compared with just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

At the same time, there were increasing signs of co-operation and co-ordination
between the various groups, deploying a greater variety of attack techniques
with improved weapons capability - including Semtex explosives associated in the
past with the Provisional IRA who are now on ceasefire.

``While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent republican groups have traditionally done,'' he said.

But he said that, ultimately, the dissidents had done little to develop a
``credible political strategy'' the way the Provisionals and Sinn Fein did, and
many combined terrorism with organised crime, including trafficking drugs.

Earlier today, a Lithuanian judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a
suspected IRA dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in
the Baltic country.

Michael Campbell, the brother of a senior Real IRA figure in Ireland, was
arrested in January 2008 in an international sting operation when he allegedly
handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing as a weapons supplier.

Campbell is the brother of Liam Campbell, who helped found the Real IRA and,
according to Irish police, is the faction's overall commander today.

Campbell could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted of seeking weapons for
terrorist purposes.

The hearing was postponed because Campbell's lawyer, Ingrida Botyriene, was ill.

A spokesman for the Police Federation in Northern Ireland said: ``It confirms
the predictions of the chairman, Terry Spence, that this threat would move
beyond Northern Ireland.

``The chairman is on the record as having pointed out that the terrorist threat
in Northern Ireland historically ends up going across to Great Britain to attack
the political, economic and infrastructural targets there because of the
political impact it can make.''

A series of attacks on members of the security forces in Northern Ireland have
failed in recent months. But two soldiers and a policeman have been shot dead
and there were attacks on police stations.

Northern Ireland First Minister Peter Robinson said dissident republicans had no
widespread support.

``The continued existence of such groups is in direct defiance of the wishes of
the people of Northern Ireland who have expressed clearly their desire for peace
and stability,'' he said.

``It is a worrying sign that the intelligence services have upgraded the threat
level, which underlines the need for adequate police resources to tackle this
threat and stamp it out completely.''

Nationalist SDLP leader Margaret Ritchie claimed MI5 was not on top of the
threat.

``The threat on this side of the Irish Sea is far too severe for us to leave it
to unaccountable agencies with a shady past in the north.

``Our representative, accountable policing service is not only the greatest
single success of the peace process, it is also our greatest asset in the fight
against violent groups.

``We have to mobilise the people of this island in support of their policing
services, supplying hard information which can be turned into evidence. That is
not a job which MI5 can do.''

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 25, 2010 Saturday 3:02 AM BST

'STRONG POSSIBILITY' OF IRISH-RELATED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1066 words


An attack on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a ``strong
possibility'', Home Secretary Theresa May said as the country's threat level was
raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: ``The director-general of the Security Service has informed me
that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

``Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.''

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time ``to encourage people to remain vigilant'', she said.

Mrs May added: ``We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious.

``The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

``I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity.''

The public should not expect any visible change in security measures as steps
taken to deal with the international threat will also counter the threat from
Irish dissident republican terrorism, the Home Office said.

Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security Service, said last week
there had been a ``persistent rise'' in ``activity and ambition'' by dissident
groups in Northern Ireland over the past three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented ``a real and rising security challenge''.

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
``financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system''.

In a speech to the Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr
Evans said while MI5's ``main effort'' remained focused on international
terrorism, it had been necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland
to deal with the heightened threat.

He acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by dissident republicans had
not been foreseen, having been assumed just three years ago to be ``low and
likely to decline further''.

``Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last hundred years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish
republicanism has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional
politics, a hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with
the so-called armed struggle,'' he said.

Since the start of the year there have been more than 30 attacks or attempted
attacks on national security targets by dissident republicans, compared with
just over 20 for the whole of last year, he said.

At the same time, there were increasing signs of co-operation and co-ordination
between the various groups, deploying a greater variety of attack techniques
with improved weapons capability - including Semtex explosives, associated in
the past with the Provisional IRA which is now on ceasefire.

``While at present the dissidents' campaign is focused on Northern Ireland, we
cannot exclude the possibility that they might seek to extend their attacks to
Great Britain as violent republican groups have traditionally done,'' he said.

But he said that, ultimately, the dissidents had done little to develop a
``credible political strategy'' the way the Provisionals and Sinn Fein did, and
many combined terrorism with organised crime, including trafficking drugs.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard yesterday,
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson said he was concerned.

The Scotland Yard boss said: ``Clearly we have got to be concerned by what
Jonathan Evans said.

``We have got to be concerned by the information that Jonathan Evans gave us.''

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, a former Army officer who served in Northern Ireland,
told BBC2's Newsnight why he thought the threat level was raised.

He said: ``The security forces will have seen either the movement of personnel,
or the movement of equipment - weaponry, probably explosives in this case - the
hi-jacking of vehicles and the preparation of vehicles, or probably a
combination of two or more of those things. That will have caused them to change
the threat level.''

And he repeated claims the dissidents were seeking to attack political party
conferences, saying: ``For several months now it's become clear to me, from the
people I have been talking to who are comrades with whom I served in the past in
Northern Ireland, that the various dissident elements wanted to be active
particularly during August in order to have a platform during the party
political conference season which now is upon us.''

Shadow Northern Ireland secretary Shaun Woodward described yesterday's
announcement as a ``realistic assessment of the current security situation''.

He said: ``However serious the threat posed to Great Britain, we should
nonetheless recognise that the peace process has changed Northern Ireland
forever.

``Now our task is to ensure that those who wish to use violence to destroy not
only the politics, but the peace, will never succeed.''

Earlier yesterday, a Lithuanian judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a
suspected IRA dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in
the Baltic country.

Michael Campbell, the brother of a senior Real IRA figure in Ireland, was
arrested in January 2008 in an international sting operation when he allegedly
handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing as a weapons supplier.

Campbell is the brother of Liam Campbell, who helped found the Real IRA and,
according to Irish police, is the faction's overall commander today.

Campbell could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted of seeking weapons for
terrorist purposes.

The hearing was postponed because Campbell's lawyer, Ingrida Botyriene, was ill.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

Home Office says Real IRA terror attack is now 'strong possibility'

BYLINE: Tom Peterkin

LENGTH: 401 words



HIGHLIGHT: The threat level to Britain from Irish-related terrorism has gone
from moderate to substantial, meaning an attack is a "strong possibility"', Home
Secretary Theresa May said last night.


It is the first time that this threat level has been published, the Home Office
said. The threat from international terrorism remains severe.

Mrs May said: "The Director-General of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgments are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.

"This is the first time we have published the Irish-related threat assessment to
Great Britain. This is in the interests of transparency and to encourage people
to remain vigilant.

"The first and most important duty of government is the protection and security
of the British people.

"We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK from terrorism is
real and serious.

"The balance we aim to strike is keeping people alert but not alarmed.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police and
security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The threat assessment was being published for the first time "to encourage
people to be alert to the increased threat from Irish-related terrorism", the
Home Office said.

But the threat is still lower than the overall threat level to the UK from
international terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre
(Jtac), which remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

"Measures taken to deal with the international terrorist threat will also
counter the threat from Irish dissident republican terrorism," a Home Office
spokeswoman said.

"In general the public should not expect any visible change in our security
measures."

Security experts believe that an IRA splinter group has access to explosives and
has members with experience of carrying out attacks such as the Canary Wharf
bomb in London in 1996.

The head of MI5 warned last week that dissident Irish republicans could attempt
to mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on the British mainland.

Yesterday a Lithuanian judge postponed a hearing in the trial of a suspected IRA
dissident accused of trying to purchase weapons and explosives in the Baltic
country.

Michael Campbell was arrested in January 2008 in an international sting
operation when he allegedly handed cash to an undercover Lithuanian agent posing
as a weapons supplier.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

An attack by Irish terrorists is 'strong possibility'

BYLINE: WESLEY JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 576 words


THEthreat level to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism was raised last
night from moderate to substantial, meaning an attack is a "strong possibility".
It is the first time that this threat level has been published, the Home Office
said.

The threat from international terrorism remains severe.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "The Director-General of the Security Service
has informed me that he has raised the threat to Great Britain from
Irish-related terrorism from moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is
a strong possibility.

"Judgements are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups.

"This is the first time we have published the Irish-related threat assessment to
Great Britain.

This is in the interests of transparency and to encourage people to remain
vigilant.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police."

The threat is lower than the overall threat level to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely. "Measures taken to deal
with the international terrorist threat will also counter the threat from Irish
dissident republican terrorism," a Home Office spokeswoman said.

"In general the public should not expect any visible change in our security
measures."

The head of MI5 warned last week that dissident Irish republicans could attempt
to mount a new wave of terrorist attacks on the British mainland.

Jonathan Evans, the directorgeneral of the Security Service, said there had been
a "persistent rise" in "activity and ambition" by dissident groups in Northern
Ireland in the last three years.

While they did not have the capacity to return to the levels of violence caused
by the Provisional IRA at the height of the Troubles, he said they still
represented "a real and rising security challenge".

His warning came after one group, the Real IRA, publicly threatened to target
banks and other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of
"financing Britain's colonial and capitalist system". In a speech to the
Worshipful Company of Security Professionals in the City, Mr Evans said while
MI5's "main effort" remained focused on international terrorism, it had been
necessary to reinforce its presence in Northern Ireland to deal with the
heightened threat.

Asked about the Irish terrorist threat at New Scotland Yard, Sir Paul Stephenson
said he was concerned.

The Scotland Yard boss said: "Clearly we have got to be concerned by what
Jonathan Evans said. We have got to be concerned by the information that
Jonathan Evans gave us."

In his speech, Mr Evans acknowledged that the recent rise in activity by
dissident republicans had not been foreseen, having been assumed just three
years ago to be "low and likely to decline further".

"Perhaps we were giving insufficient weight to the pattern of history over the
last 100 years, which shows that, whenever the main body of Irish republicanism
has reached a political accommodation and rejoined constitutional politics, a
hard-liner rejectionist group would fragment off and continue with the so-called
'armed struggle'," he said.

Since the start of the year, however, there have been more than 30 attacks or
attempted attacks on national security targets by dissident republican groups,
compared with just above 20 for the whole of last year.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 26, 2010 Sunday

Afghan observers urge USA to attack terrorist bases in Pakistan - TV

LENGTH: 293 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Noor TV on 25 September

[Presenter] US President Barack Obama has announced for the first time that
their [the USA's] negligence towards Afghanistan has prepared the ground for the
Taleban to revive and strengthen. He also emphasized that a strategy of
reduction and withdrawal would serve both countries. Meanwhile, a number of
observers believe that there are still a few opportunities for the USA to
correct its mistakes in Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] This is the first time the US president had acknowledged that
his country neglected Afghanistan and that the Taleban revived.

[Passage omitted: Obama's interview with BBC Persian]

Meanwhile, observers emphasized that the USA made a mistake when it trusted
Pakistan a great deal in dealing with Afghan issues instead of trusting the
Afghans. They also said that the USA should launch the war on terror in Pakistan
to rectify its mistakes.

[Ahmad Sayedi, captioned as political analyst, talking to camera] Now, if they
correct their mistakes and attack terrorist hotbeds and root out terrorists on
the other side of the border, it is good. However, fighting inside Afghanistan
has no meaning. The fight should be spread to where there are terrorist centres.

[Correspondent] Barack Obama made these remarks at a time when a new book
entitled "Obama's War" was due for publication next Monday. It is expected the
author of this book will disclose the details of how Obama tried to withdraw the
US forces from Afghanistan, because he is afraid the war may continue for years.

[Video shows Obama talking to a BBC Persian correspondent, US forces in
Afghanistan, an analyst talking to camera, a photo of the author of the book]

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 25 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                               September 26, 2010
                                  1st Edition

Irish-related terror attack 'is a strong possibility'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 265 words


AN ATTACK on Great Britain by Irish-related terrorists is a "strong
possibility", Home Secretary Theresa May said as the country's threat level was
raised to substantial.

The threat assessment was increased after the head of the MI5 warned that
dissident Irish republicans could attempt to mount a new wave of terrorist
attacks on the British mainland.

But it was still lower than the overall threat to the UK from international
terrorism, published by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), which
remains at severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Mrs May said: "The director-general of the Security Service has informed me that
he has raised the threat to Great Britain from Irish-related terrorism from
moderate to substantial, meaning that an attack is a strong possibility.

"Judgements are based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of terrorist groups."

The assessment of the risk posed by Irish-related terrorism was published for
the first time "to encourage people to remain vigilant", she said.

Mrs May added: "We have been consistent in stating that the threat to the UK
from terrorism is real and serious. The balance we aim to strike is keeping
people alert but not alarmed. I would urge the public to report any suspicious
activity to the police and security services in their continuing efforts to
discover... terrorist activity."

The warning came after the Real IRA publicly threatened to target banks and
other financial institutions in the City of London, accusing them of "financing
Britain's colonial and capitalist system".

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

Al Qaida plots terror attacks in UK

BYLINE: Alan Mccabe

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Auto crime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 47 words


TERRORISTS are planning commando-style raids in British cities, intelligence
sources claimed today.

The al Qaida plot involves teams seizing and murdering hostages - similar to the
attacks in Mumbai in 2008.

The group is also believed to be planning similar action in France and Germany.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 29, 2010

Al Qaida plots terror attacks in UK

BYLINE: Alan Mccabe

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Auto crime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 47 words


TERRORISTS are planning commando-style raids in British cities, intelligence
sources claimed today.

The al Qaida plot involves teams seizing and murdering hostages - similar to the
attacks in Mumbai in 2008.

The group is also believed to be planning similar action in France and Germany.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                        Copyright  Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Mumbai-style terrorist attack 'planned on UK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 322 words


Intelligence officials have intercepted a credible Islamist-linked terror plot
against Britain, it emerged today.

The threat is one of "a succession" of terror operations the country has been
dealing with over the past weeks, a government official said, although the UK's
terror alert status has not been raised from "severe".

The attack would have reportedly been similar to the deadly commando-style raids
in Mumbai, India, two years ago, with other European cities, in France and
Germany, also targeted.

Last night the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated following a bomb threat
called in from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert at the monument
in two weeks.

One UK government official told the Associated Press news agency: "There have
been a succession of terror operations we've been dealing with over recent weeks
but one to two that have preoccupied us. Still, it hasn't been to the degree
that we have raised the threat level."

Another British official would not confirm the plot was "al-Qaida inspired" but
told AP there was an "Islamist connection" and that the plots were in an early
stage. No other details were given.

A Home Office spokesman said it was unable to comment on security matters, but
confirmed the country's terror threat was unchanged.

Yesterday French police closed off surroundings to the Eiffel Tower, France's
most visited monument. Officers pulled police tape across a bridge leading over
the Seine River, and stood guard.

Bomb experts combed through the tower and found nothing unusual, Paris police
headquarters said.

Tourists were let back inside about two hours after the structure was emptied.

German officials denied yesterday they had intercepted threats, saying there had
been no change to the country's threat level.

More than 170 people were killed during a 24-hour co-ordinated attack on Mumbai,
also known as Bombay, by 10 gunmen in November 2008. It has been blamed on
Pakistani militants.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

SPECTRE OF TERROR HANGS OVER GAMES BRACED FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN MCEVOY OLYMPICS CORRESPONDENT REPORTS FROM DELHI

LENGTH: 666 words


DELHI awoke to a heavenly blue sky yesterday. The grey smear on the city's
ceiling had been wiped away and the English archers came out to play.

A dozen of them, with their ancient weapons and stiff upper lips, practised at
the Yamuna Sports Complex. It was a civilised reminder of what the Commonwealth
Games should be all about.

Yet the 19th edition of this festival is still besieged on every side. It is not
now a question of whether the Games will go ahead on Sunday, but whether they
will be ambushed

a security or safety disaster.

It must be said in defence of the Indian organisers that there are a multitude
of guards , 80,000 police and 20,000 paramilitaries , protecting the venues and
the immediate city. We are repeatedly stopped: the taxi at every hotel gate,
every guest at the lobby entrance, each official and journalist on the Games
site, every underground passenger. At the hotel, guards and sniffer dogs roam
the corridors.

But as India's leading counter- terrorist expert told Sportsmail yesterday, it
may not be enough to thwart a left-field incursion

Islamic fundamentalists.

'I'm quite sure all the terrorist attacks that can be anticipated will be met
with sufficient counter measures,' said Ajit Doval, former director of India's
Intelligence Bureau. 'But I don't know whether the existing measures will
counter unanticipated or new or unusual threats. I have apprehensions about
saying what form the new threat could take. It might give the terrorists ideas.

'The sort of thing I have in mind will not require significant manpower or
weapon-power. It is unlikely to be at a big event such as the opening ceremony.
No, it would be carried out

one or two people. It will be surreptitious. I know how devilish the
Pakistani-based Islamic radicalists, who are the only real threat to the Games,
can be.'

England, who along with the home nations are natural targets given Britain's
prominent role in fighting terror, declared themselves happy with the security
provisions. Just as they did with the athletes' living quarters after the filthy
conditions delayed their moving in.

But what of the other buildings? Reports claim that 16 structures have yet to be
retested since the Central Vigilance Commission, India's foremost watchdog,
found two months back that safety certificates had been forged to cover up
corner-cutting and the use of substandard materials.

The venues for squash, hockey, diving, boxing, badminton and the practice rugby
stadium, as well as roads leading to the main Nehru stadium, are believed to be
vulnerable.

In light of the concerns, England last night spoke to other nations to gauge
their feelings before saying they would not seek further reassurances unless
evidence of more faulty buildings emerges.

The Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) insist everything is in order, and the
teams appear to be taking them at their word.

Without wishing to be melodramatic, they will all look naive if a stadium, or a
road, gives way when full of spectators and athletes.

Read a newspaper or switch on the TV here and you see that the buck-passing over
these blighted Games is going on in Delhi faster than some athletes withdrew.
The misnomer that is the Organising Committee, under Suresh Kalmadi, and the
under-resourced CGF, under Mike Fennell, are to blame. The latter for not
imposing its will over the shoddiness of the former.

Talk to many an ordinary Indian and they feel let down

the government and

the corruption they know is rife. But as one newspaper columnist argued in the
Sunday Times of India this week: 'One thing is abundantly clear: we are nowhere
near being a developed country. The sooner we stop pretending to be a super
power, the better.

'There are many critical issues , poverty, hunger, literacy, drinking water , to
be addressed before we ever embark on an exercise like this.'

It was a thought at least worth pondering.

l South Africa's 800 metre world champion Caster Semenya, 19, will miss the
Games because of a back injury.

j.mcevoy@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Taxi driver's terror as attackers took his car

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 386 words


TWO men took a taxi driver's car after one of them attacked him and yanked him
from his seat, a court heard.

Ashfaq Ahmed was answering a call to the Cross Keys pub, in Front Street,
Arnold, when two men came out of the nearby Horse and Jockey.

One of the men, Lee Ashton, opened the driver's door, told him to get out and
punched him in the head several times, Nottingham Crown Court was told. The
impact of one of the blows was so severe that Mr Ahmed, who works for city taxi
firm DG Cars, could not see out of his right eye.

Ashton then grabbed the terrified driver by his coat and pulled him out of the
car at 10.40pm on April 1. The Toyota Avensis was found abandoned in Arnside
Road, Bestwood, and had a flat tyre and damage to the front.

"The front of the meter was pulled off and found in the road some distance
away," said Jim Metcalf, for the prosecution.

Ashton had been with Lewis Chantler that evening. Both men were identified from
CCTV at the pub where they had been. Blood in the taxi was linked by DNA as
coming from 20-year-old Chantler, of Andover Road, Bestwood Estate. In court,
both men pleaded guilty to aggravated vehicle taking.

Ashton, 23, of Heddington Gardens, Bestwood Park, admitted a separate charge of
assault causing actual bodily har m.

Describing the attack after the men were sentenced, Mr Ahmed said it had all
happened so suddenly and left him feeling terrified.

"I thought they may have some weapons. They were so aggressive."

Recorder Peter Joyce QC jailed Ashton for six months for aggravated vehicle
taking and 12 months concurrently for the assault and gave him a two-year
driving ban.

"Taxi drivers are particularly vulnerable," he said. The court was told, in
mitigation, that Ashton had little recollection of what happened and his plan
was simply to go home.

Chantler received a 12-month community order, with supervision from the
Probation Service. He must attend a Thinking Skills Programme. He also received
a two-year driving disqualification.

"I accept that you were the lesser part," said the judge.

Chantler had pleaded guilty to the allegation at the earliest opportunity.

"He was out," said Simon Eckersley, in mitigation. "He was heavily intoxicated.
He was drinking to deal with the recent death of his mother."

Taxi drivers are particularly vulnerable. Recorder Peter Joyce

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2010 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

TERROR ATTACK PLOT UNCOVERED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 175 words


SECURITY chiefs have uncovered a plot to mount a Mumbai-style terror attack in
Britain before Christmas. David Cameron has been warned the al-Qaeda plan was
under way but had not reached an advanced stage. It is also possible the
fanatics may target France or Ger- many. In 2008 a Pakistanbased al-Qaeda group
killed 165 people in more than ten coordinated gun and grenade attacks across
the Indian city of Mumbai. Nine attackers also died. The PM has been told US
spies picked up "internet chatter" suggesting another headline-grabbing outrage.
A British intelligence source said: "The Prime Minster has been made aware of a
possible Mumbai-style strike against the country. "Information was pinpointed
which gave rise to fears of a spectacular in the pipeline. "But it was unclear
whether the terrorists would definitely hit Britain or launch attacks in France
or Germany." One theory is that the terrorists may hit a number of European
cities simultaneously. Paris's Eiffel Tower was evacuated last night after a
terror alert.

s.hughes@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Thailand: 467 sites in Bangkok under close watch for possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 639 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 30 September

[Report by The Nation: "Police plan security operation in Bangkok"]

An intense 15-day security operation in Bangkok, beginning today, in response to
the frequent bomb-related incidents should be effective enough to prevent
further violence, police chief Pol General Wichean Potephosree said yesterday.

"There should be nothing serious for the public to worry about after police have
stepped up security measures. This will also mean police working harder and
staying one step ahead of the attackers," he said.

Police released a list of 467 locations that are under close watch for possible
terror attacks, including 164 under "special attention". The list mostly names
offices of the media, homes of important people and political figures on both
the government and opposition side, train terminals and fuel depots.

The ranking of media premises on the list was based on their stance towards
former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra. The Nation is 66th on the list while
Thai Rath, Daily News, and Naew Na rank 153, 154 and 155, respectively.

A joint security operation of the military and the Department of Special
Investigation has been launched after a series of analyses and forecasts by
intelligence agencies of regular bomb attacks and related incidents.

The DSI is now authorised to seek logistical support and help from troops in
situations that are beyond the hands of police, DSI secretary-general Tharit
Phengdit said yesterday.

Extra security has been posted around Parliament on a special request from
Speaker Chai Chidchob, who said the measures were in place despite his comment
that Parliament should not be a target for terror attacks.

Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said the state of emergency could possibly be
lifted in certain provinces by tomorrow, following a recommendation by the
government's Centre for Resolution of the Emergency Situation.

Asked to comment on a police report that five to six politicians were behind the
bomb-related incidents, he said the Cabinet was not directly briefed about the
matter. He vowed to take action against anyone found involved and implicated by
evidence.

Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban said Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwan
would take over the CRES director position from him while he was deactivated
temporarily to run in a by-election in his home province of Surat Thani. He also
declined to give interviews or speak publicly until after election day on
October 30, to avoid violating electoral laws.

Meanwhile, a hoax motorcycle bomb was found yesterday near a police box near
Khae Rai intersection in Nonthaburi province. The brown Yamaha RX-Z with an
Ayutthaya licence plate had a plastic bottle full of petrol as well as wiring
connected to a briefcase.

Bomb-disposal officers opened the briefcase and found it contained hand tools
and sparkplugs. The officers said it was a set-up meant to be a bomb scare. The
incident resulted in heavy traffic congestion after a few lanes of all nearby
roads were closed.

Meanwhile, after the surrender and confession of a suspect involved in the
weapons theft from an Army depot in Lop Buri, police found 13 rocket-propelled
grenades in a pond off a main highway in neighbouring Saraburi province.

Sgt-Major Prawit Cherngkheeree, who serves with the Army's Weapon Production
Centre based in Lop Buri, located the rockets for police divers to retrieve.
They have the same serial numbers as those reported stolen from the Army's
Ordnance Department storage.

Now, 29 of the 39 stolen rockets have been retrieved, with 10 still missing.
Yesterday's discovery of the 13 rockets contradicted earlier statements by the
government and security agencies that all 39 had been delivered to Burma's Wa
militants.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 30 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Austrian Interior Ministry sees "no acute danger of terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 157 words


Excerpt from report by Austrian newspaper Die Presse on 30 September

[Report by Anna Gabriel: "Europe in Fear of Terrorist Attacks"]

It should have been a devastating series of attacks. Terrorists trained in
Pakistan planned simultaneous commando attacks in big cities in Germany, France,
and Great Britain. Intelligence services just managed to prevent the attacks.
This is reported by British and US media. [passage omitted]

The Austrian Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and
Antiterrorism remains calm. There is "still no acute danger of terrorist
attacks" in Austria, there are "no indications pointing to attacks," Interior
Ministry spokesman Harald Noschiel assured Die Presse. Those responsible in the
countries in question must, however, sensitize and warn the people. Noschiel was
unable to assess what is behind the media reports on the prevented attacks.
[passage omitted]

Source: Die Presse, Vienna, in German 30 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Terrorism: Irish dissident attack on UK likely, Garda warns

BYLINE: Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 94 words


A terrorist attack on mainland Britain by dissident Irish republicans remains a
strong possibility, Ireland's top police officer said yesterday, as the Guardian
learned that UK banks have stepped up security in Northern Ireland. The Garda
commissioner, Fachtna Murphy, said that the threat posed by dissident
republicans had gone from moderate to substantial. Murphy said the intent had
always been there, but the capability within dissident groups to carry out
bombings had increased, as was evident by recent bomb attacks such as that on
Newry courthouse in February.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 1, 2010 Friday

Police link Stavropol bombs to earlier terror attacks in southern Russia

LENGTH: 305 words


The two improvised explosive devices (IED) that were rendered safe in Russia's
southern town of Stavropol on 30 September may have been planted by the same
persons who staged a cafe blast in Pyatigorsk on 17 August, RIA-Novosti news
agency reported on 1 October.

"This is indicated by the fact that the explosive devices were similar in
construction and the modi operandi were similar," the agency quoted a
top-ranking source in the North Caucasus Federal District law-enforcement
agencies as saying.

The report said that the dead man found in the car that contained one of the two
Stavropol IEDs, earlier identified as local resident Gennadiy Tolboyev, was a
taxi driver.

Speaking of the recent spate of terrorist attacks in Russia's southern regions,
the source said: "There are reasons to believe that all these terrorist attacks
were planned and staged by one the same terrorist group."

In a separate report on the same day RIA Novosti said that rain had prevented
the detonation of the car bomb in Stavropol.

The report said that the dead man found in the car had several gunshot wounds at
the back of his skull. The car contained a radio-controlled IED consisting of
about 60 kg of explosive mixture of ammonium nitrate and aluminium powder, a
nine-volt battery, wires and components of a car alarm, the agency said. Forty
metres away, another radio-controlled IED was found disguised as a heap of
litter.

The report quoted Zhannett Karpel, acting prosecutor of Stavropol's
Promyshlennyy district, as saying: "If the explosive device had detonated the
consequences would have been dire, but the rain prevented this from happening by
dampening the nitrate and the ammonia [as received]." She said the IED had been
laced with iron bolts and ball bearings.

Sources: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0541 and 0301 gmt 1 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 2, 2010 Saturday

Rising terror attacks may lead US to abandon Pakistan-Afghan supply route- paper

LENGTH: 1078 words


Text of report by Amir Mir headlined "US may abandon Pak-Afghan supply route"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 2 October

Lahore: Upset over mounting terror attacks targeting the Nato/ISAF supply trucks
travelling to Afghanistan via Pakistan, the high command of the US-led allied
forces stationed in Afghanistan has warned the decision makers in Islamabad that
their failure to prevent such assaults could force them to abandon Pakistan as
the major supply route to Afghanistan.

According to highly-informed diplomatic sources in Islamabad, the rising number
of terrorist attacks on the Nato-ISAF convoys, coupled with the sudden crisis
brought about by the recent floods in Pakistan, which have washed away several
key bridges and highways, have compelled the high ups of the US-led allied
forces to seek alternative supply routes for the international forces stationed
in Afghanistan.

Pakistan currently receives a huge reimbursement of economic and military
assistance from the United States for providing these logistical facilities to
the war-torn country. The Nato/ISAF convoys travelling through Pakistan are the
principal source of logistical support for the US-led allied forces in
Afghanistan. It being the shortest and most economical route, almost 75 per cent
of ammunition, vehicles, foodstuff and around 50 per cent of fuel for the
Nato-ISAF forces fighting against the Taliban militia in Afghanistan have been
transported via Pakistan for the last many years.

Pakistan has already blocked a key supply route for the US-led Nato force in
Afghanistan on September 30, 2010 after a cross-border helicopter attack in
which three Pakistani troops were killed. The move came a day after Pakistan
threatened to stop protecting the Nato/ISAF supply routes to Afghanistan after a
series of cross border aerial attacks by the Afghanistan based international
forces, killing several innocent Pakistanis, including three soldiers.

Around 100 Nato/ISAF vehicles have already been held up at Pakistan's border
with Afghanistan after these aerial attacks, following which 27 oil tankers
carrying fuel for the Nato/ISAF forces were set ablaze by Taliban-linked
militants in the Shikarpur district of the Sindh province on Thursday night. The
oil tankers have been torched a few weeks after Interior Minister Rehman Malik's
statement that the Nato/ISAF authorities were themselves responsible for the
safety of its supply lines, and that the Pakistan's federal and provincial
governments cannot provide security to the 4,000 trucks, which travel across
Pakistan daily.

Available figures show that in a short span of just one month (from 1 Sept to 30
Sept), as many as 22 Nato convoys were targeted by the militants, taking the
total tally of such assaults for the year 2010 to 55. The convoys that were
targeted included fuel tankers, each of which carries about 45,000 litres of
oil, as well as containers with unspecified quantities of logistic material for
the 120,000-strong Nato/ISAF forces, besides armoured transport for the allied
forces, which were either torched or looted by the militants.

Apart from tonnes of small commodities being transported everyday from Pakistan
to Afghanistan, choppers and Humvees were also transshipped via this route in
the past few years. However, diplomatic circles in the federal capital say,
having realized that the Pak-Afghan supply route was not safe now, the high
command of the allied forces has decided to warn Pakistan and accelerate efforts
to secure an agreement with some of the former Russian states to allow food and
military supplies to pass through the Central Asian Republics (CARs).

That the Americans have been trying to secure multiple supply routes for
transportation of food and military supplies to Afghanistan is not a secret.
Landlocked, mountainous, inundated by civil war and extreme underdeveloped
Afghanistan is surrounded by a clutch of hostile, apprehensive, barely
functioning sovereignties. But the allied forces stationed there require a
phenomenal mass of supplies from ammunition to toothbrushes, fuel, computers,
night-vision goggles, concertina wire et cetera, et cetera -- at the rate of
thousands of tons a day.

And the problem is that these trucks are 100 per cent civilian-operated, with no
military escorts, mainly because of the Pakistani sensitivities about its
sovereignty. Therefore, these trucks become an easy target of the militants,
prompting the Americans to seek alternative supply routes from countries, which
can also allow security men to guard them.

According to Islamabad-based diplomatic circles, the Americans are now trying to
secure three different alternative supply routes for Afghanistan. The first one
is the northern route, which starts in the Latvian port of Riga, the largest
all-weather harbour on the Baltic Sea, where container ships offload their cargo
onto Russian trains. The shipments roll south through Russia, then southeast
around the Caspian Sea through Kazakhstan and finally south through Uzbekistan
until they cross the frontier into north Afghanistan. The Russian train-lines
were built to supply Russia's own war in Afghanistan in the 1980s, and today
Moscow's cooperation is making them available for use by the US-led Nato/ISAF
forces in their own Afghan campaign.

The second one is the southern route, which transits the Caucuses, completely
bypassing Russia, from Georgia. Starting from the Black Sea port, Ponti, it
travels north to Azerbaijan and its port, Baku, where goods are loaded onto
ferries to cross the Caspian Sea. Landfall is Kazakhstan, where the goods are
carried by trucks to Uzbekistan and finally Afghanistan. While shorter than the
northern route, it is more expensive because of the on-and-off loading from
trucks to ferries and back onto trucks.

A third route, which is actually a spur of the northern route, bypasses
Uzbekistan and proceeds from Kazakhstan via Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, which has
a northeast border with Afghanistan. But this route is hampered by bad road
conditions in Tajikistan.

However, there are those in the diplomatic circles who believe that it would be
hard for the Americans to induce any of the above former Russian states because
many of their leaders believe that the American plans to get military supplies
via their countries could draw the former Soviet colony into the battle as
Cambodia was dragged into the Vietnam war.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 02 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           October 2, 2010, Saturday

TANKER ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words


GUNMEN sparked a massive blaze yesterday when they attacked at least 27 tankers
carrying fuel for Nato troops in Afghanistan.

The trucks were targeted in southern Pakistan on the day the country shut a
major border crossing. The closure was in protest at a Nato incursion which saw
three Pakistani soldiers killed.

No one was thought to have been killed or wounded in the tanker attack.

Police said the tankers were parked at a terminal when gunmen opened fire,
forcing people to flee before the vehicles were set ablaze.

The trucks were still alight several hours later.

The closure of the Torkham border crossing means Nato vehicles must use Chaman,
creating a bottleneck which terrorists can easily exploit.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLAMES: The tankers. Below, the aftermath

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 2, 2010 Saturday

Nigerian authorities 'were warned about terrorist attack on capital'

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 623 words

ABSTRACT

Government accused of failing to avert independence day bombing, despite
security warning from British intelligence

FULL TEXT

Questions have been raised about how much the Nigerian authorities knew about a
militant bomb attack that killed 12 people in the capital, Abuja.

It has emerged that British dignitaries pulled out of a parade yesterday,
marking the 50th anniversary of Nigeria's independence, after receiving a
warning of a security risk. The event was later hit by three car bombs.

The explosions late yesterday morning came an hour after the main militant group
in the oil-rich southern delta, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (Mend), threatened in an email to attack the festivities and warned people
to evacuate the area.

Nigerian newspaper This Day, citing sources in the presidency, said the
government had failed to avert the attack despite receiving a warning from
British intelligence.

"We tried our best, working on several locations, but somehow we couldn't foil
the plot," an unnamed senior minister told the paper.

The Queen's representative, the Duke of Gloucester, was scheduled to attend the
parade but did not, while former prime minister Gordon Brown cancelled his visit
to the country altogether.

Two car bombs detonated outside the justice ministry in Abuja. A third, smaller
explosion hit a venue at nearby Eagle Square, where President Goodluck Jonathan
sat with hundreds of Nigerian and foreign dignitaries. Police spokesman Jimoh
Moshoo said the blasts killed 12 people and injured 17.

Jonathan, who faces an election next year, left in an armoured limousine without
making a scheduled address. The celebrations, with army bands, dancing children
and air force displays, continued without him.

Mend has been fighting for years for a greater share of oil revenues from the
Niger delta, home to Africa's biggest oil and gas industry. The delta, which is
also home to the president, is impoverished and polluted by oil spills.

In its warning email, Mend said: "For 50 years, the people of the Niger delta
have had their land and resources stolen from them." The group has previously
operated primarily in the delta, hundreds of miles from the capital, although it
has struck offshore oil installations and in the country's commercial capital,
Lagos. Yesterday's attacks, the first on Abuja and in defiance of tight security
surrounding the celebrations marking Nigeria's independence from the UK, are the
militants' boldest yet.

Mend's attacks subsided after an amnesty deal last year provided cash for
fighters and the promise of job training. However, many ex-fighters say the
government has failed to fulfil its promises.

Elizabeth Donnelly, Africa programme manager at the foreign policy thinktank
Chatham House, said: "This latest violence has broken the amnesty, but the
questions will be which part of Mend has perpetrated the violence - it could be
men from the lower ranks who did not benefit from the deal - and whether or not
this is part of a bigger, longer-term strategy."

She added that few ordinary Nigerians would have sympathy with the terrorists,
but neither did many have confidence in the government.

Nigeria's oil production has climbed from about 1.6m barrels a day before the
amnesty to about 2m now. A return to violence could have implications for
Nigeria's economic growth.

Alan Cameron, of Business Monitor International, said the attacks risked
reinforcing foreign perceptions that Nigeria was at risk of slipping into
violence, necessitating military intervention, or even a coup. But he added: "In
our view, these fears are still a little overdone, although today's incident
will create huge pressure on Jonathan to show that he can keep the situation
under control."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday

Israel condemns Abuja attack, backs Nigeria's fight against terror

LENGTH: 154 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 3 October

[Report by Herb Keinon: "Israel 'Stands By' Nigerian People After Terror
Attacks"]

An ex-leader of a terrorist group that claimed responsibility for a dual car
bombing that killed 12 in Nigeria has been arrested in Johannesburg, a
spokeswoman for Nigeria's secret police said on Saturday. [passage omitted]

Israel issued a statement on Saturday night [2 October] strongly condemning
Friday's terrorist attack in Abuja that killed at least 12 people. "We stand by
and support the Nigerian people and the government of Nigeria in their fight
against terror," the statement read. The government of Israel "sends its
condolences to the families of innocent Nigerians that lost their lives in the
attack and wishes the injured speedy recovery." [passage omitted]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 3 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bin Laden told UK terrorists to launch attack

BYLINE: By James Murray and Neil Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 522  words


AL QAEDA sleepers in Britain were ordered to attack cities in a manual of death
drawn up on the express instructions of Osama Bin Laden, it was revealed
yesterday.

Security services fear there may be attempts to storm overnment buildings as the
54-page document details how to attack well-protected offices.

They know two British brothers in Pakistan have been actively engaged in the
plot, which would also target hotels and tourist spots in London.

Fighters are urged to hurl hand grenades into the ground floor of buildings
before rushing in with machine guns and other weapons.

The document, shown to the Sunday Express, carries a picture of one of Bin
Laden's followers in Arab head dress reaching for a rocket propelled grenade and
is titled "Guidance for street fighters".

It is written in Arabic and was produced by a central coordinating unit called
the Office of Mujahideen Services acting on the orders of Bin Laden, mastermind
of the 9/11 attacks on New York's Twin Towers in 2001. In matter-of-fact
language, it chillingly states: "The success of operations within buildings,
whether the unit is attacking or defending, or in the process of withdrawing,
depends on the ability of the individual to direct his fire on the enemy and
silence them.

"Therefore, the individual must choose the appropriate shooting location which
does not expose him to danger.

Fighting in cities is one of the most violent and difficult forms of combat.

"When entering a building or room, take care to avoid using door handles. Fire
short busts into the door then kick it down."

The document was placed on Al Qaeda websites eight days ago. To stretch the
police and emergency services to the limit, Bin Laden also ordered a series of
car bomb attacks.

The onslaught on Britain is timed to coincide with similar attacks in France and
Germany and would be similar to the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks, when nine Al
Qaedalinked gunmen stormed the city and killed 175 people in a three-day rampage
that also left more than 300 injured.

Fighters selected for the task must possess a high degree of physical fitness
and be trained in self-defence, says the terror guide. They should move quickly
between buildings, using obstructions and smoke to avoid enemy fire.

US counter terrorism experts confirmed yesterday that Bin Laden was behind the
plot. He has also issued a new nine-minute recording in which he calls for aid
to help flood victims in Pakistan.

If legitimate, the tape shows that the terrorist leader is in apparent good
health as his voice sounds strong and clear.

One of the two British brothers was apparently killed in a drone attack in
Pakistan earlier this month but the whereabouts of the other is not known.

They have been working at terror training camps with eight German-speaking
accomplices, who are also being monitored. Two US drone attacks killed 22
militants in Pakistan yesterday. There were 21 similar attacks in September, the
highest number in a single month on record.

Leaders of the plot have been advised to follow the example of insurgents in Ira
q by using Skygrabber compute r software to detect the presence of drone
aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 3, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Bin Laden told UK terrorists to launch attack

BYLINE: James Murray, Neil Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words


AL QAEDA sleepers in Britain were ordered to attack cities in a manual of death
drawn up on the express instructions of Osama Bin Laden, it was revealed
yesterday.

Security services fear there may be attempts to storm government buildings as
the 54-page document details how to attack well-protected offices.

They know two British brothers in Pakistan have been actively engaged in the
plot, which would also target hotels and tourist spots in London.

Fighters are urged to hurl hand grenades into the ground floor of buildings
before rushing in with machine guns and other weapons.

The document, shown to the Sunday Express, carries a picture of one of Bin
Laden's followers in Arab head dress reaching for a rocket propelled grenade and
is titled "Guidance for street fighters".

It is written in Arabic and was produced by a central coordinating unit called
the Office of Mujahideen Services acting on the orders of Bin Laden, mastermind
of the 9/11 attacks  on New York's Twin Towers in 2001.

In matter-of-fact language, it chillingly states: "The success of operations
within buildings, whether the unit is attacking or defending, or in the process
of withdrawing, depends on the ability of the individual to direct his f re on
the enemy and silence them.

"Therefore, the individual must choose the appropriate shooting location which
does not expose him to danger. Fighting in cities is one of the most violent and
difficult forms of combat.

"When entering a building or room, take care to avoid using door handles. Fire
short busts into the door then kick it down."

The document was placed on Al Qaeda websites eight days ago. To stretch the
police and emergency services to the limit, Bin Laden also ordered a series of
car bomb attacks.

The onslaught on Britain is timed to coincide with similar attacks in France and
Germany and would be similar to the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks, when nine Al
Qaedalinked gunmen stormed the city and killed 175 people in a three-day rampage
that also left more than 300 injured.

Fighters selected for the task must possess a high degree of physical fitness
and be trained in self-defence, says Moon, sun and tides the terror guide. They
should move quickly between buildings, using obstructions and smoke to avoid
enemy fire.

US counter terrorism experts confirmed yesterday that Bin Laden was behind the
plot. He has also issued a new nine-minute recording in which he calls for aid
to help flood victims in Pakistan.

If legitimate, the tape shows that the terrorist leader is in apparent good
health as his voice sounds strong and clear. Unsettled and windy and central
Spain east, some heavy thunder.

One of the two British brothers was apparently killed in a drone attack in
Pakistan earlier this month but the whereabouts of the other is not known.

They have been working at terror training camps with eight German-speaking
accomplices, who are also being monitored. Two US drone attacks killed 22
militants in Pakistan yesterday. There were 21 similar attacks in September, the
highest number in a single month on record.

Leaders of the plot have been advised to follow the example of insurgents in
Iraq by using Skygrabber computer software to detect the presence of drone
aircraft.

COMMENT: PAGE 36

Renewed fears may prompt US alert 13

US CITIZENS could be warned to stay away from high-profile sites in Europe, amid
renewed fears over terror attacks.

British and American officials are said to have been in contact over the
possibility of a broad alert.

Such a move could hit tourism because visitor sites and transport hubs are
likely to be highlighted as potential danger spots.

However, reports suggest any warning is likely to be vague. People will be urged
to exercise caution, rather than cancel travel plans altogether.

On Tuesday night the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated after a bomb threat was
received. It was the second such alert at the tower in two weeks.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday

Travellers in Europe given 'high risk' warning of terror attacks

BYLINE: Grace Hammond

LENGTH: 496 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE British and US governments upgraded their travel advice for
Europe yesterday following a series of terror alerts.


 The Foreign Office warned that there was a "high threat" of attacks in
countries including France and Germany, rather than the "general threat"
previously identified.

Meanwhile, the State Department issued guidance urging Americans to be vigilant
when visiting Europe, highlighting the "potential for terrorists to attack
public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure".

The heightened warnings came after British intelligence officials intercepted a
credible plot linked to terror group al-Qaida last week.

The planned attack would reportedly have been similar to the deadly
commando-style raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago, with cities in France and
Germany also targeted at the same time.

Pakistani and Western intelligence officials also said last night that dozens of
Muslim militants with European citizenship are believed to be hiding out in the
lawless tribal area of north western Pakistan, training for missions that could
include terror attacks in European capitals,

A senior official of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency said there
were believed to be "several dozen" people with European citizenship -many of
Pakistani origin - among the Islamic extremists operating in the lawless border
area.

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said foreigners in the area
also include Chechens, Uzbeks, Arabs and Turks, one of whom was a former F-16
pilot in the Turkish air force.

On Tuesday night the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated following a bomb threat
called in from a phone booth. It was the second such alert at the tower in two
weeks. A search by bomb experts found nothing unusual, and the tower was
reopened within hours.

On Friday, Sweden announced it has raised its threat alert to the highest level
ever because of an increased threat of terror attacks.

There has been speculation that terror leader Osama bin Laden could be
masterminding the latest plots personally.

The Foreign Office advice now states: "Like other large European countries, the
French/German authorities continue to consider that there is a high threat of
terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May urged the British public to report any suspicious
activity to help police and security services disrupt the terrorists.

"The first and most important duty of this government is the protection and
security of the British people and visitors to the UK," Mrs May said.

She added that the UK was working closely with the US on counter-terrorism, and
its new guidance was "consistent with our assessment".

The US State Department stopped short of recommending that citizens stay away
from high-profile sites in Europe - as was thought to have been under
consideration before.

Instead the department said: "US citizens should take every precaution to be
aware of their surroundings and to adopt appropriate safety measures to protect
themselves when travelling."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 4, 2010 Monday

Japanese citizens alerted for possible terror attacks in Europe

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, Oct. 4 Kyodo - The Foreign Ministry issued a travel alert Monday for
Japanese citizens living or travelling in Europe, warning them of possible
terrorist attacks by the al-Qaida network and other groups in the wake of
similar alerts issued by the US and British governments.

The alert called on Japanese nationals to exercise full caution at possible
terror attack targets, such as government facilities, public transport systems
and tourist spots.

According to the ministry, the United States has warned that al-Qaida and
affiliated organizations are planning terror attacks in Europe, while Britain
raised its four-stage terrorism threat alert to the highest level for France and
Germany.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0711 gmt 4 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 4, 2010 Monday

Islamist party chief says army failed to prevent terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 221 words


Text of report headlined "Army failed to prevent terror attacks: JI" published
by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 4 October

Murree, 3 October: Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) chief Syed Munawar Hassan here on Sunday
[3 October] said during the last two years Pakistan Army could not prevent
terrorist attacks in the country due to its involvement in 'others' war.

Speaking at an 'Ittehad-i-Ummat' conference at Ausia near here, he said even the
GHQ in Rawalpindi and Data Darbar Lahore came under terror attacks.

The JI chief said drone attacks on Pakistani territory continued with the
alleged consent of the government in which hundreds of innocent Pakistanis had
been killed.

He said allies of the government were equally responsible for the killing of
innocent people at the hands of Nanto forces.

He said 57 Muslim countries remained dependent on America for their interests.
The US and its stooge countries are after the blood of Muslims in Afghanistan
and Iraq, he added.

Mr Hassan said a highly qualified Muslim woman has been sentenced to 86 years
imprisonment in the US where no male was ever handed down such a long jail term.

He welcomed suspension of supply to Nato forces and the condemnation by the
government of Pakistan and the army of the Nato incursions into our territory.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 04 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

'High threat' of imminent terror attacks in Europe

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 280 words


AMERICANS in Europe, and those with plans to visit, were given a warning by the
US State Department yesterday to "take every precaution" because of the elevated
threat of terrorist attacks that could be aimed at popular tourist spots as well
as transportation hubs.

After the alert was issued yesterday morning in Washington DC, British Home
Secretary Theresa May said it was consistent with the British view of the
threat. The Foreign Office warned of a "high threat" of attacks in countries
including France and Germany.

The warnings come after several days of media reports, partly confirmed by
government sources, of new intelligence suggesting that attacks in Europe may be
imminent and may resemble the 2008 commando-style assaults in Mumbai, India,
that left more than 170 people dead.

No individual countries were singled out in the American alert. Officials noted
also that there were still no plans last night for the US administration to
issue a more grave travel "warning", which would explicitly encourage Americans
to stay away from European destinations. The purpose of the alert, they said,
was to ensure vigilance.

"US citizens are reminded of the potential for terrorists to attack public
transportation systems as well as other tourist infrastructure," the State
Department said.

"Terrorists have targeted and attacked subway and rail systems, as well as
aviation and maritime services."

Almost simultaneously yesterday, the Foreign Office upgraded its travel advisory
about France and Germany, telling Britons that the threat of terrorist actions
in those countries was considered high. Previously, the risk in Germany and
France had been pegged as "general" by London.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                  City Edition

New terror attack warning for EuropeAppeal: Theresa May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 323 words


TRAVELLERS faced a warning about possible terror attacks today after both the UK
and US governments issued new alerts.

The Foreign Office warned that there was a "high threat" of attacks in countries
including France and Germany, rather than the "general threat" previously
identified.

The US State Department urged Americans to be vigilant when visiting Europe,
highlighting the "potential for terrorists to attack public transportation
systems and other tourist infrastructure".

The heightened warnings came after British intelligence officials intercepted a
credible al Qaida-linked plot last week.

The planned attack would reportedly have been similar to the commando-style
raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago, with cities in France and Germany also
targeted at the same time.

Last Tuesday the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated following a bomb threat
called in from a telephone booth -- the second such alert at the tower in two
weeks. A search by bomb experts found nothing unusual and it was reopened within
hours.

The Foreign Office advice now states: "Like other large European countries, the
French/German authorities continue to consider that there is a high threat of
terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May urged the public to report any suspicious activity.

"We face a real and serious threat from terrorism. Our threat level remains at
severe -- meaning that an attack is highly likely. I would urge the public to
report any suspicious activity to the police in support of the efforts of our
security services to discover, track and disrupt terrorist activity," she said.

The State Department stopped short of recommending citizens stay away from
high-profile sites.

"US citizens should take every precaution to be aware of their surroundings and
to adopt appropriate safety measures to protect themselves when travelling," it
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      October 4, 2010 Monday 12:36 PM GMT

Japan issues travel warning as fear of terror attack in EU grows

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 641 words


Japan issued a travel alert for Europe today, joining Britain and the US in
warning of a possible terrorist attack by al-Qaida or other groups, but tourists
appeared to be taking the mounting warnings in their stride.

The Foreign Ministry in Tokyo urged Japanese citizens to be cautious when using
public transport or visiting popular tourist sites - issuing another blow to
Europe's tourism industry, which is just starting to recover from the global
financial crisis.

European authorities - especially in Britain, France and Germany - tightened
efforts to keep the public safe in the wake of warnings by officials that the
terrorism threat is high and extra vigilance is warranted.

Last week, a Pakistani intelligence official said eight Germans and two British
brothers were at the heart of an al-Qaida-linked terror plot against European
cities, but the plan was still in its early stages, with the suspects calling
acquaintances in Europe to plan logistics.

The official said the suspects were hiding in North Waziristan, a Pakistani
tribal region where militancy is rife and where the US has increased its
drone-fired missile strikes in recent weeks.

Security officials say terrorists may be plotting attacks in Europe with assault
weapons on public places, similar to the deadly 2008 shooting spree in Mumbai,
India. European officials have provided no details about specific targets.

Earlier today, French police arrested a 53-year-old man suspected of links to
bomb threats including one on Friday at a Paris railway hub, an official with
knowledge of the investigation said.

The suspect, who was not identified, was detained south-west of the capital for
possible links to a phone-in threat at the Saint-Lazare train station.

French authorities recorded nine bomb alerts in the capital in September,
including two at the Eiffel Tower - a threefold increase from a year earlier. No
explosives were found.

The US State Department alert on Sunday advised the hundreds of thousands of
American citizens living or travelling in Europe to take more precaution about
their personal security.

Britain's Foreign Office warned travellers to France and Germany that the terror
threat in the countries was high.

Business travellers and tourists arriving today at Paris' Charles de Gaulle
airport from the US said they were aware of the new warnings but weren't
changing their plans.

"I'm very happy to be here in France. I think we're very safe, and I trust the
French government to keep us safe," said James O'Connell, a 59-year-old from
Pittsburgh, arriving in Paris for a seven-day holiday.

Karen Bilh, a 39-year-old traveller, arrived in Paris from Cincinnati.

"We'll pay extra caution and if there's terror threats, we'll listen to police
in the area. We're excited about the trip," she said.

Travellers taking the Eurostar trains between London and Paris were similarly
determined not to let the warnings disrupt their plans.

Jennifer D'Antoni, who owns a clothing shop in Britain, was in Paris to
celebrate her birthday.

"I had a wonderful time and I'll come back again. In fact, I wish I was here for
another day because I didn't get to see everything. We are just going to be a
bit more cautious getting on the train," she said.

Yet Germans - authorities and citizens alike - were not convinced of the need
for concern.

"I think it is quite exaggerated," said Marian Sutholt, 25, of Berlin. "If you
worry all the time, you actually live up exactly to what the terrorists want. So
you should take things as they come and not worry too much. Hopefully nothing
will happen."

But John Gooley, a tourist from Portland, Oregon, was more cautious.

"Berlin is an amazing city, it's a beautiful city, but I'd probably recommend
staying in smaller cities," he said. "I am still happy to travel all throughout
Europe, but for right now I might avoid Paris, Berlin, London."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Britons 'at high risk of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 427  words


BRITONS who travel to France and Germany face a "high threat" of a terrorist
attack, it was revealed last night.

The Foreign Office raised its risk warning from a "general threat" alert after
the US upgraded travel advice to its own citizens.

The US State Department urged Americans in Europe to be vigilant, stressing the
"potential for terrorists to attack public transport and other tourist
infrastructure".

Last night it was claimed the risk of an attack on mainland Britain was also
higher, with intelligence officers fearing a commando-style attack, possibly on
a tourist location.

It is thought dozens of Al Qaeda operatives are being watched, according to
reports. One suggestion was that they may already have selected a target,
completed their surveillance and were waiting for the order to attack.

British intelligence officers at GCHQ, in Cheltenham, intercepted a credible Al
Qaeda-linked plot last week.

They picked up phone calls made by British citizens at terrorist training camps
in Pakistan and matched the voice prints to suspects in Rochdale and the
Midlands.

Security sources said the attack would be similar to commando-style raids in
Mumbai, India, two years ago with cities in France and Germany targeted.

Two brothers from Britain and eight German citizens were reported to be
involved, although Pakistani intelligence officials said the plan was still in
its early stages.

US intelligence officials believe Osama Bin Laden is the mastermind behind plots
to attack European cities.

On Tuesday, the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated after a bomb threat was made
from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert in two weeks. A search
found nothing.

On Friday Sweden said it had raised its alert level to its highest-ever while in
Naples police arrested a 24-year-old French citizen of North African origin last
being an Al Qaeda member.

French defence minister Herve Morin said: "The terrorist threat exists and could
hit us any moment."

The Foreign Office advice now reads: "The French German authorities continue to
consider that there is a high threat of terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "We face a real and serious threat from
terrorism. Our threat level remains at severe, meaning that an attack is highly
likely.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police."

Mrs May said Britain was working closely with the US on counter-terrorism
measures and its new guidance was "consistent with our assessment".

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britons 'at high risk of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 436  words


BRITONS who travel to France and Germany face a "high threat" of a terrorist
attack, it was revealed last night.

The Foreign Office raised its risk warning from a "general threat" alert after
the US upgraded travel advice to its own citizens.

The US State Department urged Americans in Europe to be vigilant, stressing the
"potential for terrorists to attack public transport and other tourist
infrastructure".

Both warnings came after British intelligence officers at GCHQ, in Cheltenham,
intercepted a credible Al Qaeda-linked plot last week.

They picked up phone calls made by British citizens at terrorist training camps
in Pakistan and matched the voice prints to suspects in Rochdale and the
Midlands.

Security sources said the planned attack would be similar to commando-style
raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago with cities in France and Germany also
targeted.

Two brothers from Britain and eight German citizens were reported to be
involved, although Pakistani intelligence officials said the plan was still in
its early stages.

US intelligence officials believe Osama Bin Laden is the mastermind behind plots
to attack European cities.

On Tuesday, the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated after a bomb threat was made
from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert in two weeks. A search
found nothing and it was re-opened within hours.

On Friday Sweden said it had raised its alert level to its highest-ever while in
Naples police arrested a 24-year-old French citizen of North African origin last
month who is suspected of being an Al Qaeda member.

French defence minister Herve Morin said: "The terrorist threat exists and could
hit us any moment."

The Foreign Office advice now reads: "The French/ German authorities continue to
consider that there is a high threat of terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "We face a real and serious threat from
terrorism. Our threat level remains at severe, meaning that an attack is highly
likely.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police."

Mrs May said Britain was working closely with the US on counter-terrorism
measures and its new guidance was "consistent with our assessment".

The US State Department stopped short of advising citizens to stay away from
high-profile sites in Europe.

"Current information suggests Al Qaeda and affiliated organisations continue to
plan terrorist attacks, " it said. "US citizens should take every precaution to
be aware of their surroundings and adopt appropriate safety measures when
travelling."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britons 'at high risk of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


BRITONS who travel to France and Germany face a "high threat" of a terrorist
attack, it was revealed last night.

The Foreign Office raised its risk warning from a "general threat" alert after
the US upgraded travel advice to its own citizens.

The US State Department urged Americans in Europe to be vigilant, stressing the
"potential for terrorists to attack public transport and other tourist
infrastructure". Temperatures in Centigrade Both warnings came after British
intelligence officers at GCHQ, in Cheltenham, intercepted a credible Al
Qaeda-linked plot last week.

They picked up phone calls made by British citizens at terrorist training camps
in Pakistan and matched the voiceprints to suspects in Rochdale and the
Midlands.

Security sources said the London/ Today's forecast: Portugal and the Balearic
planned attack would be similar to commando-style raids in Mumbai, India, two
years ago with cities in France and Germany also targeted.

Two brothers from Britain and eight German citizens were reported to be
involved, although Pakistani intelligence officials said the plan was still in
its early stages. US intelligence officials outlook: Dry and sunny and back in
Britain South East: Cloudy, with light North: believe Osama Bin Laden is the
mastermind behind plots to attack European cities.

On Tuesday, the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated after a bomb threat was made
from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert in two weeks. A search
found nothing and it was re-opened within hours.

On Friday Sweden said it had raised its alert level to its highest-ever while in
Naples police arrested a 24-year-old French citizen of North African origin last
month who is suspected of being an Al Qaeda member.

French defence minister Herve Morin said: "The terrorist threat exists and could
hit us any moment."

The Foreign Office advice now reads: "The French/German authorities continue to
consider that there is a high threat of terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places today Increasingly windy.
Sunny spells, frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "We face a real and serious threat from
terrorism. Our threat level remains at severe, meaning that an attack is highly
likely.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police."

Mrs May said Britain was working closely with the US on counter-terrorism
measures and its new guidance was "consistent with our assessment".

The US State Department stopped short of advising citizens to stay away from
high-profile sites in Europe.

"Current information suggests Al Qaeda and affiliated organisations continue to
plan terrorist attacks," it said. "US citizens should take every precaution to
be aware of their surroundings and adopt appropriate safety measures when
travelling."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Britons 'at high risk of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words


BRITONS who travel to France and Germany face a "high threat" of a terrorist
attack, it was revealed last night.

The Foreign Office raised its risk warning from a "general threat" alert after
the US upgraded travel advice to its own citizens.

The US State Department urged Americans in Europe to be vigilant, stressing the
"potential for terrorists to attack public transport and other tourist
infrastructure".

Both warnings came after British intelligence officers at GCHQ, in Cheltenham,
intercepted a credible Al Qaeda-linked plot last week.

They picked up phone calls made by British citizens at terrorist training camps
in Pakistan and matched the voiceprints to suspects in Rochdale and the
Midlands.

Security sources said the planned attack would be similar to commando-style
raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago with cities in France and Germany also
targeted.

Two brothers from Britain and eight German citizens were reported to be
involved, although Pakistani intelligence officials said the plan was still in
its early stages. US intelligence officials believe Osama Bin Laden is the
mastermind behind plots to attack European cities.

On Tuesday, the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated after a bomb threat was made
from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert in two weeks. A search
found nothing and it was re-opened within hours.

On Friday Sweden said it had raised its alert level to its highest-ever while in
Naples police arrested a 24-year-old French citizen of North African origin last
month who is suspected of being an Al Qaeda member.

French defence minister Herve Morin said: "The terrorist threat exists and could
hit us any moment."

The Foreign Office advice now reads: "The French/ German authorities continue to
consider that there is a high threat of terrorism.

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers."

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "We face a real and serious threat from
terrorism.

Our threat level remains at severe, meaning that an attack is highly likely.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police."

Mrs May said Britain was working closely with the US on counter-terrorism
measures and its new guidance was "consistent with our assessment".

The US State Department stopped short of advising citizens to stay away from
high-profile sites in Europe.

"Current information suggests Al Qaeda and affiliated organisations continue to
plan terrorist attacks," it said. "US citizens should take every precaution to
be aware of their surroundings and adopt appropriate safety measures when
travelling."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary Theresa May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GCHQ team foils terror attack plan

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 221 words


WORKERS at GCHQ helped foil a UK terror attack, according to reports.

National news reports yesterday said the Cheltenham intelligence-gathering
centre prevented a Mumbai-style attack on London.

Telephone calls made by British jihadists at a training camp in the tribal
borders of Pakistan were intercepted to identify the suspects.

Terrorist camps were located and American forces launched drone attacks.

Some of the terrorists plotting the attack were identified when GCHQ matched
their voices against a secret database, according to the reports.

News of the foiled plot came on the day the Foreign Office updated its travel
advice for Europe, warning of a "high threat" of attacks in countries including
France and Germany.

Previously, it had advised only of a "general threat", but officials said the
safety of Britons abroad was of major concer n.

The US government had earlier warned its citizens to be vigilant when in Europe
because of the threat of an unspecific al-Qaeda attack.

The warnings came one week after GCHQ was said to have intercepted the
Islamist-linked terror plot.

The attack would reportedly have been similar to the deadly commando-style raids
in Mumbai, India, two years ago when 174 people died.

A GCHQ spokesman said he was unable to confirm or deny the reports because it
"would put people's lives at risk".

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2010 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             October 4, 2010 Monday

GCHQ team foils terror attack plan

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words


Workers at GCHQ helped foil a UK terror attack, according to reports.

National news reports yesterday said the Cheltenham intelligence-gathering
centre prevented a Mumbai-style attack on London.

Calls made by British jihadists at a training camp in the tribal borders of
Pakistan were intercepted to identify the suspects.

Terrorist camps were located and American forces launched drone attacks.

Some of the terrorists plotting the attack were identified when GCHQ matched
their voices against a secret database, according to the reports.

News of the foiled plot came as the Foreign Office updated travel advice,
warning of a "high threat" of attacks in Europe including France and Germany.

The US government   warned its citizens to be vigilant when in Europe because of
the threat of an unspecific al-Qaeda attack.

The warnings came one week after GCHQ was said to have intercepted the
Islamist-linked terror plot.

The attack could  have been similar to the deadly commando-style raids in
Mumbai, India, two years ago when 174 people died.

A GCHQ spokesman said he was unable to confirm or deny the reports because he
said it "would put people's lives at risk".

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2010 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Terrorist attack warnings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 177 words


THE UK and US governments have upgraded their travel advice for Europe following
a series of terror alerts.

The Foreign Office warned that there was a "high threat" of attacks in countries
including France and Germany, rather than the "general threat" previously
identified.

Meanwhile, the State Department issued guidance urging Americans to be vigilant
when visiting Europe, highlighting the "potential for terrorists to attack
public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure".

The heightened warnings came after British intelligence officials intercepted a
credible al Qaida-linked plot last week.

The planned attack would reportedly have been similar to the deadly
commando-style raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago, with cities in France and
Germany also targeted at the same time.

On Tuesday night the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated following a bomb threat
called in from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert at the tower in
two weeks.

A search by bomb experts found nothing unusual, and it was reopened within
hours.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks warning;
The World In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 133 words


EUROPE: The UK and US governments have upgraded their travel advice for Europe
following a series of terror alerts.

The Foreign Office warned there was a "high threat" of attacks in countries
including France and Germany, rather than the "general threat" previously
identified.

Meanwhile, the State Department issued guidance urging Americans to be vigilant
when visiting Europe, highlighting the "potential for terrorists to attack
public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure".

The heightened warnings came after British intelligence officials intercepted a
credible al Qaida-linked plot last week.

The planned attack would reportedly have been similar to the deadly
commando-style raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago, with cities in France and
Germany also targeted at the same time.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2010 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Terror attacks alert;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


Britons were warned of a "high threat" of terror attacks in Europe as the
Government upgraded its travel alerts. The Foreign Office said there was high
potential for indiscriminate attacks. News, page 6

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GCHQ team foils terror attack plan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


Workers at GCHQ helped foil a UK terror attack, according to reports.

National news reports yesterday said the Cheltenham intelligence-gathering
centre prevented a Mumbai-style attack on London.

Calls made by British jihadists at a training camp in the tribal borders of
Pakistan were intercepted to identify the suspects.

Some of the terrorists plotting the attack were identified when GCHQ matched
their voices against a secret database.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Home Secretary backs US alert over terrorist attack

BYLINE: EVA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 402 words


Home Secretary Theresa May yesterday backed a US warning for its citizens to be
vigilant when visiting Europe in the wake of terrorism alerts.

Mrs May said the message was "consistent" with the UK's view of the threat that
currently exists.

She also urged the British public to report any suspicious activity as police
and security services try to disrupt terrorist activity. "The first and most
important duty of this Government is the protection and security of the British
people and visitors to the UK," Mrs May said.

"As we have consistently made clear, we face a real and serious threat from
terrorism.

Our threat level remains at severe - meaning that an attack is highly likely.

"We work closely with our international partners in countering terrorism and the
US advice is consistent with our assessment.

"I would urge the public to report any suspicious activity to the police in
support of the efforts of our security services to discover, track and disrupt
terrorist activity."

The advice issued by the State Department this afternoon stopped short of
recommending that citizens stay away from high-profile sites in Europe - as was
thought to have been under consideration before.

"Current information suggests that al-Qaeda and affiliated organisations
continue to plan terrorist attacks," the message said. "European governments
have taken action to guard against a terrorist attack and some have spoken
publicly about the heightened threat conditions."

It noted in particular "the potential for terrorists to attack public
transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure".

"US citizens should take every precaution to be aware of their surroundings and
to adopt appropriate safety measures to protect themselves when travelling," the
department said.

The warning comes after intelligence officials in Britain intercepted a credible
Islamist-linked terror plot last week. The planned attack would reportedly have
been similar to the deadly commando-style raids in Mumbai, India, two years ago,
with other European cities, in France and Germany, also targeted.

On Tuesday night the Eiffel Tower in Paris was evacuated following a bomb threat
called in from a telephone booth. It was the second such alert at the tower in
two weeks. A search by bomb experts found nothing unusual, and the tower was
reopened within hours.

'Threat level remains at severe - an attack is highly likely' Home Secretary
Theresa May

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

Arsonists who attacked West Bank mosque are terrorists, says Barak

BYLINE: Harriet Sherwood Gaza City

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 510 words


The perpetrators of an arson attack on a West Bank mosque in which copies of the
Qur'an and prayer mats were burned were last night described as terrorists by
Israel's defence minister, Ehud Barak.

Settlers were widely blamed for torching the mosque in the early hours of
yesterday morning as part of a "price tag" campaign of revenge attacks on
Palestinians to mark their opposition to Israeli government policy on West Bank
settlement expansion. Graffiti sprayed on the mosque in the village of Beit
Fajar, between Bethlehem and Hebron, included the words "price tag" and "mosques
we burn" as well as a Star of David, according to witnesses. It is the fourth
attack on a West Bank mosque since December.

Ali Sawabta, the head of the village committee, said six settlers arrived in the
village at 2.40am. "Fifteen Qur'an books have been burnt and the building is
drenched in smoke," he told the Ynet website. "It is effectively out of
commission." Villagers, who claimed the attackers came from the nearby
settlement of Gush Etzion, rushed to defend the mosque and scuffles broke out
which were broken up by Israeli soldiers.

The attack came amid US efforts to persuade the Israeli government to prolong
the freeze on settlement construction, which expired just over a week ago, to
keep alive talks on a deal to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The
Palestinian leadership has said it will walk out of negotiations without an
extension.

Israel's prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, has so far refused US inducements.
His rightwing coalition government has a powerful pro-settler element.

Barak, who has been involved in negotiations with the US, was swift to condemn
the attack. "Whoever did this is a terrorist in every sense of the word, and
intended to hurt the chances for peace and dialogue with the Palestinians," he
said. "This was a shameful act that besmirched the state of Israel and its
values." He ordered the security forces to find and arrest the perpetrators.
Army spokeswoman Lt-Col Avital Liebowitz said the attack was "a very serious
incident which we view with the utmost gravity". The Israeli military has been
accused in the past of not pursuing settler attacks on Palestinians with
sufficient rigour.

"The settlers' message is: terrorise the Palestinian people," Mohammad Hussein,
the grand mufti of Jerusalem, who inspected the damage, told Reuters. "Such
attacks will only embolden the Palestinian people and increase our determination
to achieve all of our rights."

Almost 500,000 Jews live in settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem,
which are illegal under international law. Four settlers were killed last month
in a drive-by shooting near Hebron on the eve of direct peace talks. Hamas said
its militants carried out that attack. Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar yesterday told
a meeting in Gaza City the negotiations were leading nowhere. "We believe in
resistance by all means to reach our goal," he said.

Captions:

A Palestinian with a burnt copy of the Qur'an after the attack on a West Bank
mosque Photograph: Abed al Hashlamoun/EPA

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

Security Council condemns deadly terrorist car bomb attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 271 words


October 4, 2010

The Security Council today condemned "in the strongest terms" Friday's deadly
terrorist car bombings in Abuja, Nigeria's capital, during celebrations marking
the 50th independence anniversary of Africa's most populous country."Terrorism
in all its forms and manifestations is criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of
its motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed," the 15-member
body said in a press statement, reiterating its determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the United
Nations Charter.



According to media reports, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
(MEND) claimed responsibility for the attack which killed a dozen people and
injured three dozen more.

The Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers
and sponsors of "these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice," and urged
all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and
relevant Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Nigerian
authorities in this regard.

It reminded States that they must ensure that measures taken to combat terrorism
comply with all obligations under international law, particularly international
human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

On Friday, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the attacks, assuring Nigeria
of unflinching UN support and solidarity as the country seeks to address the
challenges confronting it, particularly to consolidate the significant gains
made in promoting democratic governance and improving the welfare of all
Nigerians.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

ï»¿Terror over paving slab attack on bookies

BYLINE: John Scheerhout

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 152 words


ï»¿TERRIFIED betting shop staff were lucky to escape injury when masked robbers
hurled a paving slab through a security window.

Two masked men dressed in black burst into William Hill on Warrington Road,
Goose Green, Wigan. One threw the foot square slab through a perspex screen.
Shocked staff who could see what was about to happen stepped back as the screen
shattered and the slab landed in front of them. The robbers helped themselves to
cash from the till and fled.

Det Con Jon Quigley, of Wigan CID, said: â  I am appealing to anyone who may
have been in the area at the time of this robbery. It would have been an unusual
site, two men dressed all in black with balaclavas and carrying a concrete
paving slab. We need to find the men responsible for this robbery, so if anyone
has any information, please call us.â

Call police with information on 0161 856 5307 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

Iraqi Kurdistan security chief says Islamic militants plotting terror attacks

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Aswat al-Iraq news agency website

Sulaimaniyah/Aswat Al-Iraq: The Director of (Asayish) Security in northern
Iraq's Kurdistan Region on Wednesday [6 October] charged Ansar al-Islam with
"planning to undermine the region's security by carrying out terrorist
operations similar to those carried out last Wednesday in Qala Diza."

"The Asayish forces have uncovered information that the so-called Ansar al-Islam
group is planning to carry out terrorist acts aimed at undermining the security
of the Kurdistan Region, after the suicide operations carried out by one of its
members last week in Qala Diza, 131 km to the northwest of Sulaimaniyah
Province,"he said.

He urged citizens in the region to "be cautious and cooperate with the security
forces in Sulaimaniyah and other provinces of the region, in order to protect
the security and stability achieved in the region."

A suicide bomber had blown himself up on the main highway passing through Qala
Diza last Wednesday, Sept. 29, after being confronted by Asayish forces.

The blast left two Asayish men wounded.

Security forces in the Province said the suicide bomber was planning to blow
himself up among a Peshmerga (Kurdish armed forces), who were receiving their
salaries.

This suicide explosion is the first of its kind in Kurdistan in the past two
years, since a suicide bomber blew a car bomb in front of Sulaimaniyah Hotel in
Spring 2008, killing one of its guards and wounding several others.

Sulaimaniyah, the centre of the province carrying the same name, is 364 km to
the northeast of Baghdad.

Source: Aswat al-Iraq, Arbil, in English 0944 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

Foreign terrorist groups behind recent attacks on southern Russia - official

LENGTH: 120 words


The recent terrorist attacks in southern Russia were staged by international
terrorist organizations, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolay Patrushev
has said, as reported by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS on 6 October.

"As far as Russia is concerned, no-one is denying now that the threat is coming
from abroad. However, there was such sort of denial some time ago," he told
journalists earlier on that day, when asked who stood behind the recent spate of
attacks in Russia's southern regions.

The agency quoted Patrushev as saying that the terrorist threat to Russia was
primarily coming from Afghanistan, Pakistan and "a number of other countries".

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0915 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

Foreign terrorist groups behind recent attacks in south Russia - official (more)

LENGTH: 288 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Sochi, 6 October: International terrorist organizations were behind the recent
terrorist attacks in the south of Russia, [Russian] Security Council Secretary
Nikolay Patrushev has said.

"As far as Russia is concerned, no-one is denying now that the threat is coming
from abroad," Patrushev told journalists.

He said the threat of terrorism originated from Afghanistan, Pakistan and a
number of other countries.

Some time ago foreign colleagues denied that the threat came from abroad, he
said.

"You will remember that some time ago there was a denial, and now all agree that
one must counter jointly the threat of terrorism that exists, including in
Russia," Patrushev said.

He said that at the international conference [of high-ranking officials in
charge of security] in Sochi, the subject of terrorism was discussed in detail.
"We were given information about where terrorist training camps were located;
specific regions were named," Patrushev said.

He said that those taking part were of one opinion that these threats must be
countered jointly. "Unfortunately, not all countries are able to organize good
work, so international help is needed.

"Talking about the challenges of the 21st century, we should stress that
untraditional challenges are gaining strength, and so the current importance of
combating it is growing," he said.

Patrushev also said that "on the big issues, our views coincide (with foreign
partners - Interfax) about what threats and challenges exist". "On this basis, a
mechanism of how to fight it can be worked out, and that is very important,"
Patrushev said. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1001 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

Killer of French employee detained, Britons survived terrorist attack

LENGTH: 214 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

SANA'A, Oct.06 (Saba)- An official security source in the Interior Ministry said
Wednesday that the security services arrested the gunman, who killed a French
employee working at the Austrian energy firm (OMV) in the capital Sana'a. The
source told Saba that the criminal, named Hisham Mohmed Ahmed Asem, is working
at the same firm as a security man of a private security guards company.
Security agencies are investigating the offender to know his motives, the source
added. On the other hand, the source said that a car of the British embassy in
Sana'a, which was carrying four British employees, was attacked with a
rocket-propelled grenade that hit the back of the care while moving near the
thirty-round in the capital Sana'a. Those who were inside the care were survived
this terrorist attack except a minor injury suffered by one of them in addition
to wounding a women and a child were walking in the street near the care at the
moment of the incident, the source added. "The security agencies continue their
investigations to know and arrest the perpetrators of this terrorist crime that
bore the hallmarks of al-Qaeda" the source said.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 1610 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

FRANCE WARNS THAT TERRORIST ATTACK IN UK IS 'HIGHLY LIKELY'

LENGTH: 413 words


MARTIN BENTHAM

FRENCH citizens have been given their strongest warning for years about the
dangers of a terrorist attack in Britain in an official alert which will deal a
blow to London's tourist industry.

A notice posted on France's foreign ministry website said tourists should be
"extremely vigilant" on public transport and at busy tourist sites and that an
attack was "highly likely". The warning follows a similar alert issued by the US
State Department about the heightened risk of terrorism in Europe and reports
that an al Qaeda plot to carry out commando-style attacks in cities such as
London, Paris and Berlin had been disrupted.

One of those alleged to have been involved in the plot is understood to have
been a British national, Abdul Jabbar, who was killed by a US drone strike in
Pakistan last month.

A security source quoted in a BBC Newsnight report last night said he was being
groomed by Islamist extremists in Pakistan to lead a new terror group called "al
Qaeda in Great Britain" which would have tried to carry out the attacks.

In its warning, the French foreign ministry stops short of telling its citizens
not to travel to the UK, but suggests that they will face significant dangers if
they do so.

"The British authorities estimate that the level of terrorist threat is very
high in the UK and that the risk of a terrorist attack is highly likely," the
posting states. "It is recommended to be extremely vigilant on public transport
and the most popular tourist sites.'

The US government travel advice issued at the weekend warned that al Qaeda
"continues to plan terrorist attacks" and that "a variety of means and weapons"
might be used to "target both official and private interests".

It said that transport systems and tourist sites could be among potential
targets and "US citizens should take every precaution to be aware of their
surroundings and to adopt appropriate safety measures to protect themselves when
travelling" in Europe. The official threat level in Britain remains unchanged at
"severe" Ñ meaning that an attack is judged to be highly likely. The Foreign
Office has issued a travel alert to UK citizens about a heightened risk of a
terror attack in France and Germany.

Flight comparison website Skyscanner says the number of Americans carrying out
internet searches for trips to Britain has fallen by 35 per cent in the past
week. Searches about travel to Sweden were down 47 per cent, France down 42 per
cent and Germany down 40 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Macedonian Interior Ministry rejects possibility of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Nova Makedonija on 6 October

[Report by "G.T.": "We Are Far From the Eiffel Tower"]

Neither is Macedonia threatened by a terrorist attack, nor is our state involved
in any way in the plots mentioned throughout Europe, Interior Ministry officials
say following the increasingly frequent world media reports that Al-Qa'idah has
been plotting attacks against civilians in European capitals, primarily Paris
(the Eiffel Tower and the Notre Dame Cathedral) and Berlin (the major railway
station and the Telecommunication Tower). The Macedonian citizens should have no
fears when at home, nor do they need to cancel their trips to Western Europe,
because the Foreign Ministry has not issued a travel advisory as the US and
Japanese ministries have.

"We have been monitoring the situation, and we have been gathering data from the
other Macedonian and foreign services. According to this, there are no serious
threats of terrorist attacks against our state yet. There is no information that
our territory is being used to prepare potential attacks, either, or that
citizens of this state have been involved in this. Still, we will resume
monitoring all future developments, although latest US news indicates that there
are no specific intelligence reports on this," Ivo Kotevski, the interior
minister's public relations assistant, says.

US Attorney General Eric Holder said that they had received enough data to send
out a warning against travelling to Europe, after which the Japanese Government
followed suit. Yet, our government still does not plan to do this.

"Should the need arise to issue a travel advisory, we will brief the public,"
MNR [Macedonian Foreign Ministry] officials say.

Source: Nova Makedonija, Skopje, in Macedonian 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Barbados remembers the victims of Cubana terror attack in 1976

LENGTH: 477 words


Text of report by Caribbean Media Corporation news agency website on 6 October

Bridgetown, Barbados: Barbados Wednesday remembered the 73 victims of the Cubana
air disaster 34 years after what was then the most deadly terrorist attack in
the Western hemisphere.

Foreign Minister Maxine Mc Clean, Cuba's Ambassador Luisette Perez Perez, and
Dean of the Diplomatic Corp Juan Carlos Valdez Gonsalves laid wreaths at a
ceremony at the Monument erected in memory of the 48 passengers and 25 crew
members. The ill-fated Douglas DC-8 aircraft, Cubana flight 455, was blown up by
two bombs just off Barbados en route to Jamaica on October 6, 1976.

US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) documents released in 2005 indicate that
the agency "had concrete advance intelligence, as early as June 1976, on plans
by Cuban exile terrorist groups to bomb a Cubana airliner."

Four men were arrested in connection with the bombing and a trial was held in
Venezuela. Two of the men, Freddy Lugo and Hernan Ricardo Lozano were sentenced
to 20-year prison terms, but Orlando Bosch was acquitted and now lives in Miami.

Posada Carriles was held for eight years while awaiting a final sentence, but
eventually fled. He later entered the United States, where he was held on
charges of entering the country illegally but released on April 19, 2007.

Cuba has been demanding his extradition.

Carriles has denied any involvement even though he has provided many details in
his book "Caminos del Guerrero (Way of the Warrior)".

Meanwhile, a number of Caribbean academics, politicians, journalists, women
organizations as well as musicians have penned a letter to President Barack
Obama calling on him to ensure that the "crime instigators and intellectual
authors" of the bombing of the aircraft are brought to justice and not given
protection by the US government.

They said that since the bombing, 34 years ago, "terrorist attacks in the
Caribbean,particularly against Cuba, have not ceased during all these years."

They said that Washington instead "decided to prosecute, condemn and sentence
the fighters against terrorism in Miami instead of arresting the authors of the
terrorist acts against our peoples.

"This injustice is a consequence of the blackmail the economic power groups and
lobbyists in the South of Florida exercise against the American Administration,
"they wrote urging that the five" anti-terrorists Cuban fighters" imprisoned now
in the United States be set free.

"There is absolutely no evidence that they received a fair trial. They were
eventually condemned as a result of an unfair trial. They are prisoners because
they were judged in Miami, where the decisive influence of law and order is in
the same hands of those who protect the authors of the crime of Barbados in
1976".

Source: Caribbean Media Corporation news agency website, Bridgetown, in English
2000 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British diplomat escapes Yemeni terrorist attack

BYLINE: Oliver Holmes; Richard Spencer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 518 words


BRITAIN'S deputy ambassador to Yemen was the target of a rocket attack
yesterday. It was the second assassination attempt on a British diplomat in the
country's capital in six months.

Fionna Gibb escaped unhurt after two men disguised as street cleaners fired on
her car as she travelled to work at the embassy in Sana'a with four colleagues.

In what appeared to be a co-ordinated attack, a security guard at an Austrian
oil company in the city, opened fire on a French and British employee after
shouting Allahu akbar (God is Great). The Frenchman died and the Briton suffered
serious leg injuries. The incidents highlight the threat posed by al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula, a group re-formed only last year which has already
launched attacks in Yemen, neighbouring Saudi Arabia and across the world.

It claimed responsibility for the failed attack on the British ambassador,
Timothy Torlot, in April, when a suicide bomber detonated an explosive vest near
Mr Torlot's armoured car not far from where Miss Gibb escaped yesterday.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said "This shameful attack on British
diplomats will only redouble Britain's determination to work with the government
of Yemen to help address the challenges that country faces."

Yemeni authorities had issued an alert about an imminent threat to Western
targets two days previously.

The British embassy in Sana'a lies in an exposed position on a hillside. It is
heavily defended, with sandbagged machinegun posts.

Armoured vehicles pick up staff members from their homes in the city every
morning, deliberately using different routes every day to shake off would-be
attackers. A spokesman said embassy security was "constantly under review".

Miss Gibb was being taken through a suburb east of the Old City at 8.15am when
the two men stepped forward with a rocket-propelled grenade launcher, witnesses
said.

"I saw two men dressed as street cleaners fire a grenade," Haitham al Dubani, a
student, said. The grenade missed but showered the car with shrapnel, shattering
the windscreen.

A Yemeni woman walking with a boy nearby was hit in the head by shrapnel and hit
by another car that veered off the road. She and the boy, who was also slightly
hurt, were taken to hospital, as was an embassy official, who was not seriously
injured.

Miss Gibb, who took up her post at the embassy two months ago, was said to be
back at work yesterday. She has previously worked as deputy consul general in
the southern Iraqi city of Basra.

Yemen is afflicted by numerous tribal, regional and religious divisions.

Last year, a group of Yemeni and Saudi militants, some former detainees of the
Guantánamo Bay internment camp, announced the formation of al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula. Inspired by the Yemeni-American radical preacher Anwar
al-Awlaki, they commissioned the attempt by a former student of University
College, London, to blow up an American airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day.

Britain is leading international attempts to form a plan to stabilise the
country. It is thought to have special forces operating at least in a training
capacity in Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fionna Gibb: the target of a grenade attack by terrorists

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           October 7, 2010, Thursday

MISSILES WIPE OUT 5 TERROR SUSPECTS;
ATTACK OVER RAID FEARS

BYLINE: Rebecca Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words


AT LEAST five suspected militants were killed yesterday in a drone strike in
north-west Pakistan, officials said.

The US have stepped up unmanned drone attacks in the last month, apparently to
disrupt an al-Qaeda plot to launch commando-style raids on European cities.

And France yesterday said the risk of terror attacks in Britain is "very high".

The Paris government urged French people to exercise "extreme vigilance" when
visiting the UK, especially London.

Britain and the US have already warned people travelling in Europe to be
careful.

But the French advice is the most extreme to date, saying that British
authorities believe "the risk of an attack is very likely".

In the latest drone attack, local officials said two missiles struck a militant
compound in Miranshah, the main town of the North Waziristan district.

Five German nationals were killed in another drone strike in Pakistan earlier
this week in an attack linked to the European threat.

There have been 27 drone strikes since early September.

European Union officials have renewed warnings that the threat from al-Qaeda is
real and ongoing.

EU anti-terrorism co-ordinator Gilles de Kerchove said: "Public officials would
not terrify the population without anything to back it up.

"The threat is in the context of a general threat that has not diminished in
recent times."

And former premier Tony Blair yesterday said Western nations are losing the
battle against violent Islamic extremists.

The UN peace envoy said the West is being "outspent, outmanoeuvred and
outstrategised" by fanatics presenting Muslims as oppressed victims.

Analysts have linked the alleged European plot with the disappearance of several
Muslim radicals from the German city of Hamburg last year.

It is thought that one of them was captured and gave US authorities information
on the European plot.

The US envoy to Pakistan yesterday apologised for a recent NATO helicopter
attack that killed at least two Pakistani soldiers near the Afghan border.

Rocket Anne Patterson said the US extended their "deepest apology to Pakistan
and the families of the Frontier Scouts who were killed and injured".

Tankers carrying fuel to NATO troops in Afghanistan yesterday came under attack
from gunmen in Pakistan.

At least 25 trucks were destroyed in the attack which bore the hallmarks of the
Pakistani Taliban.

Britain's deputy ambassador to Yemen survived a rocket attack in the capital
Sana yesterday.

It missed Fiona Gibb's car and she was unhurt but three bystanders and an
embassy employee are thought to have suffered minor injuries.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BATTLE: Tony Blair AIR STRIKE: Missiles from a drone hit town

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

FRENCH WARN TERROR ATTACK ON BRITAIN IS 'VERY LIKELY'

BYLINE: FROM PETER ALLEN IN PARIS

LENGTH: 303 words


FRANCE has issued its most extreme warning in recent years about the dangers of
visiting Britain, saying a terrorist attack is 'very likely'.

A dramatic statement on the website of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs says
that visitors need to exercise 'extreme vigilance'.

President Nicolas Sarkozy ordered a crackdown on Islamic extremists this week,
with raids in Avignon, Bordeaux and Marseilles on Tuesday that led to 12
arrests.

Suspects were found with enough guns and ammunition to launch a 'Mumbai-style
attack' anywhere in Europe, with at least five airports highlighted as possible
targets. 'They were storing a lot of weapons, including Kalashnikov machine
guns,' said one detective.

The men were held after their phone numbers were found on the mobile phone of a
suspected terrorist arrested in Italy at the weekend.

Last week, security agents in France, Britain and Germany warned Al Qaeda
terrorists were planning a Mumbai-style atrocity in Europe.

The alert was sparked after Ahmad Sidiqi, an Afghan informant, told U.S.
interrogators of the plot. Sidiqi said Ilyas Kashmiri Z an Al Qaeda commander
linked to the attacks in Mumbai that left 174 people dead in 2008 Z had told him
teams had been sent to Europe to launch similar assaults.

The intelligence which led to France's warning about an attack in Britain being
'very likely' was provided

the Paris-based General Directorate for External Security.

It is known to operate undercover on British streets and has strong links with
MI6.

'The information was expertly attained in Britain, and this is the reason the
warning was issued,' said a French source.

Britain's deputy ambassador to Yemen survived a rocket-propelled grenade attack
on an embassy vehicle yesterday.

Fiona Gibb was unhurt but one of her colleagues was injured in the blast in the
capital Sana'a.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

British diplomat escapes Yemen terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 76 words


FOREIGN Secretary William Hague has described a terrorist attack on Britain s
second-highest ranked diplomat in Yemen as shameful. Deputy chief of mission
Fionna Gibbs was unhurt, but one of four other embassy staff suffered minor
injuries. Al Qaeda militants are believed to have been responsible for the
incident yesterday. Separately, a French contractor died and a UK contractor was
badly injured in a shooting at a gas company near the capital.

Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lichfield Mercury

                                October 7, 2010

Terrorised resident cleared of attack on snowball teenager

BYLINE: Mercury Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 256 words


A Householder who chased a schoolboy he caught throwing snowballs at his windows
was cleared of assault by jurors.

The 15 year-old claimed Mark James attacked him with a metal bar and beat him
with it more than a dozen times.

But James, who had cornered the boy following a pursuit across a snow-covered
field in Armitage, said he fell over on  ice when he grabbed the boy's jacket.

James, aged 50, of Shelley Close, Armitage had denied assaulting the boy, who
cannot be named, causing him actual bodily harm.

Stafford Crown Court heard  James and his family had suffered years of nuisance
behaviour from local youths, including water bombs, rubbish being thrown in to
their garden and nails put in car tyres.

He had repeatedly called out  police to try to tackle the situation and had been
put on a priority action list.

But James himself had also been cautioned by the police, in February last year,
for common assault on one youth following a snowballing incident.

The incident that landed him in the dock happened on January 7 this year, when,
he said, a gang of local youths were pelting his house with snowballs.

He was waiting for police to arrive over another incident two days earlier and
was hoping officers would catch them in the act.

But he decided to chase one "hoodie", who fled across a field at the rear of the
house and was cornered on a doorstep in a neighbouring street.

James said the boy took a swing at him, so he grabbed his jacket and the youth
fell on the ice.

He was cleared on Friday, October 1, following a five-day trial.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 54


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Briton killed by CIA was 'senior terrorist';
Victim was linked to planned attacks in UK

BYLINE: Michael Evans ; Adam Fresco ; Alice Fordham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words


A Briton killed in a CIA drone attack in Pakistan last month was an up-andcoming
member of al-Qaeda, The Times has learnt.

Abdul Jabbar, who is believed to have lived in northwest England with a British
wife before travelling to Pakistan, was killed in one of an increasing number of
Predator drone strikes launched by the CIA to target terrorist leaders and
disrupt planned attacks in Western Europe.

The disclosure came as suspected al-Qaeda militants fired a rocket at a British
embassy car carrying the deputy head of the mission in Sanaa, the Yemeni capital
yesterday, injuring an embassy employee and several civilians.

While the Foreign and Commonwealth Office was still trying last night to get
more information from the Pakistani authorities on the nationality of the man
killed in the drone attack, a senior Western official told The Times: "This man
was a senior terrorist and he was British and he is dead. Abdul Jabbar was an
up-and-comer in the ranks of al-Qaeda."

It is suspected that Jabbar had been involved in "anti-coalition activities" in
Afghanistan and in attacks in Pakistan and was known to British security
services.

Although Pakistani intelligence sources are reported to have said that Jabbar
was linked to a plot to launch simultaneous "Mumbai-style" attacks in Britain,
France and Germany, the official said that there was no evidence.

Inquiries on both sides of the Atlantic are still continuing into Jabbar's
background and it is not thought that he had any connection with Faisal Shahzad,
the Times Square bomber who was jailed for life on Tuesday.

An unnamed Pakistani intelligence official has claimed that Jabbar had been
chosen as the leader of the Islamic Army of Great Britain, at a meeting in the
North Waziristan region of Pakistan three months ago, but security sources in
Britain warned against linking him with any al-Qaeda or Islamist group in
Britain.

The targeting of a Briton by an American drone attack is highly unusual. The
only other known killing of a Briton by a CIA drone attack involved another
senior terrorist, Rashid Rauf, who helped to plan the July 7 suicide bombings in
London in 2005.

Rauf, of Pakistani origin, lived in Birmingham before he fled to Pakistan in
2002 after his suspected involvement in the murder of an uncle. He was killed by
a Predator drone missile attack in November 2008.

Last month Jonathan Evans, the Director-General of MI5, said that four or five
"real plots" against Britain were regularly uncovered at any one time, which
showed that there was a persistent intent by al-Qaeda and its associates to
carry out an atrocity. MI5 had found increasing threats from different areas,
including Somalia, Pakistan and Yemen, he said.

An FCO spokeswoman said: "Following reports of a British national being killed
in Pakistan, the British High Commission in Islamabad have requested that the
Pakistan authorities urgently provide further details regarding the incident and
any British nationals involved."

Air Chief Marshal Sir Jock Stirrup, the Chief of the Defence Staff, confirmed
yesterday that Britain was on "a heightened state of alert" because of the
terrorist threat.

The threat posed to Britain was highlighted by yesterday's ambush in Sanaa.
Fionna Gibb, the deputy head of mission, was unhurt but said to be shaken by the
attack, which happened two miles from the British Embassy. A French national was
killed in a separate attack. William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said that the
attacks would "only redouble Britain's determination to work with the Government
of Yemen to help address the challenges that country faces".

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 8, 2010 Friday

Pakistan article urges media not to "sensationalize" terror attacks

LENGTH: 945 words


Text of article by Alam Rind headlined "Terrorism and media" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Frontier Post website on 8 October


Interestingly, terrorism is a term which doesn't have a globally agreed
definition. Jeffrey Record in his study published in 2003 had counted 109
definitions. Walter Lagueur, an expert on terrorism, had counted over 100
definitions, and concluded the violence and threat to use of violence are the
only constants in these definitions. Factually, an act of terrorism is never
committed in isolation.

It always has a political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious
or any other purpose attached to it. Moreover, terrorism is not confined to
small organizations struggling to impose their will on to the majority; rather,
there can be state-sponsored terrorism aimed at subjugating population seeking
their rights as is the case of Indian-held Kashmiris. Terrorism can take form of
agro-terrorism, bio-terrorism, insurgency, environmental terrorism, economic
terrorism etc. But its sole purpose remains to induce fear among the masses and
to instil a feeling of hopelessness. It is in this state of mind that
individuals, groups and nations submit themselves to the designs of the
perpetrators of terrorist acts as a fait accompli. Terrorism in Pakistan is
generally attributed to Islamization of Gen Zia-ul-Haq's era. An Islamization
that encouraged recruitment of jihadis to fight Soviet troops occupying
Afghanistan. Mostly, people from underdeveloped parts of the country, like
southern Punjab and tribal areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, joined jihadi
organizations predominantly for economic reasons. With the defeat of Soviet
forces in Afghanistan, these individuals and organizations were abandoned. No
effort was made to rehabilitate the members of these organizations and to bring
them in the mainstream society. A large number of religiously charged and
virtually illiterate individuals who knew nothing except how to fight became
available. That presented an opportunity to regional and global powers to
recruit them for pursuance of their aims. So the jihadis virtually turned into
mercenaries. They wear the robe of religious organizations and perpetrate
terrorist acts at the behest of their foreign masters. Indian sponsorship of
terrorism in Pakistan through her consulates in Afghanistan is an established
fact. American involvement in Jondollah is also well-known.

While terrorism is nurtured by major players, Pakistan is termed as its
epicentre and exporter. Obviously, all this is being done with a purpose.
Indians have not reconciled with the partition of the subcontinent and
US-Israeli lobby wants to undo Pakistan's nuclear capability. It appears that
the objectives of these foreign powers are being facilitated by our own media.
Pakistani electronic and print media in its newly found independence is all out
to project negative image of the country. On our television screens, horrific
scenes of bomb blasts are often beamed with total disregard to the fact that it
might have traumatic effects on the children and could be inexpressibly painful
for the members of the bereaved families. The best of channels are in the habit
of repeatedly telecasting dreadful scenes and their newscasts or the anchors
repeat the bad news so many times that one would be saturated. This technique
adopted by the television channels has serious psychological implications. A
person watching such news or programme grows indifferent to bad news and it also
induces hopelessness, a harbinger to accepting defeat. Our electronic media
seems to be in competition as to how best they can sensationalize otherwise
routine functioning of the state organs. Anyone watching programmes in
connection with NRO [National Reconciliation Ordinance, issued by then President
Pervez Musharaf in October 2007, under which certain politicians and bureaucrats
accused of corruption were granted amnesty] would feel that it is a matter of
hours or at best days that the government machinery will collapse. Creation of
uncertainty by the media is also proving to be one of the major reasons for the
flight of capital and slowing down of economic activities in the country.
Celebrated anchors of Pakistani channels have come up with stunning interviews
with the terrorist leaders like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Sirajuddin Haqqani,
Baitullah Mehsud, Hakimullah Mehsud etc. from time to time. The tone and texture
of the interviews would project terrorist leaders as heroes or at least as
glorified dignitaries. After watching the way bad news are repeated, uncertainty
is cultivated and terrorist leaders are glorified by the Pakistani electronic
media, one can only conclude that they are supporting terrorism rather than
helping government to combat the same. It is important for the media to
understand that terrorism thrives on inducing fear. For this purpose they commit
terrorist acts, which have localized effects, but it is through unbridled media
projection of their deeds that they get countrywide and global coverage. That
amounts to serving their cause. Most of the anchorpersons, to make their shows
captivating, extensively use superlatives in their conversation that converts a
mole into a mountain, painting a wrong picture. Moreover, the perception that
any and everything happening in the country has to be projected is also
incorrect. Media, being a state pillar, has to exhibit responsibility. It must
not play in the hands of those who want to damage Pakistan; rather, should
induce hope so that the people are able to face difficulty with courage and
persistence.

Source: The Frontier Post website, Peshawar, in English 08 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 8, 2010 Friday

Two people involved in "terrorist" attack in western Iran killed - state TV

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 8 October

[Presenter]: After being pursued by police and security officers, two of the
main culprits behind the terrorist incident in Sanandaj [western Iran] were
killed.

In a cowardly attack on a Law Enforcement Force [police] station in the city of
Sanandaj yesterday [7 October], a terrorist group killed four police officers
and one civilian, injured 10 other people and ran away afterwards. Security and
police officers chased the terrorists and killed two of them. The remaining
members are being pursued.

A funeral ceremony will be held for martyrs tomorrow at 10am [0730 gmt] at the
Grand Mosque of Sanandaj.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1730 gmt 8 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             October 8, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Unions to lead Londonderry protest against the rising tide of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words


TRADE unions are to lead a protest rally against the recent dissident republican
bombs in Londonderry, the Belfast Telegraph can reveal.

Unions in Derry last night voted unanimously to organise the rally in response
to people in the city calling for a public statement of protest against
dissident activity.

Today, church leaders, business people and the public will be asked to come to
the rally in the Guildhall Square next Friday at 1pm to hear speakers from the
trade unions and community organisations, and to voice their opposition to the
recent dissident republican activity.

The latest Real IRA bomb at the Ulster Bank on Tuesday was the catalyst for the
rally.

The car bomb followed other attacks carried out in Derry over the past few
months, including a 200lbs bomb at the Strand Road PSNI station in August, the
murder of Kieran Doherty in February and a hoax bomb that caused traffic chaos
on the Craigavon Bridge.

Secretary of Derry Trade Unions Liam Gallagher said: "We are hoping that people
from right across the the city will gather at the Guildhall to show in no
uncertain terms their opposition to the actions carried out by the dissident
republicans.

"People have a genuine fear that sooner or later we may see another Omagh.

"They are also brassed off about being held hostage in their own city time after
time because of the traffic chaos we witnessed this week and a few weeks ago
when there was a hoax bomb left on the lower deck of the Craigavon Bridge."

The rally has already received the backing of SDLP Youth, while other political
parties are now expected to join the union movement and back the protest.

CAPTION: Killed: Kieran Doherty

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday

Europe terror alert 'link' to 9/11 attacker

BYLINE: JUERGEN BAETZ

LENGTH: 172 words



HIGHLIGHT: AN Islamic militant from Germany whose disclosures under US
interrogation in Afghanistan triggered Europe's recent terror alert is a friend
of a man convicted in the 11 September 2001 attacks, German intelligence
officials said.


Ahmad Wali Siddiqui, a 36-year-old German of Afghan descent arrested by the US
military in July in Afghanistan,  is the latest link between Germany and
al-Qaeda's terror campaign. Siddiqui is believed to have been part of the
Hamburg militant scene that included key 9/11 plotters.

Intelligence officials said he was a friend of Mounir el Motassadeq, who was
convicted by a German court in 2006 of being an accessory to the murder of the
246 passengers and crew on the four airliners used in the 2001 terrorist
attacks, and also frequented the al-Quds mosque in Hamburg, which the Germans
have now closed.

Motassadeq was found to have aided 9/11 suicide hijackers Mohamed Atta, Marwan
al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah by helping them keep up the appearance of being
regular university students - paying their tuition and rent - though it was
never established whether he knew of the planned timing, dimension or targets of
the attacks.

"Siddiqui is a long-term member who has been a friend of Motassadeq since 1997,"
said an intelligence official

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2010 Monday

Turkey "strongly" condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia on 11
October

Ankara: Turkey condemned the recent terrorist attack in northern Afghanistan.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement: "We strongly condemn the
terror attack in Takhar Province in which 15 people, including the provincial
governor, were killed and many others were injured. We also note that the attack
targeted a holy site and curse it as a crime against humanity."

"Any attempt that targets the efforts to ensure lasting peace and stability in
Afghanistan will not reach its goal. We sincerely believe that Afghan people
will reach peace, tranquillity and prosperity they deserve. Turkey will continue
extending full support to Afghanistan in its fight against terror and
extremism," the ministry added.

Fifteen people, including Mohammad Omar, governor of neighbouring Kunduz
Province, were killed and some 35 others were injured in a massive bomb blast
inside the Shirkat Mosque during Friday prayers in Takhar Province on October 8.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0625 gmt 11 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2010 Monday

Jordan to launch arrest campaign against terror attacks suspects - paper

LENGTH: 483 words


Text of report by Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyasah website on 10 October

[Unattributed Report: "Jordan Sets to Wage a Mass Arrest Campaign Against the
Involved Persons and Receives Important Information on Previous Terrorist
Operations."]

Well-informed Jordanian sources told Al-Siyasah that during the past few weeks,
the competent authorities in Jordan were able to get important information
through their investigations to reveal the sides responsible for carrying out
the two terrorist attacks in the country during the last nine months. The first
operation had targeted the convoy of the Israeli ambassador to Jordan on 14
January and the second targeted a bus transporting US trainers on their way to a
training base for the Jordanian Police in Amman's suburbs on 30 August.

The sources added on 8 October that the investigations of the Jordanian
authorities revealed that the two operations were almost identical, for they
were characterized by a high level of professionalism in gathering information
about the two convoys, their itinerary, and the time at which they leave. The
investigations further revealed that this contradicts the low level of
professionalism that characterized the Improvised Explosive Device [IED] that
targeted the two convoys, namely the small quantity of explosive materials in
the two IEDs and the fact that no side claimed responsibility for the two
attacks.

The sources further said that all these factors pushed the investigators towards
several possibilities, which significantly extended the period that the security
forces usually need to identify the perpetrators. Moreover, the investigation
took into account the two events of launching rocket-propelled grenades towards
Aqaba on 22 April and 2 August and the possibility that these two events are
related to the two terrorist attacks in a way or another.

The sources expected that the coming few weeks witness a mass arrest campaign in
Jordan against the people involved in the acts of sabotage, without referring to
their identities or affiliations, noting that some details must be received from
Arab intelligence services before continuing the investigation.

The sources added that "as shown in similar investigations, it is possible that
the cell that conducted the two attacks has organizational or funding ties with
sides in Egypt or Lebanon or within the Palestinian [National] Authority. It is
also probable that the arrest campaign, which will start in Jordan, includes
subversive elements from the above mentioned Arab countries and some European
countries." The sources further noted that these arrests will destroy one of the
most important subversive cells, adding that this cell became active in Jordan
in the last few years and is funded by sides from outside Jordan to carry out
subversive operations against foreign targets in the country.

Source: Al-Siyasah website, Kuwait, in Arabic 10 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERRORIST PUT OFF ATTACK;
Baby scare before ringleader sets off for London to kill 52, 1st day of inquest
told 7/7 attack was delayed to help pregnant wife

BYLINE: STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 435 words


THE 7/7 suicide bombers' leader delayed the attack so he could take his pregnant
wife to hospital, it was revealed yesterday.

Mohammad Sidique Khan sent fellow terrorist Shehzad Tanweer a text message
saying he "could not make it" because of a "major problem".

The next day Khan took wife Hasina to hospital in Dewsbury, West Yorks, then set
off for London on his evil mission.

She later had a miscarriage - on the day in July 2005 that her husband, Tanweer,
Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain murdered 52 innocent victims on London
Underground trains and a bus.

Relaxed

It means the attacks could have been planned for July 6, the day that London was
awarded the 2012 Olympics.

It was also revealed on the first day of the inquest into the deaths that the
gang had eight homemade grenades in the car they drove to Luton, Beds, which
they could have thrown at police if intercepted.

Fellow passengers said some bombers were "smiling and laughing, and generally
relaxed" as they travelled on to King's Cross station.

The Royal Courts of Justice in London was also told a piece of paper in
Lindsay's passport suggested Westminster, the heart of UK Government, may have
been a target. Emergency services and Tube officials were plunged into confusion
by the terror attacks.

Phone calls played in court showed staff still did not know if they were dealing
with a power surge or terrorism at least 44 minutes after the first blast.

A detective at Aldgate station told of "pandemonium".

Tormented

Relatives wept as Counsel to the inquest Hugo Keith QC outlined how apparent
blunders delayed emergency services.

Coroner Lady Justice Heather Hallett was told the gang wanted worldwide
publicity.

Tanweer, Khan and Lindsay detonated their bombs at Aldgate, Edgware Road and
Russell Square at around 8.50am and Hussain blew up a bus in Tavistock Square an
hour later.

Mr Keith said: "Just as the lives of 52 victims were callously and brutally
ended, the lives of many others have been and continue to be tormented."

The inquest is expected to last five months.

A special fund was set in memory of Scots accountant Helen Jones, 28, who died
in the explosion at Russell Square.

Helen grew up in Annan, Dumfries-shire, and was a school pupil in Lockerbie when
Pan Am 103 exploded in 1988.

The Helen Jones Appeal Fund gives financial assistance to pupils from the
Lockerbie area to study accountancy, finance or management courses at
university.

steve.hughes@dailystar.co.uk

YESTERDAY AT A GLANCE

* Attacks should have been 24 hours earlier

* Westminster was original target

* Car load of home-made 'grenades' found

* Delay in raising alarm slammed

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CORONER: Hallett
KILLER: Khan in net video and at wedding
IN COURT: June & John Taylor, parents of victim Carrie, above
BLASTED: Carriage of Tube train near Aldgate
CARNAGE: Wreckage of the bus and, below, hero Paul Dadge helps victim Davinia
Turrell at Edgware Road Tube station

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERRORIST PUT OFF ATTACK

BYLINE: by STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 428 words


Baby scare before ringleader sets off for London to kill 52, 1st day of inquest
told

7/7 attack was delayed to help pregnant wife

THE 7/7 suicide bombers' leader delayed the attack so he could take his pregnant
wife to hospital, it was revealed yesterday.

Mohammad Sidique Khan sent fellow terrorist Shehzad Tanweer a text message
saying he "could not make it" because of a "major problem".

The next day Khan took wife Hasina to hospital in Dewsbury, West Yorks, then set
off for London on his evil mission.

She later had a miscarriage - on the day in July 2005 that her husband, Tanweer,
Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain murdered 52 innocent victims on Tube trains
and a bus.

It means the attacks could have been planned for July 6, the day that London was
awarded the 2012 Olympics.

It was also revealed on the first day of the inquest into the deaths that the
gang had eight homemade grenades in the car they drove to Luton, Beds, which
they could have thrown at police if intercepted.

Fellow passengers said some bombers were "smiling and laughing, and generally
relaxed" as they travelled on to King's Cross station.

The Royal Courts of Justice in London was also told a piece of paper in
Lindsay's passport suggested Westminster, the heart of Government, may have been
a target. Emergency services and Tube officials were plunged into confusion by
the terror attacks.

Phone calls played in court showed staff still did not know if they were dealing
with a power surge or terrorism at least 44 minutes after the first blast.
Meanwhile, police were reporting explosions and deaths as the walking wounded
staggered out of stations.

A detective at Aldgate station told of "pandemonium" as Tube operators elsewhere
denied there had been explosions.

Relatives wept in court as Counsel to the inquest Hugo Keith QC outlined how
apparent blunders delayed emergency services in getting to the scenes.

That possibly meant the injured did not get the urgent medical attention they
needed.

He said: "These calls reveal considerable difficulties in assimilating
information that is coming in as clearly a very confused incident presented
itself."

Coroner Lady Justice Heather Hallett was told the gang wanted worldwide
publicity.

Tanweer, Khan and Lindsay detonated their bombs at Aldgate, Edgware Road and
Russell Square at around 8.50am and Hussain blew up a bus in Tavistock Square an
hour later.

Mr Keith said: "Just as the lives of 52 victims were callously and brutally
ended, the lives of many others have been and continue to be tormented."

The inquest is expected to last five months.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLER: Khan in net video and at wedding
CORONER: Hallett
IN COURT: June & John Taylor, parents of victim Carrie, above
CARNAGE: Wreckage of the bus and, below, hero Paul Dadge helps victim Davinia
Turrell at Edgware Road Tube station
BLASTED: Carriage of Tube train near Aldgate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

TERRORIST PUT OFF ATTACK

BYLINE: by STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 420 words


Baby scare before ringleader sets off for London to kill 52, 1st day of inquest
told

7/7 attack was delayed to help pregnant wife

THE 7/7 suicide bombers' leader delayed the attack so he could take his pregnant
wife to hospital, it was revealed yesterday.

Mohammad Sidique Khan sent fellow terrorist Shehzad Tanweer a text message
saying he "could not make it" because of a "major problem".

The next day Khan took wife Hasina to hospital in Dewsbury, West Yorks, then set
off for London on his evil mission.

She later had a miscarriage - on the day in July 2005 that her husband, Tanweer,
Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain murdered 52 innocent victims on London
Underground trains and a bus.

It means the attacks could have been planned for July 6, the day that London was
awarded the 2012 Olympics.

It was also revealed on the first day of the inquest into the deaths that the
gang had eight homemade grenades in the car they drove to Luton, Beds, which
they could have thrown at police if intercepted.

Fellow passengers said some bombers were "smiling and laughing, and generally
relaxed" as they travelled on to King's Cross station.

The Royal Courts of Justice in London was also told a piece of paper in
Lindsay's passport suggested Westminster, the heart of UK Government, may have
been a target. Emergency services and Tube officials were plunged into confusion
by the terror attacks.

Phone calls played in court showed staff still did not know if they were dealing
with a power surge or terrorism at least 44 minutes after the first blast.

A detective at Aldgate station told of "pandemonium".

Relatives wept as Counsel to the inquest Hugo Keith QC outlined how apparent
blunders delayed emergency services.

Coroner Lady Justice Heather Hallett was told the gang wanted worldwide
publicity.

Tanweer, Khan and Lindsay detonated their bombs at Aldgate, Edgware Road and
Russell Square at around 8.50am and Hussain blew up a bus in Tavistock Square an
hour later.

Mr Keith said: "Just as the lives of 52 victims were callously and brutally
ended, the lives of many others have been and continue to be tormented."

The inquest is expected to last five months.

A special fund was set in memory of Scots accountant Helen Jones, 28, who died
in the explosion at Russell Square.

Helen grew up in Annan, Dumfries-shire, and was a school pupil in Lockerbie when
Pan Am 103 exploded in 1988.

The Helen Jones Appeal Fund gives financial assistance to pupils from the
Lockerbie area to study accountancy, finance or management courses at
university.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLER: Khan in net video and at wedding
IN COURT: June & John Taylor, parents of victim Carrie, above
CORONER: Hallett
CARNAGE: Wreckage of the bus and, below, hero Paul Dadge helps victim Davinia
Turrell at Edgware Road Tube station
BLASTED: Carriage of Tube train near Aldgate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Calls to emergency operators reveal chaos as terror attacks were initially
discounted

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 649 words


484 witnesses contacted by the inquest team 240 witnesses expected to give oral
evidence A picture of chaos and panic in the wake of the July 7 attacks emerged
yesterday as previously unheard calls to emergency operators revealed how they
were plunged into confusion.

Despite numerous reports about a series of explosions on the London Underground,
it took its control room staff almost an hour to accept that they might be
terror-related.

Black smoke seeping out of tunnels was initially attributed to a power failure,
while there were varying reports of a train crashing at Edgware Road.

As emergency services struggled to cope with the attacks, there was uncertainty
about which carriages had been affected and in which direction the damaged
trains were travelling.

Meanwhile, in a series of panicked phone calls, police and other key staff were
describing scenes as "pandemonium" and warning of casualties as people came out
of tunnels with blood on their faces.

Hugo Keith, QC, lead counsel for the inquests, said: "A considerable amount of
time had elapsed, you will have seen, from the moment of the explosion of the
bombs to the acceptance by the staff of the NCC [the network control centre at
London Underground] that in fact they were bomb-related." He said that the
inquests would investigate whether any of the 52 people who died could have
survived if they had received immediate medical attention.

There were delays to treat victims at the Edgware Road blast, despite reports of
"multiple casualties", because ambulances were sent to an incorrect address at
nearby Praed Street. There were further delays because of fears of secondary
bomb blasts and concerns that the power was still on.

The three trains exploded almost simultaneously at 8.49am but operators
initially ruled out a terror attack. One operator initially showed a reluctance
to dispatch rescue workers, saying "we are not looking at an act of aggression
at the moment".

However, the calls became increasingly panicked, with several reports of a
"bang", walking wounded and passengers in the tunnels.

Detective Inspector Ian Baker, of British Transport Police (BTP), called
operators from Aldgate at 9.02am and said: "The building shook and we thought,
'what the f**k was that'.

"We've got pandemonium here." Control operators described the situation as
"mayhem". Inspector Robert Munn, of BTP, told an operator shortly after the
blasts: "There are people on those trains who will die if they do not get
immediate care. We need ambulances to Aldgate urgently."

About 20 minutes later one Underground worker reported: "There are people
walking out of Aldgate with blackened faces and God knows what."

However, at 9.28am controllers at London Underground were still ruling out a
terror attack.

Andrew Barr, network co-ordination manager, told a caller: "We don't put out
that it's an explosion. We think that train [at Edgware Road] has allegedly hit
the tunnel wall." He said it was thought that cable outages were responsible for
the other explosions.

At 9.32am, a worried train supervisor from Morden was assured that "it is not
believed to be terrorist-related".

However, at the same time, another operator told an official from the Railway
Inspectorate: "There are definitely walking injured, possibly fatalities. The
decision we can't make is whether it is a terror incident or whether it is a
[power] cable. We are leaning towards terror at the moment but I can't tell you
that." Mr Keith told the coroner that a "very confused picture" clearly
presented itself.

Graham Foulkes, father of 22-yearold David, who was killed at Edgware Road, said
the response to the attack was "clearly shambolic". He added: "They were clearly
unprepared and had clearly not been trained to deal with any major event
whatsoever."

The aftermath 52 people died as a result of the 7/7 attacks 20,000 CCTV tapes of
the scenes have since been studied

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The No 30 bus bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorist cyber attacks are a growing threat to the nation, says GCHQ chief;
Online tax systems 'at risk of attack'

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 415 words


CYBER attacks pose a threat that "goes to the heart of our economic well-being
and national interest," the head of GCHQ said last night.

In an unprecedented public speech, Iain Lobban, the chief of the Government's
secret surveillance centre, warned of the threat from terrorists, criminals and
hostile states using the internet.

Government systems are being hit by email-borne attacks 1,000 times a month, he
disclosed. Mr Lobban, who has never before given a public speech, spoke at a
London think tank as ministers prepare to increase government spending on
Britain's defences against electronic attack.

In the defence and security review next week, the Government will announce an
increase in funding for precautions against cyber attacks. Mr Lobban said such
increases could not come soon enough, and disclosed details of attacks already
being sustained by Britain.

GCHQ, which monitors millions of emails and telephone calls every day, is
detecting more than 20,000 malicious emails on government networks each month,
Mr Lobban said. Of those, 1,000 are "deliberately targeting" the state, he said.
The cyber threat to Britain's "critical national infrastructure" of power,
communications, transport and financial networks is a "real and credible one,"
he added. Mr Lobban also warned of the growing use of cyber techniques "by one
nation on another to bring diplomatic or economic pressure to bear" on others.

The British economy is also facing the threat of "theft of intellectual property
on a massive scale," he said. Mr Lobban warned that government business will
become vulnerable as more transactions are conducted online. He pointed out that
online tax and benefit payment systems could be soon processing more than £100
billion. Individuals are at risk from a "disturbing" growth in electronic
crimes, he added. Thousands of stolen British credit card details are available
for sale online for less than £2 each, he said.

A single computernet.work is believed to have stolen online banking details
^from more than 12 million § people worldwide, he added. i Mr Lobban's words to
the fc International Institute for y Strategic Studies are the most 5 explicit
warning to date from § Britain's intelligence chiefs £about the threat of
internet.- 5 based attacks. Jonathan Evans, i the head of MIS, has warned iithat
Britain faces "unrecon- Sstructed attempts by Russia, China and others" who were
using "sophisticated technical attacks" to try to steal technology on military
projects.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 13, 2010 Wednesday 3:34 PM BST

BOMBERS 'LAUGHING' ON WAY TO TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Sam Marsden and Katie Hodge, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


The July 7 bombers were ``sharing a joke, laughing, smiling and generally
relaxed'' as they made their final journey, a commuter said today.

Barrister Ben Leech said he watched the four men with suspicion after joining
their train at St Albans on his way to work in Temple, central London.

He said they stuck out from other commuters because they were carrying rucksacks
and wearing dark-coloured casual clothing that would not be suitable for the
office.

The inquests into the deaths of the 52 people killed in the 2005 atrocities
heard Mr Leech told police he suspected they were military cadets or going on
holiday together.

Speaking at the Royal Courts of Justice today, Mr Leech said the men ``seemed to
be in fairly good spirits''.

He said: ``They were fairly young and looked like they were going away, simply
because they had rucksacks, quite large backpack-type rucksacks.

``But they did not look like they were going on a casual holiday because they
were not wearing casual relaxed clothing, something a little bit more formal.''

The inquest heard Mr Leech told police in a statement they were ``sharing a
joke, laughing, smiling and generally relaxed''.

Under cross examination by Gareth Patterson, who represents four of the bereaved
families, he added: ``They were not subdued.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   vnunet.com

                           13 October 2010 Wednesday

UK facing increased threat of cyber terrorist attack

BYLINE: David Neal

LENGTH: 466 words



HIGHLIGHT: Critical infrastructure at very real risk, warns GCHQ director


The director of GCHQ has warned that the UK is facing the very real threat of a
cyber terrorist attack.

Iain Lobban said during a speech at the International Institute for Strategic
Studies that the UK's economic future relies on its ability to fend off cyber
attacks on the country's critical infrastructure.

Lobban explained that GCHQ has a role to play in all areas of UK security, and
had its roots in the code breakers at Bletchley Park.

"Through the intervening years our achievements have remained at that high level
of technological expertise. Our people, of whom I am immensely proud, remain one
of this country's great unsung assets," he said.

Securing the UK's critical infrastructure and protecting against malware is a
constantly evolving task, Lobban added.

"We have seen worms cause significant disruption to government systems, both
targeted deliberately against us and picked up from the internet accidentally,"
he said.

"There are over 20,000 malicious emails on government networks each month. Cyber
space lowers the bar for entry to the espionage game for states and criminals."

Lobban explained that the risks in all these areas are growing in line with the
growth of the internet.

"Cyber space is contested every day, every hour, every minute, every second. I
can vouch for that from the displays in our own operations centre of
minute-by-minute cyber attempts to penetrate systems around the world," he said.

Government use of technology is well documented, from self-service portals to
plans for ID cards, medical and police databases and the systems it uses to
operate.

Lobban said that the government will continue to put services online, but that
it has to be done without putting citizens' data at risk, and without opening up
payment systems to fraud. "This is a big challenge," he warned.

Lobban called the growth of electronic crime "disturbing", adding that when
thousands of credit card details are stolen they are sold for a handful of
pounds. Yet the implications go much deeper than financial loss.

"E-crime begins to look like a low-risk, but potentially high-profit,
opportunity for the creative criminal. So we need to change that," he said.

Likely solutions include better reporting mechanisms, increased use of
intelligence, improved law enforcement and better control at the supplier end.

"The owners of vulnerable services can help by adhering to good information
assurance practices," he said.

Lobban promised that the UK is committed to working with other countries and law
enforcement agencies to deal with the most advanced attacks, and that such
co-operation is critical.

"Where there is a deliberate or an unintended spread of a worm that threatens
critical systems, countermeasures will need to be co-ordinated internationally
in order to be effective," he said.

LOAD-DATE: 14 October 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 VNU Business Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday

US security firm, Indian agency behind terror attacks in Pakistan - article

LENGTH: 993 words


Text of article by Naveed Masud Hashmi headlined "What are US Blackwater
terrorists doing?" published by Pakistani newspaper Ausaf on 12 October

Whether or not anyone accepts it, the reality is that attempts to ignite the
fire of sectarianism in Karachi have reached their peak. On the very next day of
the killing of Maulana Muhammad Amin, a Jamia Banoria al-Alamia [Islamic
seminary] teacher of the Hadith and renowned religious scholar, two bomb
explosions occurred at the shrine of famous sufi saint Syed Abdullah Shah Ghazi
in Karachi. The government termed the explosions suicide attacks and claimed to
identify one of the bombers as 14-year-old Naseebullah. But, Naseebullah reached
home safe and sound the next morning. After finding one of the suicide attackers
alive, police authorities had to free Naseebullah's father. Therefore, our
security agencies can claim tomorrow that bomb explosions, and not suicide
attacks, had taken place at the shrine of the saint.

If one meets ulema, religious and political workers, and ordinary people of
Karachi, he will face no difficulty in knowing that residents of the Sind
metropolis have been completely disappointed with the role of the Sind
Government and police. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of Maulana
Muhammad Amin Shaheed's funerals, Maulana Mufti Muhammad Naeem and Maulana
Aurangzeb Farooqui demanded Supreme Court Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry to take suo moto notice of targeted killings [preceding two words in
English] of ulema and religious workers in Karachi. They said that approximately
40 of their colleague ulema and workers had fallen prey to targeted killing in
Karachi in two moths, but the administration and police did not arrest murderers
of anyone of them. As they had no expectation of justice from police and other
law enforcement agencies; therefore, the chief justice should provide justice to
them, they added.

The explosions at Syed Abdullah Shah Ghazi shrine had killed 10 innocent people.
Addressing a condolence meeting, Sunni Tehreek Chief Sarwat Ejaz Qadiri and
other ulema also demanded the chief justice to take suo moto notice of attacks
on shrines of sufi saints in the country. It is a reality that after the
targeted killing of ulema and religious workers in Karachi and recent attacks on
Data Darbar [one of the most revered shrines in Pakistan] in Lahore, two bomb
explosions at Shah Ghazi's shrine have created an environment of severe
restlessness among the countrymen. Whatever opinions different sectarian
organizations form about these incidents, it is their right. But the reality is
that the Pakistani people are not at all prepared to believe that these attacks
have any link with sectarianism.

Pakistan came into being 64 years ago and people belonging to Brelvi, Deobandi,
Ahl-e Hadith, and Shiite communities have been living in the country with each
other. The sacred shrines of sufi saints are also present in the country for
centuries. The question is: "What has happened during the past three or four
years that sacred shrines have started coming under attacks?" If anyone says
that curriculum taught in madrasahs belonging to a certain school of thought
incites for attacks on shrines, he is telling a lie. Had madrasahs curriculum
been producing such attackers, the followers of Deobandi, Brelvi, and Ahl-e
Hadith schools of thought would have been eliminated by now by fighting each
other.

And if anyone claims that shrines are being attacked because of "jihad," he has
been making such claims because of his ignorance or shallow knowledge. Jihad has
not started just one, two or three years ago; rather, a group of Pakistani
mujahidin had for the first time participated in the Afghan jihad in 1979.
During the war against former Soviet Union; students and teachers of the
Pakistani madrasahs and colleges, ulema, and people have been going to
Afghanistan to take part in jihad. A jihadist movement has been going on for the
past 20 years in Occupied Kashmir [India-administered Kashmir] as well and
thousands of Pakistan mujahidin have embraced martyrdom, fighting the Indian
forces there. But during this entire period no shrine was ever attacks in
Pakistan.

It clearly means that any true mujahid does not consider attacking shrines or
innocent people jihad. Had those conducting the attacks on shrines been
representing any particular sect, this evil had started half a century ago. The
attacks on shrines should be seen in the backdrop of the US so-called "war on
terror." No individual, group, or organization can pit followers of different
schools of thought against each other in Pakistan unless it enjoys support of
any foreign power.

Our media has been raising hue and cry about present of Blackwater in Pakistan
for the past several years. The question is: "What the hundreds of Blackwater
terrorists are doing in Pakistan?" And it is not hidden from any sensible
Pakistani that the United States and India want to pit two main Pakistani sects
-- Brelvi and Deobandi -- against each other. When Maulana Dr Sarfaraz Naeemi, a
renowned scholar of Brelvi school of thought, came to know about the US
conspiracy to pit these sects against each other, he was ruthlessly martyred.
But the country was saved from major sectarian riots because of sane reaction
expressed by the Brelvi school of thought.

What is the demand of the situation today is that renowned religious scholars of
both schools of thought, shrine leaders, and madrasahs elders sit together and
find a unanimous solution to this issue. Thousands of terrorists belonging to
Indian intelligence agency -- RAW [Research and Analysis Wing] and US Blackwater
are not visible to anyone in spite of being present in Pakistan. They are
engaged in their heinous activities on the Pakistani soil, but no one is aware
of this situation. If our ulema and leaders did not infuse unity in the country,
we will be annihilated.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad in Urdu, 12 Oct 10, p 10

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 14, 2010 Thursday 01:12 PM GMT

Failed terror attack suspect sacks legal team

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 105 words


Failed airline bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutalla has dismissed his legal team and
will represent himself in court in Detroit today.

The 24-year-old Nigerian, who tried to blow up a flight from Amsterdam to the
city last Christmas Day, is due for a pre-trial hearing.

He will be accompanied by a standby lawyer who can give advice.

Last month Abdulmutalla suggested he wanted to plead guilty to some charges.

He is charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction to blow up
Northwest Airlines Flight 253 by trying to fire to explosives hidden in his
underwear.

He has been held at a federal prison in Michigan since his arrest.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 14, 2010 Thursday 01:09 PM GMT

US still wary of European terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 112 words


The US still believes that Europe is at grave risk from a terrorist attack, a
government official warned today.

US State Department counter-terrorism co-ordinator Daniel Benjamin said the
terror plot remained active and a travel alert will stay in force.

Earlier this month the department advised American citizens living or travelling
in Europe to take more precautions for their personal security, following
reports that terrorists may be plotting attacks.

Concerns have centred around a plot using assault weapons on public places
similar to the 2008 Mumbai massacre.

Mr Benjamin said in London: "We don't view the conditions as warranting us
rescinding the (travel) alert."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Thanet Extra

                                October 15, 2010

Film explores terror attacks

LENGTH: 142 words


Thanet Film Society

The Palace, Broadstairs

London River Tuesday, October 19, 8pm Cert 15

»Ramsgate actress Brenda Blethyn stars as hard-working protestant Guernsey
farmer Elisabeth.

She is devoted to her daughter Jane, who lives in London and after the July 7
bus and tube bombings she stops answering her phone.

Concerned for her safety, Elisabeth travels to London, where she is contacted by
French-speaking African Muslim Ousmane, who has come to the UK in search of his
missing son, who appears to have been romantically involved with Jane.

French director Rachid Bouchareb uses a true incident to explore the emotional
turmoil of those  affected by it, and the racial and religious prejudice that
arose in its aftermath.

A subtly powerful and moving film, it benefits greatly from two excellent
central performances from Brenda Blethyn and Sotigui Kouyate.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan Taleban planning to use poisonous gas in terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by Asad Kharal headlined "TTP plans poisonous gas attacks"
published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 16 October

Lahore, 16 October: Intelligence reports suggest that terrorists belonging to
the Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP) plan to use poisonous gas in terrorist
attacks, sources told Daily Times on Friday [15 October].

According to intelligence reports, TTP was also considering other novel ways to
carry out terrorist attacks. Reports say that the terrorists could target
sensitive installations, important buildings, busy shopping malls, markets,
public places, mosques and other places of worship.

Authorities have directed the police and other law enforcement agencies to
immediately ramp up security, and adopt all necessary measures to ensure
foolproof security to foil the nefarious designs of extremists.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 16 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday

Iran, Turkey experts discuss 11 Sept terror attack

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Ankara, 16 October: IRNA representative office in Turkey and Turkish Institute
for Strategic Think-Tank held talks in presence of outstanding academic figures
on Saturday [16 October] on 11 September incident and issues pertaining to
global management.

Researchers from IRIB office in Turkey have also attended the meeting. The
Iranian and Turkish experts exchanged views on the issues. They said that they
believe 11 September incident prepared ground for global hegemony to interfere
in regional developments. The experts said that close cooperation between Iran,
Turkey, Syria and Iraq can help remove barriers for the economic cooperation.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1305 gmt 16 Oct
10

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                October 17, 2010
                                  Main Edition

TA soldiers put on terror attack alert ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 315 words


TA soldiers put on terror attack alert

PART-TIME soldiers in Co Antrim have been advised to increase their personal
security, Sunday Life has learned.

It follows a threat by dissident republicans hell-bent on cranking up their
bloody campaign to smash the peace process.

And it is Territorial Army members living in Newtownabby who are specifically on
the renegades' radar.

The heightened security threat centres on four areas of the borough --
Glengormley, Carnmoney, Mallusk and Hightown.

TA members living in these areas were warned in emails from Army headquarters
last week: "All personnel to increase security drills and vehicle checks."

The threat has emerged just two months after a high-ranking soldier was targeted
in a booby-trap car bomb in Bangor, Co Down.

TA soldiers train at barracks across Northern Ireland and also serve on
operations either with TA units or as individuals attached to regular Army
units.

More than 1,000 TA soldiers are deployed in war zones like Afghanistan each
year.

One source told us: "The dissidents have obviously been spotted carrying out
surveillance on soldiers in Newtownabbey.

"Some of the men in a couple of the areas mentioned probably feel safe because
by and large they would be loyalist districts, but it just goes to show the
danger dissidents continue to pose."

Leading Newtownabbey councillor Nigel Hamilton condemned the threat and urged
the Chief Constable Matt Baggott to review the protection of TA members.

He said: "It is a serious step up in activity to target part-time soldiers who
live and work openly in our community.

"It is not enough that TA members risk their lives in Afghanistan but to be
constantly under threat at home can only put them and their loved ones on
constant alert.

"The Chief Constable must respond to this threat and I will be seeking an urgent
meeting to ask for that response."

CAPTION: RISK: Nigel Hamilton speaks out

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

Pakistan religious outfits to hold long march against shrine terror attacks

LENGTH: 323 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Sunni Ittehad Council to stage long march
from Bari Imam to Data Mazar" published by The News website on 18 October

Islamabad: Sunni Ittehad Council on Sunday [17 October] announced to hold long
march on 27 November from Islamabad to Lahore to highlight the importance of
Nizam-i-Mustafa (Peace Be Upon Him) in ensuring peace and stability in the
country.

Chairman of the Council Sahibzada Fazl Karim made this announcement while
addressing the Ulema and Mashaikh Convention held here under the aegis of Sunni
Ittehad Council. A large number of Ulema and religious scholars belonging to
Sunni school of thought and their followers attended the conference.

The march would start from the shrine of Hazrat Bari Imam (RA) and culminate at
the shrine of Hazrat Data Ali Hajveri (RA) in Lahore, he said. Fazl Karim, who
is also MNA, announced that he and like-minded people would contest the next
general elections from the platform of the Sunni Ittehad Council, urging Ulema
and Mashaikh to get them united to play an active role in national politics.

Today, he said Pakistan is facing the biggest challenge of terrorism for which
an effective strategy is required to uproot the menace from the society.

He appreciated the efforts of security forces in flushing out the militants from
the tribal areas. The Ulema convention passed a number of resolutions on various
issues like poverty, terrorism, price hike, unemployment, national sovereignty
and publishing of hatred literature, asking the government to resolve these
problems in an appropriate manner.

Among others, Pir Mazhar Saeed Kazmi, Haji Haneef Tayyab, Pir Afzal Qadri,
Sarwat Ejaz Qadri, Qari Munir Ahmed Jeelani, Abdul Hameed Saifi, Syed Riaz
Hussain Shah, Rana Muhammad Iqbal and Abdul Rehman attended the convention and
expressed their views to ensure peace and stability in the country.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 18 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

India: Government counsel terms Mumbai attack "act of state-sponsored terrorism"

LENGTH: 507 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 18 October: Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving Pakistani terrorist involved
in the 26/11 [26 November 2008] attacks, smiled, yawned and scratched his head
showing no signs of remorse as India opened arguments in the Bombay High Court
Monday [18 October] on confirmation of his death sentence.

Government Counsel Ujjwal Nikam, while giving details about the barbaric acts of
Kasab and nine others who came from Pakistan to strike terror in Mumbai, said:
"The 26/11 attack was an act of state-sponsored terrorism and was executed by
Lashkar-i-Toiba [LT] with the aid of security apparatus of that country".

The arguments began in Court 49 before Justice Ranjana Desai and Justice R.V.
More through video conference to enable Kasab hear the proceedings from the
Central Jail, where he is imprisoned in the high security bomb-and-bulletproof
cell.

23-year-old Kasab, who appeared on a big screen sharp at 11 a.m. [local time],
seemed to be uninterested in the proceedings as most of the time he was seen
smiling and yawning. At times, he scratched his head, played with the button of
his prison uniform and stretched his arms.

During the first half of the hearing, Kasab sought permission to go to the
washroom. He gestured at jail staff who informed the court which allowed him.

This is for the first time that arguments on confirmation of death sentence are
being heard through video conference in the Bombay High Court, legal sources
told PTI.

The entire high court building was converted into a fortress, with deployment of
armed policemen at all the four entrances. Lawyers, media persons and court
staff were issued special passes to enter Court 49 to hear the 26/11 case.

Although Kasab was not brought to the court, security was tight in view of the
sensitive nature of the case.

On 6 May, the trial court had awarded death sentence to Kasab. In accordance
with law, death penalty was referred to the High Court for confirmation.

Nikam said a heinous conspiracy was hatched in Pakistan by LT to destabilize
India, wage war against India and cause financial losses by organizing terror
attacks in Mumbai in November, 2008, in which 166 persons from India, UK, USA,
Israel and other countries were killed.

He said the ten terrorists were trained in Pakistan and left Karachi for Mumbai
by boat Al-husseini. Midway, they hijacked M.V. Kuber and killed Captain
Amarsinh Solanki. They landed at Badhwar Park in south Mumbai and went to
different places in separate batches to execute the terror attacks.

Kasab and Abu Ismael took a taxi and planted a bomb before getting down at CST,
where they fired indiscriminately at people, killing several. The taxi bomb
exploded at Vile Parle, in which the driver and a lawyer were killed.

The duo then entered nearby Cama Hospital and killed a police officer and a
constable, while injuring few others. Outside the hospital, they shot dead top
police officers, Hemant Karkare, Ashok Kamate and Vijay Salaskar.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1141gmt 18 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorism and cyber attacks are key threats to Britain, says report

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words


BRITAIN faces an increased threat from terrorism, cyber attack and small-scale
wars, a National Security Strategy published today will say.

The security and intelligence services and counter-terrorism police are to
escape major cuts in this week's public spending review due to the threats.

The strategy is a key precursor for the Strategic Defence and Security Review,
to be published tomorrow, which will explain how Britain will defend itself
against such attacks.

It will also form the basis for spending decisions to be announced this week,
including a £500million boost to cyber defence, sources told The Daily
Telegraph.

"The security strategy will look at the issues we are going to face in coming
years and the spending review will look at how to deliver that," one source
said. The security strategy is expected to outline four key threats to Britain.

The primary threat remains al-Qaeda in Pakistan and its associates in Somalia,
Yemen and North Africa, who continue to plan attacks against targets in Britain,
the security strategy will say.

That is likely to mean that MI5, MI6, GCHQ and the Metropolitan Police
counterterrorism command will escape the worst of the cuts. But the document
will also highlight the threat from cyber attacks on government infrastructure.

While not naming individual states, GCHQ, which is responsible for cyber
defence, has been concerned for some time that states such as China and Russia
are unlikely to use conventional or nuclear weapons in an attack on Britain and
are more likely to attempt to shut down essential systems used to run the
country.

Similar attacks have been seen when Russia has been in disputes with Estonia and
Georgia, leading to problems with their internet and even cash machines.

A third risk that will be highlighted is the threat of small-scale wars in
foreign countries that may escalate out of control, drawing in neighbouring
countries and creating havens for terrorists.

That threat is likely to have a major bearing on the defence review tomorrow,
which is likely to emphasise the need for mobile forces involving a combination
of aircraft carriers and special forces.

The fourth element will be the risk from natural disasters such as pandemic flu,
where strategies have been developed over recent years.

Iain Lobban, the head of GCHQ, said in a speech last week that the Government
was receiving 20,000 malicious emails a month, of which 1,000 were deliberate
attacks.

Security Lack of strategy 'puts UK at risk'

The UK's national interest is threatened by a lack of strategic thinking at the
heart of government, MPs have warned.

The public administration select committee identified a tendency for Whitehall
to "muddle through'' and pointed to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars as examples
where there had been a lack of overarching strategy.

They called for the remit of Sir Peter Ricketts, the National Security Adviser,
to be expanded to include a central co-ordinating role on national strategy. The
report said Britain's capacity to think strategically had been undermined by
assumptions that national interests were best served by the special relationship
with the US and economic links within the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            October 18, 2010, Monday

SUPER MIKE CALLS IT A DAY AFTER 41 YEARS;
COP HAS HANDLED CASUALS, TERROR ATTACKS, NEDS AND STARS

BYLINE: Paul O'Hare

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1085 words


STRATHCLYDE'S longest serving police officer made his final arrest in front of
the Pope.

And Superintendent Mike Dean's epic career ended in the Hampden tunnel as
Scotland took on world champions Spain.

The dad-of-two officially retires on Friday after nearly 41 years of service.

Over the years, he's man-marked Maradona, drank with Inter Milan's Ultras, dealt
with the grim aftermath of the Lockerbie bombing and crossed Europe with the
Olympic flame.

Mike, 59, was on duty in Bellahouston Park, Glasgow, last month - just as he was
for Pope John Paul II's historic visit in 1982.

And he was called into action to make the solitary arrest of the day.

He recalled: "During the Mass there was a call put out, 'Chief inspector
requiring assistance in Zone 4' "I was first in and Kenny Graham, my chief
inspector colleague who is ages with me, was on the deck.

"He had a guy pinned down and the guy was trying to bite and kick him.

"I landed on top of the guy and Kenny looked round and said, 'Oh, no. Not you.'

"I never thought me and Kenny would have been rolling about in front of the Pope
but I don't think he saw us!"

Colleagues later joked that the two officers were just like Jack and Victor from
the hit BBC comedy Still Game.

Christopher McGill, 30, admitted breach of the peace, resisting arrest and
police assault last Friday and was given a 100-day curfew.

Mike's final duty was as ground commander at Hampden for Tuesday's Euro 2012
qualifier.

He said: "I specifically asked to be in the tunnel for Scotland versus the world
champions for my last working day.

"It was a great night - pity about the result!

"After the game my three-year old grandson got his picture taken with Allan
McGregor.

"And as I handed him over I said, 'Don't drop him!' "

Stalking

Mike was also on duty when Scotland played Argentina in a friendly in 2008. And
he shadowed the South American side's legendary star-turnedmanager in the
tunnel.

Yesterday, he laughed as he recalled his brother phoning from Hong Kong after
watching the match on TV.

Mike said "I was actually told I was stalking Diego Maradona."

His role as a police adviser has taken him to places such as Barcelona, Milan,
Amsterdam, Prague and Belgrade.

One game that sticks out was the behind closed doors Champions League match
between Inter Milan and Rangers in 2005.

Mike revealed: "Before the match, the chief of police took me to a pub to meet
the Ultras.

"There is an uneasy relationship between the chief and the head of the Ultras
but he was a really nice guy.

"I gave him a Strathclyde Police lapel badge and he went scurrying away and came
back with an Inter Milan lapel badge for me.

"He told me: 'I'll be coming to Glasgow.' I said: 'I hope you are not going to
cause any trouble.'

"But he replied, 'No. I'm bringing my wife and children and there will be no
trouble from the Ultras.'

"It was surreal to see the chief of police and the head of the Ultras having a
beer together."

Another highlight was a European tour in 2005 after Strathclyde Police were
tasked with taking the Olympic flame on foot from Athens to Glasgow for the
Special Olympics.

Mike, who acted as a media officer, said: "We went through almost every capital
in Europe and it took over six weeks. And we kept the flame lit the whole way.

Mike, whose daughter is also a cop, has policed dozens of concerts ranging from
Bruce Springsteen and AC/DC at Hampden to Snow Patrol and Coldplay at
Bellahouston.

He revealed that even in the tensest times there were a few lighthearted moments
- including one in Glasgow's Gorbals.

Mike revealed: "A few years ago, we did an ambush in Norfolk Street. The day
before, the suspect threatened to kill his social worker.

"My star witness, the only one who could identify this guy, was in my command
vehicle.

"It was a busy area we were watching and the guy said: 'I think that might be
him'.

"I said, 'Thinking's not good enough, you need to be sure.'

"This happened two or three times and I said, 'Are you okay doing this? Is there
anything wrong with your eyes?'

"He then told me: 'I'm going in for an eye operation next week'.

"I asked him how bad his eyes were and he said, 'I was at a game at Parkhead
last week and I could not tell the difference between Evander Sno and Neil
Lennon.'

Thankfully. minutes later the suspect was spotted, identified, surrounded by 10
armed cops and arrested.

A career spanning more than four decades has also had its share of dark days.

In his role as a media spokesman for the force, Mike was dispatched to Dumfries
to assist the country's smallest force in the wake of the 1988 Lockerbie
bombing.

He said: "I went down on day two and at that time, nothing had been removed and
there were still bodies lying around. It was absolutely horrific."

And Mike's first helicopter trip was to accompany a TV crew as the famous aerial
footage of the crater was filmed.

The officer's childhood dream was to join the RAF as a pilot.

Freak

But after a change of heart, aged 17, he sat his police entrance exam in Elgin.

In March 1970, Mike joined the then Dunbartonshire Constabulary.

And he recalled how Sir William Kerr, the first of eight chief constables he has
served under, was almost killed in a freak accident.

Mike said: "The force was looking at buying or hiring a helicopter and the chief
went for a shot in one of them.

"It landed beside the current headquarters in Dumbarton and as he got out he
walked into the tail rotor of the helicopter.

"He lost his eye and part of his shoulder.

"The detective sergeant who was dealing with it came into the office with a
piece of the chief's collar bone."

Mike learned an early lesson - "always watch your prisoners" - when he was
headbutted by a ned in Dumbarton town centre.

And he recalled being hit on the head with a bottle and kicked in the privates
by a female on his first Saturday night shift in Drumchapel.

Since then he has served in all three Glasgow divisions. He also played a vital
role in community relations in the wake of the Kriss Donald and Moira Jones
murders.

His final appointment was as deputy divisional commander and earlier this year
he was presented with a lifetime achievement award.

The force he leaves is a world away from the one he joined thanks to advances
such as DNA and CCTV. But with budget cuts looming he fears for the future.

Mike said: "If certain organisations can get bailed out with public money then
why can't the public sector?

"If you spoke to someone on the street and said 'Would you rather have police on
the street or a bank on the street?' "I know what they would say."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRAZY CAREER: Mike has dealt with Ultra casuals, left, the Lockerbie
disaster and Diego Maradona, right VISIT: Mike's last arrest was in front of the
Pope

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

Terrorism and cyber attacks are main threats to UK, national security strategy
finds

BYLINE: Helene Mulhollandguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 747 words

ABSTRACT

New report also highlights risk of terrorism linked to Northern Ireland

FULL TEXT

Britain is under a "potent threat" of attack from al-Qaida, the government said
today, publishing a report that also highlighted terrorism linked to Northern
Ireland as a serious risk.

In a joint statement, David Cameron and Nick Clegg said there needed to be a
"radical transformation" in the way Britain thinks about and organises its
national security.

The Tory-Lib Dem coalition government's first  says terrorism and cyber attacks
are currently the main threats facing the UK. It identifies four "tier one"
risks that, it says, must be the government's highest priority.

The other major threats are a large-scale accident or natural hazard such as
pandemic flu and an international military crisis that could draw in the UK and
its allies.

A second series of "tier two" priorities include an attack by another state or
its proxy using weapons of mass destruction, a civil war or other instability
that terrorists could exploit to threaten the UK, and a significant increase in
the level of organised crime.

Also listed as a "tier two" priority is the threat of severe disruption to
information received or transmitted by satellites, possibly as the result of a
deliberate attack by another state.

A large-scale conventional military attack on the UK is rated only as a "tier
three" priority alongside disruption to oil and gas supplies and a large-scale
radioactive release from a civil nuclear site.

Other "tier three" risks include a significant increase in the numbers of
terrorists, organised criminals or illegal immigrants trying to enter the UK, an
attack on another Nato or EU member or a UK overseas territory, and the
disruption of essential supplies such as food or minerals.

The publication of the strategy comes ahead of the release tomorrow of the
strategic defence and security review, which will set out the future shape of
the armed forces.

In a joint foreword to the strategy, Cameron and Clegg said: "We are entering an
age of uncertainty. This strategy is about gearing Britain up for this new age
of uncertainty - weighing up the threats we face and preparing to deal with
them," they said.

"As g Government, we have inherited a defence and security structure that is
woefully unsuitable for the world we live in today. We are determined to learn
from those mistakes and make the changes needed."

In a written ministerial statement, Cameron said the UK faced a "complex array
of threats from a myriad of sources".

The prime minister said: "Our objectives are ensuring a secure and resilient
United Kingdom, and shaping a stable world.

"In pursuit of these goals, our highest priorities are tackling terrorism, cyber
security, international military crises and natural disasters such as floods and
pandemics.

"We will draw together and use all the instruments of national power to tackle
these risks, including the armed forces, diplomats, intelligence and development
professionals, the police, the private sector and the British people
themselves."

Speaking earlier today, May said that 51% of malicious software threats that
have ever been identified occurred in 2009.

The home secretary said: "It's a threat to government, it's a threat to
businesses and indeed to personal security. We have identified this as a new and
growing threat in the UK."

Iain Lobban, the director of GCHQ, the government's eavesdropping and encrypting
agency, last week used his first public speech to call for an aggressive
approach to cyber attacks, and warned of the dangers of adopting the sort of
defensive strategy famously symbolised by France's Maginot line, which was meant
to repel the Germans and failed.

On international terrorism, May said Britain now faced a "very serious threat".
"That is why we have a threat level that is at 'severe', which means an attack
is highly likely," she said. "We must all be vigilant."

Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, said ahead of today's statement: "The
government seem to be producing a reheated security strategy to provide cover
for a rushed defence spending review, rather than producing a renewed and
careful consideration of the UK's defence and security priorities.

"The government should show renewed vigour in the process towards a political
settlement in Afghanistan, led by the Afghans, while supporting our 10,000
troops with the resources they need in creating the conditions on the ground for
a more stable country."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Chechnya terror attack leads to tightened security in neighbouring republic

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Makhachkala, 19 October: Dagestan's Interior Minister is stepping up security
measures at facilities and premises that are under its jurisdiction, following
the rebels' attacks on the Chechen parliament in Groznyy.

"Instructions to step up security measures at facilities of the [republic's]
infrastructure, social sector, state and municipal power agencies as well as
other facilities of vital importance have been given to heads of city district
authorities," a spokesman of the republic's Interior Ministry has told Interfax.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0803 gmt 19 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Police say Pakistan Taleban financed failed Time Square terror attack

LENGTH: 422 words


Text of report by Mudassir Raja headlined "TTP men financed botched New York
attack" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 19 October

Rawalpindi, 18 October: The capital police on Monday [18 October] said
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP) men had extended financial support to Faisal
Shahzad in planning the botched terrorist attack in New York's Time Square.

This was stated by Sihala police in its investigation report about the arrest of
three men, Hunbal Akhtar and Mohammad Shoaib Mughal of Rawalpindi and Mohammad
Shahid Hussain of Islamabad. The report was submitted to Anti-Terrorism Court
(ATC) Special Judge Malik Mohammad Akram Awan. The court put off the hearing in
the case till 26 October. They said it had been established that the three men
had links with the man in the US.

The investigators in their report, under Section 179 of Pakistan criminal
procedure code, said the three men used to visit Hakimullah Mehsud of TTP, and
Shoaib allegedly allowed Faisal Shahzad and three other suicide bombers to stay
at his home for one week. In their investigation report, the police said the
name of one of the bombers was Qaiser Mehmood and another was identified as
brother of Qari Hussain, while the third one was unknown. Later, the men who
stayed at the house of Shoaib carried out suicide attacks in Muzaffarabad. On
the disappearance of Humbal, Shoaib and Shahid, the police believed that they
had been kidnapped and registered cases with different police stations of the
twin cities. But on 5 September, they received information that they had gone
underground and had never been abducted. Police arrested them from Islamabad
Highway when they were travelling in a car (LXL-8485), while their two other
accomplices, Faisal and Faheem, escaped. The investigators got the registration
number checked from Lahore and found it fake, as the number was issued to a
motorcycle and its owner was not known. Police said a laptop and maps of
important buildings of Islamabad, including Parliament House, were also
recovered from the vehicle. They said the accused in their statement, under
Section 164 of criminal procedure code before a judicial magistrate, confessed
that they had provided 43, 000 dollars to Faisal Shahzad for the attacks. Police
had obtained the recording data of conversation between the accused and Faisal.
The investigators prayed to the court to convict the men for abetting and
carrying out terrorist activities within and outside the country.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 19 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Politicians blame Chechen attack on international terrorism

LENGTH: 697 words


This morning rebels attacked the Chechen parliament, Gazprom-owned
editorially-independent radio "Ekho Moskvy" reported on 19 October. As a result,
three people died and at least 17 were wounded. One of the rebels blew himself
up while two others penetrated the building. A shoot-out started.

The report said that the Chechen attack was discussed at the State Duma. A
detailed investigation is needed to understand what the goal of the terrorists
was and how they managed to penetrate the parliament, Vladimir Vasilyev, head of
the State Duma Committee on Security, said.

"After initial reports, contradictions and uncertainties always abound. Now we
already have certain theories. We should wait, and I'm sure these questions will
be answered, especially as we have taken this problem under control, and we will
learn more within our sections, naturally. Since the group of rebels was small,
their goal was limited, I think," Vasilyev said.

Vasilyev confirmed that a number of parliament employees had died in the
accident, the radio added.

There are no safe zones in the North Caucasus today, Gennadiy Gudkov, deputy
head of the State Duma Committee on Security, believes. He told the radio
station that this is a systemic problem.

"In spite of the efforts taken by the federal government and the president, the
desirable result is eluding us. This fact, it seems, indicates the existence of
some serious systemic flaws in the overall mechanism of power in the Russian
Federation. We cannot single out individual areas and clear them of corruption
and bureaucratic arbitrariness which, certainly, create favourable breeding
grounds for the viruses of terrorism in this region. We cannot achieve this.
Consequently, it seems that the measures taken are correct and that the
government understands that socioeconomic policy should be put in order in the
first place but these measures are too late. They are coming against the above
mentioned problems of the Russian authorities have, the problems which,
unfortunately, reduce to nothing these efforts to normalize the situation in the
North Caucasus," Gudkov said.

The attack of rebels on the Chechen parliament will be discussed at a meeting of
the Caucasus commission under the upper chamber of the Russian parliament,
Aleksandr Torshin, member of the Federation Council, head of the Caucasus
commission and member of the National Antiterrorist Committee, has told
Interfax. The meeting is scheduled for next Tuesday [26 October].

Torshin said that it seems the terrorists had found a new target. "Whereas
before the terrorists attacked only the executive, now they carry out attacks
against the representative authorities too," Torshin said. He believes that the
event warrants special attention because in this case "we are dealing with a
certain show of force. This must not be left without response".

Aleksandr Torshin doesn't rule out that the attack was timed to coincide with
head of the Interior Ministry Rashid Nurgaliyev's working trip to Chechnya.
"This was a public-relations stint for the fighters," the senator thinks.

The Interfax agency quoted head of the Chechen parliament Dukuvakh Abdurakhmanov
as saying that, in his view, the attack on Chechen parliament was coordinated
from abroad.

This view was echoed by head of the Russian Federation Council, currently in
China. According to an ITAR-TASS report from Beijing, Federation Council speaker
Sergey Mironov believes that the terrorist act in Groznyy was funded by
international terrorism. "This was an attempt to destabilize one of the Caucasus
republics and to justify the money the terrorist underground receives from
abroad, "Sergey Mironov told Chinese journalists. Mironov is convinced that the
existing legislation makes the efficient struggle against terrorism possible.
The Federation Council speaker is convinced, at the same time, that in this case
"we are dealing with international terrorism" which can be countered efficiently
only by joint international efforts.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0900 gmt 19 Oct 10; Interfax news
agency, Moscow, in Russian 0846, 0856 gmt 19 Oct 10; ITAR-TASS news agency,
Moscow, in Russian 1047 gmt 19 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Crime ring busted in southern Russia planned terror attacks - committee

LENGTH: 399 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 19 October: The activities of a criminal group that planned terrorist
attacks in Astrakhan Region have been stopped, the National Antiterrorist
Committee (NAC) has told Interfax on Tuesday [19 October].

"The activities of a criminal group that planned to carry out terrorist acts and
bandit raids in Astrakhan Region have been stopped in a timely manner," the
committee said.

"Getting information in advance, competent actions of field officers, the
effective work of the operational headquarters and investigators made it
possible to prevent crimes and ensure the safety of our citizens," the committee
said.

According to NAC, Gayni Zhumagaziyev, who was on the wanted list, was killed in
Astrakhan. He had offered armed resistance and was killed in the ensuing gun
battle.

"The criminal was found in possession of a belt with two grenades, a knife,
loaded magazines for automatic weapons, and an assault rifle and two pistols
stolen from a police employee," NAC said.

The committee also said that in the process of ending the activities of the
militant group, special services found other ammunition, a cardboard box with
ammonium nitrate weighing about 1kg, and aluminium powder packed in plastic
bags.

"The bandits were also found in possession of documentary and video materials on
religious and extremist topics, a notebook with notes on tactical combat
training, a sheet of paper depicting sectors of fire for shooting at a motor
vehicle," NAC said.

The committee noted that the special services got on the trail of the criminals
while investigating three armed attacks on police employees committed during the
summer in Astrakhan. Two policemen were killed and six were wounded in the
attacks. The attackers stole service weapons and radio stations.

According to NAC, it has been established that a weapon seized from the
militants was used in the commission of crimes: on 27 August, a young woman was
killed using the weapon, and on 5 October it was used in the attack on the imam
of a mosque in the city.

"The criminal cases opened on these facts have been consolidated to form one
case. Eight people have been detained in the course of subsequent search
operations. Two other suspected accomplices are still wanted," NAC said.

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1533 gmt 19 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

e Tier 1 includes international terror attacks, including chemical, biological
or nuclear attacks.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words


e Tier 1 includes international terror attacks, including chemical, biological
or nuclear attacks.

e Tier 2 priorities include attacks by other states, civil wars or other
instability which terrorists could exploit to threaten the UK, or a significant
increase in the level of organised crime.

e Tier 3 threats include disruption to oil and gas supplies and a large-scale
radioactive release from a civil nuclear site.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Cyberwar and terror attacks rated as worst security threats in review: National
security strategy lists four 'tier one' risks: Non-state groups most likely
perpetrators

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor, Security editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words


The government yesterday unveiled its national security strategy, emphasising
new threats facing Britain from cyberspace, non-state groups and hostile forces
that are unlikely to be deterred by conventional weaponry.

Coming before today's defence review on military spending, the national security
strategy white paper identified four "tier one" threats to Britain - terrorism,
attacks in cyberspace, a large accident or hazard, and lastly, a military
crisis, the only one relating to a conventional emergency that would involve
other states.

The defence review will confirm that the navy will get two aircraft carriers at
a total cost of £5bn, by far the most expensive single item in the armed forces'
inventory. The RAF's ageing Tornado jets will be reprieved, at least in the
medium term.

The review will also allow extra resources for countering cyber attacks,
amounting to about £500m. GCHQ, the codebreaking and eavesdropping centre, is
likely to benefit.

Officials did not say whether the government would develop an offensive cyber
warfare capability, as the US has done. But they made clear MI5 and MI6, which
have enjoyed budget increases in recent years, would not escape an austerity
package in tomorrow's spending review.

The "tier two" list of threats includes potential attacks on the UK by other
states employing chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons;
insurgency overseas; and attacks on satellites.

"Tier three" threats include disruption to gas and oil supplies, a rise in the
"level of terrorists, organised criminals, illegal immigrants, and illicit goods
trying to cross the UK border to enter the UK", and attacks on a UK overseas
territory "as the result of a sovereignty dispute".

The white paper was based on risk assessments taking into account the impact of
a potential attack and its likelihood, said senior British officials.

The paper states: "At present only al-Qaida represents a major ideologically
driven threat to the national security of the UK and our allies. But . . . some
regionally based ideologies could affect us through our role as an international
hub, through the engagement of some (in) diaspora populations, or through
driving conflict which impacts on our interests. It is a realistic possibility
that in the next 10 years, extremists . . . could cross the line between
advocacy and terrorism."

The white paper was welcomed by anti-nuclear groups, including Greenpeace, which
claimed the MoD had wasted money "equipping itself to fight the last war rather
than the next". It added: "Yet that doesn't seem to be deterring the government
from . . . plans to waste £97bn on Trident's replacement, a cold war weapon
entirely irrelevant to the key threats."

The shadow foreign secretary, Yvette Cooper, said: "Our concern is, this (was)
produced to provide cover for what the defence secretary admits has been a
rushed defence review, not strategic at all."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Terrorism and cyber attacks the main threats

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 254 words


Terrorism and cyber-attacks are the main threats facing Britain and Northern
Ireland, the British government said yesterday.

The new National Security Strategy identifies four "tier one" risks which, it
says, must be the government's highest priority.

The other major threats are a large scale accident or natural hazard such as
pandemic flu and an international military crisis which could draw in Britain
and its allies.

A second series of "tier two" priorities include an attack by another state or
its proxy using weapons of mass destruction, a civil war or other instability
which terrorists could exploit and a significant increase in the level of
organised crime.

Also listed as a "tier two" priority is the threat of severe disruption to
information received or transmitted by satellites, possibly as the result of a
deliberate attack by another state.

A large-scale conventional military attack is rated only as a "tier three"
priority alongside disruption to oil and gas supplies and a large-scale
radioactive release from a civil nuclear site.

Other "tier three" risks include a significant increase in the numbers of
terrorists, organised criminals or illegal immigrants trying to enter Britain or
Northern Ireland, an attack on another Nato or EU member or an overseas
territory and the disruption of essential supplies such as food or minerals.

The publication of the strategy comes ahead of the release today of the
Strategic Defence and Security Review, which will set out the future shape of
the British armed forces.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 19, 2010 Tuesday 2:07 PM GMT

After a brazen suicide attack by Islamist terrorists, how can Russia's top brass
claim Chechnya is 'stable'?

BYLINE: By Andrew Osborn

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 442 words


Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, has been struck by Islamist terrorists in a
brazen suicide attack. The assault has punctured the Kremlin's far-fetched
claims that the restive region is "safe and stable". Three extremists drove into
the internal Russian republic's parliamentary compound on Tuesday morning,
killed three people, and then blew themselves up with explosives. Witnesses said
the trio shouted "Allahu Akhbar", and engaged in a fierce gun battle with
Special Forces.

The parliament building was left badly scarred and seventeen people seriously
wounded. If that is what Russia's interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev calls
stability (a statement he made hours after the attack) then I think someone
needs to hand the man a dictionary. Chechnya is not stable. It is more stable
than it used to be, yes, but when suicide bombers can drive into the centre of
Grozny and wreak mayhem, a serious problem remains.

I have lost count of the number of times I have heard Russian military top brass
claim to have defeated the insurgents. I have lost count of the number of times
that Ramzan Kadyrov, the Kremlin-backed Chechen leader, has claimed the same.
But still the attacks continue.

Nor is the Islamist insurgency confined to just Chechnya anymore. Russia's
entire mainly Muslim southern flank - the North Caucasus - is seething. It is an
undeclared guerrilla war. Every now and then the militants pull off "a
spectacular" like the double suicide bombing of the Moscow metro in March that
left forty people dead.

Such appalling atrocities briefly capture the world's attention. But not for
long. Russia's two brutal wars in Chechnya in the 1990s did grip the world but
what is happening there now is far less tangible. Suicide car bombings,
shoot-outs, and targeted assassinations take place across the North Caucasus
every week. But they are often in places and affect people that few Westerners
have ever heard of.

The militants say they want to create an Islamic caliphate, while experts in the
region say crushing poverty across the region makes it easy for them to
replenish their ranks. In the meantime, the Kremlin is blithely endorsing
grandiose plans to build a series of luxury ski resorts across the North
Caucasus. It is a nice idea albeit one that seems decades ahead of its time. Yet
if the Kremlin is serious about bringing peace and prosperity to this troubled
part of the world, it needs a new strategy that goes well beyond its tried and
failed heavy-handed response of merely meeting fire with fire. Building a ski
resort or two before the insurgency has been properly and definitively
extinguished isn't going to do the trick either.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Simulated terror attack rebuffed in Russian-Indian drill - agency

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report in English by corporate-owned Russian military news agency
Interfax-AVN

Chaubattia, India, 20 October: Contingents participating in the Indra-2010
Russian-Indian anti-terror drill at the foot of the Himalayan mountains are
practicing operations to spot and neutralize terrorists, spokesman for the
Southern Military District Lt-Col Andrey Bobrun told Interfax-AVN on Wednesday
[20 October].

"In accordance with the scenario, a Russian checkpoint has been attacked by
terrorists. The terrorists were fully defeated," Bobrun said

"The Russian mountain riflemen also practiced search operations with the use of
sapper dogs. They searched 'pilgrims', discovering a grenade. The pilgrims,
dramatized by Hindus, were dispersed, immobilized and detained," the spokesman
said.

The Russian riflemen also searched a populated area, where they discovered and
defused bombs, and detained another terrorist group.

The Russian contingent's professional performance was praised by the commanders
of the exercise, including Maj-Gen Glinin and Commander of the 99th Brigade,
Brigadier General Gopal.

The Indra-2010 anti-terror drill started in Chaubattia in northern India on
Saturday [16 October].

The exercise is proceeding on densely populated terrain with great elevation
differences and forested areas.

Source: Interfax-AVN military news agency, Moscow, in English 1310 gmt 20 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Suicide bombers kill three in attack on Chechen parliament: Islamist terrorists
fail to breach politicians' refuge: President Kadyrov blames Britain for tumult

BYLINE: Luke Harding, Moscow and Agencies, Grozny

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 655 words


Gunmen stormed Chechnya's parliament building in Grozny yesterday, killing three
people and injuring 17, in the latest audacious military operation by the
region's Islamist underground.

One insurgent detonated a bomb outside the gates at 8.45am local time, killing
himself and wounding others. Two gunmen then ran into the building shouting,
"Allahu Akbar!" ("God is great" in Arabic) and opening fire, Chechen officials
said.

The militants reportedly tried to enter the main parliamentary hall, where
several deputies were meeting. Unable to do so, the gunmen barricaded themselves
in the building's ground floor and eventually blew themselves up, officials
said.

All the attackers were killed. Two police officers and a civilian also died.
There was a grim scene around the building, with body parts and the decapitated
corpse of a terrorist lying amid shattered glass.

Russian interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev, who was in Grozny at the time,
described the assault as "extremely rare". "Here there is stability and
security," he said, repeating Kremlin claims that Chechnya, run by the
pro-Moscow president, Ramzan Kadyrov, was firmly under government control.

The attack can been seen as further evidence of the insurgents' growing capacity
to strike at high-profile targets linked to Kadyrov and his regime.

The insurgency by Islamist rebels has grown over the past three years, with
daily bombings and shootouts between militants and security forces.

The rebels are fighting to establish an Islamic emirate across Russia's northern
Caucasus. The centre of the violence has shifted to the neighbouring Muslim
republics of Dagestan and Ingushetia. But the situation in Chechnya remains
highly volatile, despite assertions that the country is now peaceful after
brutal wars in 1994-1996 and 1999-2005.

"The timing and target of this latest attack is very interesting," said Dr
Cerwyn Moore, an expert in north Caucasus politics at Birmingham University. "It
really underlines the weakness of Kadyrov. We are seeing well co-ordinated
assaults on the symbols of power inside Chechnya."

Moore said a schism this summer in the insurgents' hierarchy may have
contributed to the recent escalation in violence.

Last week the rebel leader Doku Umarov ordered a number of commanders to renew
their oath of allegiance to him. "One (anti-Umarov) faction could be
demonstrating its ability to carry out attacks in Chechnya proper," Moore said
of yesterday's assault.

In recent months the rebels have staged a number of spectacular attacks. In
March, two female suicide bombers from Dagestan attacked the Moscow metro,
killing 40 people. In August, rebels stormed the home village of Kadyrov,
seizing several buildings. Last month 17 people were killed when a suicide car
bomb exploded in Vladikavkaz, capital of predominantly Christian North Ossetia.

Speaking at a parliamentary session after yesterday's attack, Kadyrov blamed the
UK and other European countries for the ongoing violence. He lambasted Britain
for failing to extradite Akhmed Zakayev, the Chechen separatist leader who has
political asylum in London.

Zakayev was briefly arrested last month in Warsaw while meeting other Chechen
exiles. Russia yesterday renewed an Interpol warrant for his arrest.

"The authorities and special services of London and Warsaw are protecting
bandits who killed people and committed crimes on the territory of Chechnya.
Where's democracy?" Kadyrov asked.

He also suggested Zakayev would be punished, regardless of whether Russia's
attempts to extradite him succeed. "If they don't respect us, we will make them
do so. They are barring me, a politician and a law-abiding citizen, from Europe,
but they are at the same time covering Zakayev, who is suspected of terrorism."

Captions:

Chechen special forces examine bomb damage outside the parliament in Grozny
Photograph: Musa Sadulayev/AP

Chechen forces gather on an armoured personnel carrier after the incursion

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Infosecurity Europe says IT industry is ready to meet the challenge of terrorism
and cyber-attacks identified as major threat to UK PLC

LENGTH: 568 words


October 20, 2010









Responding to the government's newly-unveiled security strategy, the organisers
of the InfoSecurity Europe event, held each spring in the UK, says that the UK's
IT industry is ready to take on the challenges that the new decade of cybercrime
will create. Infosecurity Europe's will be held at Earls Court, London 19-21
April 2011 www.infosec.co.uk

Claire Sellick, Infosecurity Europe's Event Director, said that the current -
and ongoing - convergence of technologies in the IT sector means that business
life can be made significantly easier, with information available on a 24-7
basis, even when out and about, using a mobile Internet-enabled device.



"Even without access to a laptop and mobile broadband dongle, business
professionals can still hold a lot of computing power in the palm of their hand,
in the shape of a smartphone. But just as these mobile Internet-enabled devices
are threatened by cyber-crminals, our research suggests that, with the right
technology in place, the Internet users of UK PLC are more than ready for the
security threats that hackers and criminals throw at them," she said.

"The government has committed half a billion pounds to help defend the UK
national infrastructure which, when viewed against a backdrop of budget cuts
elsewhere in Whitehall, is a very positive move, for which the cross-party
review team are to be applauded," she added.

According to Sellick, the conclusions of the cross-party Strategic Defence
Review lays the foundations for a new period of UK defences, with the battle
lines of the future being drawn in both the traditional physical landscape, as
well as the equally important cyber landscape.

We are seeing, she said, a growing number of terrorists that eschew their
traditional tools for the electronic weaponry that the Internet now offers them.


The UK IT security industry, she explained, has been supplying its clients with
the latest computer defences for several years, creating an electronic ring of
steel around business IT systems that few people truly understand, and even
fewer can attack effectively.

"The rapid pace of electronic hackery and espionage, however, is such that
crackers will develop new attacks and methodologies that can be employed for
fraudulent, and well as terrorist means," she said.

"We're confident that, with the latest technology at their fingertips, today's
British businesses can better defend themselves against the coming wave of
security threats," she added.

For more on the government's national security strategy: http://bit.ly/aByYrL

About Infosecurity Europe

Infosecurity Europe, celebrating 16 years at the heart of the industry in 2011,
is Europe's number one Information Security event. Featuring over 300
exhibitors, the most diverse range of new products and services, an unrivalled
education programme and visitors from every segment of the industry, it is the
most important date in the calendar for Information Security professionals
across Europe. Organised by Reed Exhibitions, the world's largest tradeshow
organiser, Infosecurity Europe is one of five Infosecurity events around the
world with events also running in Belgium, Netherlands and Russia. Infosecurity
Europe runs from the 19th - 21st April 2011, in Earls Court, London.



Infosecurity Europe
WWW: http://www.infosec.co.uk
Neil Stinchcombe, Eskenzi PR Ltd
Tel: +44 (0)207 1 832 833
e-mail: neil@eskenzipr.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan spy agency 'helped terrorists to plan Mumbai attack'

BYLINE: RAVI NESSMAN

LENGTH: 324 words



HIGHLIGHT: A US citizen convicted in the 2008 Mumbai attacks has claimed
Pakistan's main spy agency was deeply involved in planning the strike,
monitoring preparations and providing funding and advice to the attackers,
according to an Indian government summary of his interrogation.


The report gives the strongest indication of the involvement of Pakistani
authorities in the attack, which killed 166 people, paralysed India's business
capital and froze peace efforts between Pakistan and India.

Under questioning by Indian officials, David Headley told how intertwined
Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency was with the Lashkar-e-Taiba group
accused of carrying out the attack,  according to the report.

Headley, 50, from Chicago, was born Daood Gilani to a  Pakistani father and an
American mother. In March, he pleaded guilty in US federal court to laying the
groundwork for the Mumbai attack as well as preparing for an attack in Denmark.

According to the report, Headley said the Pakistani spy agency provided
individual handlers - many of them senior officers - for all the top members of
Lashkar and gave them direction and money to carry out their reconnaissance of
prospective targets.

The group's chief military commander, Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi, was close to the
director general of the spy agency, Lieutenant General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, the
report states.

"According to Headley, every big action of LeT is done in close coordination
with ISI," the report said, using a common abbreviation for Lashkar-e-Taiba.

The ISI has long been suspected of links to terror groups. The spy agency is
thought to have nurtured Lashkar to attack Indian security forces in disputed
Kashmir.

Western officials have accused the ISI of working with the Taleban to
co-ordinate attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan.

According to the report on the interrogation, Headley said the spy agency was
having problems with militant groups in Pakistan, as fighters based in Kashmir
were beginning to join Taleban groups fighting along the Pakistan-Afghanistan
border.

Launching a huge attack on India would prevent further defections from these
groups by raising their morale and move the "theatre of violence" from Pakistan
to India, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday

India says US terror inputs before Mumbai attacks were "not specific"

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 20 October: India on Wednesday [20 October] said terror-related
inputs provided to it by the US prior to the Mumbai attack in 2008 were
"general" in nature and "not specific".

The remarks by India's External Affairs Minister S M Krishna came days after
reports that two estranged wives of Pakistani-American LT [Lashkar-i-Toiba]
operative David Coleman Headley had before the Mumbai carnage told US officials
about his "radical connections".

"We had some general and not specific information which we had received from the
US prior to the heinous attack on Mumbai. But it was not specific and very
general," External Affairs Minister S M Krishna told reporters in reply to a
question on the subject.

He emphasized on the strategic ties between US and India and how they were
further strengthened in the recent years.

"We share a common outlook on a host of issues including on combating
terrorism," Krishna said.

According to media reports, two estranged wives of Headley had met US officials
and informed them about his terrorist links. However, the US has maintained that
these inputs were of a general nature.

Headley had made startling revelations about his activities in India to the
National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials who interrogated him in Chicago in
the US recently.

This includes terror attack plots on targets including the National Defence
College here.

US ambassador to India Timothy Roemer said in a statement last Saturday that
Washington had shared with New Delhi terror-related inputs it deemed were
"potentially credible" to this country's national security.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1647gmt 20 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday

Afghan Defence Ministry taking measures to prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 427 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 20 October

[Presenter] The National Defence Ministry of Afghanistan reports about taking
necessary measures to prevent new attacks of Al-Qa'idah network in Afghanistan.
Although this ministry views such information as part of Al-Qa'idah network's
false propaganda, but it says the ministry is very serious about such reports.
On the other hand, the Afghan National Defence Ministry also reports about the
readiness of Afghan forces to take over security responsibility.

[Correspondent] Although an ISAF high official in Afghanistan has recently said
that quite a few number of members of Al-Qa'idah network from Pakistan have come
to eastern parts of Afghanistan. They are returning to Afghanistan to carry out
new attacks. However, the National Defence Ministry of Afghanistan says it has
taken the necessary measures in this regard.

[Gen Zahir Azimi, spokesman for the National Defence Ministry, captioned] The
National Defence Ministry in cooperation with the international community and
Afghan forces take measures regarding every expressed opinion or movement. We
are not indifferent towards such information. At the same time, though we
consider such information more false propaganda rather than practical, we take
such information seriously.

[Correspondent] The National Defence Ministry of Afghanistan sees Al-Qa'idah as
the most important element in the increase of insecurity in northern
Afghanistan. However, the ministry also insists on focusing attention on
providing security in these areas. The National Defence Ministry of Afghanistan
also reports about the readiness of the Afghan security forces to take the
security responsibility.

[Gen Zahir Azimi] The readiness of the Afghan forces is seen based on evaluation
and analysis. The Afghan forces have the capacity to take on the security
responsibility and at the same time there are potentials in different parts of
Afghanistan to start this process tomorrow. However, I do not want to start it
from secure places. If it is not too difficult it must at least places where the
[security] situation is in average state.

[Correspondent] These ideas are expressed at a time when the process of American
forces' gradual withdrawal will start next summer. However, the government of
Afghanistan insists on enhancing the capacity of Afghan security forces.

[Video shows the spokesman for the Ministry of National Defence speaking at a
news conference in Kabul, archive footage of a number of foreign forces.]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 20 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday

Mum-to-be's terror in pub firework attack

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 483 words


A HEAVILY-pregnant woman has told of the

horror moment a masked yob hurled a bundle of exploding

display fireworks into a crowded pub.

The makeshift bomb' of 20 fireworks taped together landed near Amy Royle, who
was with partner Jon Flood and dad

Raymond at the Melville Hotel, Barton Road, Stretford.

Customers ran for cover as scorching red missiles showered the bar area. Amy,
who is 41 weeks pregnant, was bundled into the ladies' toilets.

Customer Viv St Paul was hit in the face by an exploding shell before she ran to
safety. Both women escaped serious injury.

Police are now investigating the reckless and stupid' attack, which was captured
on the pub's CCTV system. The graphic footage shows the thug lighting the
fireworks outside before throwing them inside and running off. The explosion is
also caught on camera.

Amy, 28, who works at a doctors' surgery, is originally from Canada but has been
living in Stretford for six years. She said: The shots from the fireworks were
firing everywhere. People were just running about the place. It was awful.

Jon and my dad pushed me into the ladies toilets because that was the nearest
room away from the bar. I am 41 weeks pregnant and even after this it still
didn't trigger anything. I was really shook up but I was more concerned about
the bump. The midwife came out to see me later but I was okay. The baby seems
quite content.

Viv, 41, a hairdresser at New Reflections on Barton Road, was enjoying a drink
with friends and suffered a cut nose. She said: Me and two others ran into the
toilet. I didn't realise I'd been hit until one of the girls saw my nose
bleeding. I couldn't see anyone the room was just full of smoke. I was so
terrified. They weren't normal fireworks, they looked like an explosive. I was
still in shock most of the night. It's been playing on my mind what could have
happened.

Viv's partner Phil Cumpsty, 41, added: It was like a firework display indoors. I
just think about what could have happened we had some friends with small
children in earlier.

Thirty customers were inside at the time. Landlord David Brown was having a meal
in Manchester when he got a call from his son and raced back. He said: When I
got there the pub was just covered in smoke. You couldn't see the person in
front of you. This is a proper boozer. There are never any arguments and it is
always peaceful. This is very much out of character and I cannot understand why
this has happened.

The CCTV is very dramatic. It shows the thing exploding and about 45 minutes of
smoke-filled rooms afterwards.

It landed on the carpet and was almost like a bomb. Apparently it was just boom
after boom. We are all just glad that no one was hurt and hope the police catch
this person soon.

The CCTV footage is being studied by detectives. Call police with information on
0161 856 7655 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

â   Women's pregnancies normally last up to 40 weeks.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK Mum-to-be Amy Royle and, below, Viv St Paul and Phil Cumpsty, ran
for safety in the attack. Pictures:Steve Allen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

ULTRAS TERROR IN STAB ATTACKS;
Fan tells of how gang threw bottles at them

BYLINE: LAURA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 832 words


A LIVERPOOL fan today spoke of his fear as he ran through the streets of Naples
chased by a mob of violent moped riding "Ultra" hooligans.

Tage Herstad, of Anfield, was one of many fans caught up in a night of trouble
on the city's streets which saw three men treated in hospital for stab wounds
and a family group of four supporters from Bedfordshire hurt.

Ian Friar, 44, from Huyton, Philip Alexander Phillips, 53, from Netherton, and
Luke Watson, 27, were slashed by knife wielding yobs in Naples old town and
treated in hospital.

Meanwhile Gary Brown, from Bedfordshire, and his two sons Daniel, 23, and Adam,
17, and their friend Ross Hazeldene, 23, needed hospital treatment after a
separate attack.

Mr Herstad told the ECHO that Reds supporters were met with a violent welcome in
the notoriously dangerous port city ahead of last night's Europa League fixture.

"We went out for a drink (on Wednesday) and at about 11pm we went to get a pizza
when we heard a big group getting together behind us," he said.

"They were smashing sticks and baseball bats on the floor making a noise, so we
just started walking.

"We started walking quickly, but we walked the wrong way and into a blind alley
way and had to go back towards them.

"Then they came chasing us on scooters, there was a big crowd of them - about 30
after us.

"They followed us into a big square and then there was a big group in front of
us too, about 20 or 25.

"So we just went into the pub." In a bid to calm the situation Mr Herstad left
his 10 friends in the bar to try to reason with the scooter riding yobs.

"I went out to them and they said 'can't you just come out and fight?' "I told
them no and so they just said OK and left. The first gang respected that and
walked away.

"But then minutes after that the young lads in the second group wearing
balaclavas came in and went ballistic with bottles flying.

"They were hitting us and throwing bottles. I got hit once or twice with bottles
in the elbows and some of my mates got hit."

TARGETED: Life-long Liverpool fan Tage Herstad pictured in Naples the morning
after he was attacked along with a group of Liverpool fans by local hooligans
Picture: GARETH JONES After trouble flared the police arrived to help victims,
but too late to stop an innocent local man being hit in the head twice by flying
bottle.

"He was injured just outside and was bleeding to the head.

"There were loads of police around they came just a bit too late. They were with
five or six cars."

The shaken Reds fans were then escorted back to their hotel by three police
cars.

Italian police yesterday convened a press conference to warn Liverpool
supporters to follow their strict safety procedures after admitting Napoli''s
Ultras were out on the streets targeting visiting fans in random attacks.

Three men known to the Italian authorities - Lucio Gerrado, Fiorentino Mirko and
Marco Mazzano - were arrested in connection with the attack on Mr Brown and his
family.

Police also seized a number of weapons, including six-foot planks of wood with
protruding screws, a baseball bat, knuckle dusters and iron bars.

Reds'' fans were told to stick to certain designated areas near the port before
kick-off at Estadio San Paulo, amid fears of further attacks in the build up to
the game.

However, there were unconfirmed reports of running battles between police and a
group of Napoli fans after they tried to ambush Liverpool supporters outside the
stadium before the start of the game.

Filippo Bonfiligo, head of Digos - the Italian anti-terror unit - said: "The
city is so great (vast) that it is impossible to prevent everything occurring.

"We will be searching everyone going in to the stadium but (visiting) supporters
are obliged to follow the special route to the stadium. That area will be safe.

"We hope that the English supporters coming here will follow the strict meeting
points so they can be escorted safely to the stadium."

He added: "We know groups of 'Ultras' are seeking English fans. There have been
investigations into the violence that has taken place and we have made three
arrests."

NAPOLI FAN APOLOGISES FOR VIOLENT ATTACKS ONE apologetic Napoli supporter logged
on to the ECHO website to apologise to LFC fans for the violence. Giovanni
wrote; "I''m a SSC Napoli supporter, a real supporter, I think, not like stupid
people who did stupid things yesterday night. "As a Neapolitan citizen I''m
ashamed about what happened last night and all I want to let you know is that
according to most of supporter of my team, fans of Liverpool are one of the best
in the world. "Our teams (Liverpool and Naples) never have played against each
other and for us playing against Liverpool was like a dream [to] meet fans of
Liverpool to drink a beer together and to exchange our scarves." He added: "I
think that something is already broke. "I''m so sorry (like the most of
neapolitan supporters and citizens); there isn''t any other words to express
this feeling."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TROUBLE FLARES: Napoli fans set off flares during the game Picture:
GARETH JONES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                                  2ND Edition

ULTRAS TERROR IN STAB ATTACKS;
Fans targeted by big gangs of 'Ultra' thugs

BYLINE: LAURA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 522 words


LIVERPOOL FC fans enjoyed a trouble-free night after their team's draw with
Napoli - but their trip was overshadowed by violence in which three fans were
slashed by knife-wielding thugs.

Merseyside police stationed in Naples said intelligence suggested there was no
repeat of Wednesday night's bloodshed at the hands of Italian "Ultra" yobs.

Violence errupted after articles published in the daily Il Mattino newspaper
used the word "hooligans" to describe Reds fans journeying to the game.

Merseyside police chief inspector Dave Lewis said: "They actually used the word
'hooligan', which I think is probably irresponsible because there was no
foundation for that description."

Liverpool fans spoke of their horror as they were chased through the streets by
moped-riding thugs in the run-up to the game.

Tage Herstad, of Anfield, was one of many fans caught up in a night of trouble
on the city's streets which saw three men treated in hospital for stab wounds
and a family group from Bedfordshire hurt.

Ian Friar, 44, of Huyton; Philip Alexander Phillips, 53, of Netherton; and Luke
Watson, 27, were slashed by knife-wielding yobs in Naples old town and treated
in hospital.

Gary Brown, of Bedfordshire, and his two sons Daniel, 23, and Adam, 17, and
their friend Ross Hazeldene, 23, needed hospital treatment after a separate
attack.

Mr Herstad told the ECHO Reds supporters were met with a violent welcome in the
notoriously dangerous port city ahead of last night's Europa League fixture.

He said: "We went out for a drink [on Wednesday] and at about 11pm we went to
get a pizza when we heard a big group getting together behind us.

"They were smashing sticks and baseball bats on the floor making a noise, so we
just started walking.

"We started walking quickly, but we walked the wrong way into a blind alley and
had to go back to them.

"Then they came chasing us on scooters. There was a big crowd of them - about 30
after us.

"They followed us into a big square and then there was a big group in front of
us too, about 20 or 25, so we just went into a pub."

In a bid to calm the situation, Mr Herstad left his 10 friends in the bar to try
to reason with the yobs.

He said: "I went to them and they said 'can't you just come out and fight?' I
told them 'no' and so they just said 'OK' and left. The first gang respected
that and walked away.

"But then minutes after that, the young lads in the second group wearing
balaclavas came in and went ballistic with bottles flying.

"They were hitting us and throwing bottles. I got hit once or twice with bottles
in the elbows and some of my mates got hit."

Police arrived to help victims, but an innocent local man was hit in the head
twice by flying bottles.

Mr Herstad said: "He was injured just outside and was bleeding to the head.
There were loads of police around but they came just too late."

The shaken Reds fans were then escorted back to their hotel.

Filippo Bonfiligo, head of Digos - the Italian anti-terror unit - said: "We know
groups of 'Ultras' are seeking English fans. There were investigations into the
violence and we have made three arrests."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TARGET: Lifelong Liverpool fan Tage Herstad pictured in Naples the
morning after he was attacked by a gang TROUBLE FLARES: Napoli fans set off
flares during the game Picture: GARETH JONES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

US offers Pakistan $2bn arms deal to fight Taliban and al-Qaida: Clinton
announces 30% rise in arms funding Focus on terror havens for attacks in
Afghanistan

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Washington Declan Walsh Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 465 words


The US announced a $2bn (£1.3bn) arms sales deal with Pakistan yesterday to help
boost the fight against Taliban and al-Qaida groups using the country as a safe
haven for attacks inside Afghanistan.

The deal, to be spread out over the next five years, amounts to about a 30%
increase in US funding for weapons sales to Pakistan.

US-Pakistan relations are turbulent, constantly switching between Washington
criticising Pakistan for a lack of commitment to fighting extremism to insisting
it one of its most important allies.

The planned increase in spending was announced by the US secretary of state,
Hillary Clinton, at the end of a three-day US-Pakistan summit in Washington
attended by senior military, diplomatic and political representatives of both
countries.

Clinton sought to appease the Pakistani government and public opinion bruised by
recent criticism from the US. "I want to say publicly what many of us have said
privately: the United States has no stronger partner when it comes to
counter-terrorism efforts against the extremists who threaten us both than
Pakistan," she said.

The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, standing beside Clinton,
said: "There are still tongue-in-cheek comments, even in this capital, about
Pakistan's heart not really being in this fight," he said. "We do not know what
greater evidence to offer than the blood of our people. Madam secretary, we are
determined to win this fight."

US congressional approval is likely to be forthcoming, but sceptical members
will raise awkward questions, especially after reports last year that earlier
military aid to Pakistan had gone missing or was diverted from counter-terrorism
to bolstering defences against India.

Congress has also expressed concerns about human rights abuses by the Pakistani
military, in particular over its offensive in the Swat valley last year. Under
US law, the Obama administration is planning to withhold military aid going to
any units involved in alleged human rights abuses.

"If there is going to be progress against al-Qaida, we need the support of the
Pakistani army," the Democratic senator, Patrick Leahy, said yesterday.

"But there is a lot of concern with extrajudicial killings by the army that
remain unpunished, and this will be a factor when we consider a request for more
aid. Respect for our law and the laws of war is fundamental."

The military aid comes on top of $7.5bn in civilian assistance already promised
for the next five years.

The US hopes that Pakistani military offensives against Taliban and al-Qaida
bases along the Afghanistan border will help reduce violence in Afghanistan. But
the aid is also aimed at stabilising Pakistan at a time when Washington is
fearful of the country, and its nuclear weapons, falling into the hands of
Islamist extremists.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

Pakistan: Intelligence report says many shrines at risk of terror attacks

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report by Asad Kharal headlined "Shrines at risk of terrorist attacks"
published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 25 October

Lahore: Only 58, out of a total 319 shrines (darbars) across the province, have
security arrangements, that too inadequate, revealed a survey report prepared by
a provincial intelligence agency. The remaining 261 shrines have no security at
all and are at risk of terrorist attacks, it said. The Punjab Home Department
had directed a provincial intelligence agency to conduct a secret survey of all
shrines in the province after series of attacks on shrines in Lahore and
Karachi. Sources told Daily Times that the purpose of this exercise was to
prepare a strategy and ensure foolproof arrangements at shrines to avert any
untoward incident in the future. According to the report, 22 shrines are
situated in Lahore region, 15 in Gujranwala, 22 in Sheikhupura, 85 in
Rawalpindi, 25 in Multan, 30 in Bahawalpur, 33 in Sargodha while 21 shrines are
located in Dera Ghazi Khan region. The survey officials found no security
arrangements at 261 shrines, but the security at 58 others was also not
satisfactory. Through a circular, the home department has directed the inspector
general of Punjab Police, all divisional commissioners, regional police
officers, city police officers and district police officers to personally visit
shrines and ensure preventive measures to foil nefarious designs of terrorists.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 25 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

Algerian police chief says "safe" from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 429 words


Text of report by Fateh Agoune headlined: "Algiers Is Safe from the Terrorist
Threat, According to the Director General for National Security," published by
Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 24 October

On Sunday, 24 October, Major General Abdelghani Hamel, the Director General of
National Security [DGSN], indicated that Algiers was safe from terrorist
attacks. He said he thought the potential for a new attack by the armed groups
in the capital city was "very low."

Major General Hamel, who was speaking at his first press conference since
assuming office this past 7 July, defended the increase in the number of the
road blocks and the check points by the security agencies in and around Algiers.
"These roadblocks have been studied. Some are part of the mechanism for fighting
terrorism, others are designed to fight the drug trafficking," he explained.
These roadblocks, which create traffic jams, particularly at the eastern entry
into the capital city, have been decried by motorists.

Mr Hamel indicated that the country's security coverage had now hit 70 per cent.
The DGNS also mentioned the national police's internal situation. He announced
that the managers in that institution should have university degrees. "I do not
want middle and primary levels," he said. The major general also wants to lower
the age of police management staffing. "A commissioner's age should not exceed
50 and that of the principal commissioner should not exceed 52," he added during
this meeting with the press, which was held at the Graduate Police School in
Algiers.

Mr Hamel added that 23 police officials have been promoted to the rank of chief
of province security, eight security chiefs had been transferred to other
provinces, and the other 17 kept in their posts. The major general ruled out
creating a special commission to punish police managers who had been prosecuted
within the justice system. "We already have a disciplinary commission," Mr Hamel
said, who told of his opposition to the establishment of a police union in the
immediate future.

Last, Major General Hamel denied having issued a massive appeal to National
Gendarmerie managers to occupy posts in the police. "I appealed to two
Gendarmerie non-commissioned officers [NCOs]. That was all," he added.

Major General Hamel, 55, officially assumed his duties this past 7 July. He
replaced Colonel Ali Tounsi, who was assassinated this past 25 February in his
office. A Tlemcen native, Major General Hamel had been chief of the Republican
Guard.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 24 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

Terrorist attack on Russian power plant solved - deputy prosecutor

LENGTH: 130 words


Excerpt from report in English by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 25 October: The terrorist attack committed by militants at the
Baksanskaya hydroelectric power plant in Kabarda-Balkaria has been solved,
Deputy Russian Prosecutor-General for the North Caucasus and Southern Federal
Districts Ivan Sydoruk said on Monday [25 October] at an extended meeting of the
Russian Federation Council Committee on Legal and Judicial Issues.

"The terrorist attack at the Baksanskaya hydroelectric power plant was solved
last week," he said. "Two attackers were killed, two were detained and are
actively giving evidence. Another two have been put on the wanted list," he
added.

[Passage omitted: background information].

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in English 1101 gmt 25 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan paper flays government's "dismal failure" to prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of editorial headlined "Shattered peace" published by Pakistani newspaper
The News website on 26 October

Another shrine has been struck - this time in the city of Pakpattan. The target
this time was the mausoleum of Baba Farid, which stands as one of the most
significant Sufi places of worship and devotion in the country. By detonating a
bomb placed, according to official reports, in a milk container, the extremists
have demonstrated their desire to drive people away from shrines. People are to
be denied even the comfort of seeking solace in prayer or merely benefitting
from the sense of peace many say they feel when present at these shrines -
temporarily detached from the many sorrows that fill their lives.

Six have died in the latest attack, more than twice that number is injured. The
blast ripping through the quiet dawn air has also caused a deep sense of trauma.
Its effects were visible on the panic-filled faces of those gathered at the
shrine. But with panic, there is also growing anger. People ask why those behind
the blasts have not been apprehended, why there has been only limited movement
in this respect and who stands accountable for the dismal failure of our police
and other units which back them to go after the terrorists and, by doing so,
give the people back some of the peace they have so tragically lost.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Police train to fight terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 162 words


Police are being given more powerful guns and extra training to prepare for a
possible Mumbai-style terror attack in the UK, it was reported today.

Security chiefs are staging a series of counter-terrorism exercises with police
sharpshooters training alongside units of the elite SAS under the plans, the BBC
said.

The development follows the interception last month by British intelligence
officials of a credible al Qaida-linked plot.

That would have reportedly been similar to the deadly commando-style raids in
Mumbai, India, two years ago, which left 166 people dead and several hundred
injured after attacks by Islamic militants.

Cities in France and Germany were also targeted as part of the plot.

Ex-security minister Lord West told the BBC that police officers needed to be
properly trained to deal with similar terror attacks.

The UK's terror threat rating remains at "severe", the second highest rating,
where it has been since increasing from "substantial" in January.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Police  get SAS training for terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: UKP; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 208 words


Police are being given more powerful guns and extra training to prepare for a
possible Mumbai-style terror attack, it has been reported.

UK security chiefs  are staging a series  of counter-terrorism exercises with
police sharpshooters training alongside units of the elite SAS under the plans,
the BBC said.

The development follows the interception last month by British intelligence
officials of a credible al Qaida-linked plot.

That would have reportedly been similar to the deadl raids in India two years
ago, which left 166 people dead and  hundreds more injured.

Cities in France and Germany were also targeted as part of the plot.

Former security minister Lord West told the BBC police needed to be properly
trained to deal with similar attacks.

He said:  These people like the Mumbai terrorists, are a bit like soldiers, they
do fire and support, move forward, all they want to do is kill as many people as
possible, with heavier weapons than our police.

Therefore you have to give heavy weapons to the police and train them how to do
it.

There is no way, except at immense cost, you could have SAS-level troops in
every part of the country to be able to respond in the timescale you d need. The
police are there and have to do that first response.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1st Edition

POLICE GIVEN BETTER GUNS;
Officers train for terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 249 words


POLICE are being given more powerful guns and extra training to prepare for a
possible Mumbai-style terror attack in the UK, it was reported today.

Security chiefs are staging a series of counter-terrorism exercises with police
sharpshooters training alongside units of the elite SAS under the plans,
according to reports.

The development follows the interception last month by British intelligence
officials of a credible al Qaida-linked plot.

That would have reportedly been similar to the deadly commando-style raids in
Mumbai, India, two years ago, which left 166 people dead and several hundred
injured.

Cities in France and Germany were also targeted as part of the plot.

Former security minister Lord West said police officers needed to be properly
trained to deal with similar terror attacks.

He said: ''These people like the Mumbai terrorists are a bit like soldiers, they
do fire and support, move forward, all they want to do is kill as many people as
possible, with slightly heavier weapons than our police have.

''And therefore you have to give heavy weapons to the police and train them how
to do it.

''There is no way, except at immense cost, you could have SAS-level trained
troops in every part of the country to be able to respond in the timescale you'd
need. The police are there and have to do that first response.'' The UK's terror
threat rating remains at ''severe'' -the second highest rating -where it has
been since increasing from ''substantial'' in January.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cops ready for terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 101 words


POLICE are to be armed with superguns and given SAS training to help them
prepare for a potential Mumbai-style terror attack on home soil, it has been
revealed.

Security bosses want Britain to be prepared for large scale attacks like the
killing spree in India two years ago.

They plan to make bigger guns available to more officers as well as using
training techniques usually reserved for elite forces like the SAS.

Paul Davis, of the Police Federation, said the plans would mean the wider use of
"super" weapons.

He said: "It is in our interests to make sure our officers have the best
training and equipment."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARMED AND DANGEROUS: Police officers have to prepare for terror threats

THREAT: Mumbai aftermath and killer, left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            East Anglian Daily Times

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday

Terrorist attack advice for firms

BYLINE: Sarah Chambers

SECTION: BIZZ

LENGTH: 435 words


A COUNTER terrorism security adviser will be showing managers what they can do
to protect organisations, staff and members of the public from an attack when he
addresses a talk next week. Douglas Paine, the adviser for Suffolk, will be
explaining the nature of the terrorist threat at a Chartered Management
Institute (CMI) event at the Astral Centre, St Peter's Street, Lowestoft, at
6.30pm on Monday, November 1. Those attending will learn about Project ARGUS, a
National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative which explores ways to
help businesses in preventing, preparing for, handling or recovering from a
terrorist attack. Entry is free to CMI members and non-members. To book a place,
contact Tony Tibbenham at ttibbenham@ssdm.co.uk or phone 01502 527009. East
Anglian firms are being urged to prepare for the VAT rate increase on January 4.
Business adviser Grant Thornton said firms should make ready for the rise, from
17.5% to 20%, which will affect any business that sells or purchases goods or
services and are subject to the standard rate.

"The VAT rate increase means potential accounting and record-keeping
difficulties for businesses," said Grant Thornton's VAT director for the region,
Anne Holt. "It is more important than ever to ensure you have the correct
systems and procedures in place before the New Year. Businesses failing to take
due care in establishing appropriate systems and procedures could suffer from a
reduction in profits or even penalties." East Anglian chartered accountancy firm
Ensors has joined CPA Associates International (CPAAI), a worldwide association
of independent accounting and business consulting firms. Ensors managing partner
Danny Clifford said: "We are delighted to have joined CPA Associates
International and be able to offer our clients in the UK access to worldwide
expertise and advice. As the world gets smaller and advances in technology
encourage businesses to expand their cross-border activities, it is essential to
be on hand with up-to-date, quality advice to support clients." Builders'
merchant Kent Blaxill urged the Coalition Government to support a plan to
renovate and insulate existing homes as Colchester LibDem MP Bob Russell paid
the firm a visit on Friday. The Builders' Merchants Federation's (BMF) Plan B,
drawn up before last week's public spending announcement, was explained to Mr
Russell by the firm's managing director Simon Blaxill, who outlined how the firm
was coping with the downturn and by BMF policy manager Brett Amphlett. Mr
Amphlett said: "Construction equals real, purposeful jobs and enduring economic
growth."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2010 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

County police training for Mumbai-style terror attack

BYLINE: NADIA STONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words


POLICE in Gloucestershire will be given SAS-style training to prepare for a
potential terrorist attack.

Former security minister Lord Alan West says officers need to be trained to deal
with terror attacks similar to one in Mumbai two years ago - and Gloucestershire
police say the county is a prime target because it houses the Government's GCHQ
intelligence headquarters.

Derek Jones, chief inspector of operations at Gloucestershire police, said: "Our
officers will be updating their skills in line with developments nationally and
internationally. "The police service has a good track record for gathering
intelligence in order to prevent incidents from occurring and are much better
placed than ever before with dedicated counter terrorism units based in each
region.

"Officers across the country continue to train so that they are able to deal
with such eventualities, should they arise.

"As with all operational issues we are always looking at ways of improving our
response and the police service is working in partnership with other agencies to
enhance our capacity and capabilities."

Councillor Rob Garnham, chairman of Gloucestershire Police Authority, said he
welcomed any move that could help prepare the county for an attack.

He said: "Terrorist incidents are extremely rare, but we must ensure that when
they do occur we are fully capable of dealing with these incidents. We don't
know what might happen in the future and training to enhance the capability of
our officers is to be welcomed."

Gloucestershire defence expert Air Vice Marshall Tony Mason said he was aware,
from personal experience, of the importance of intelligence and the need to have
forces in readiness to respond to possible terrorist attacks.

He said he suspected that Government agencies, such as Cheltenham-based GCHQ,
would already be well prepared.

Instead, he felt security officials would be considering how to protect softer
targets in Gloucestershire.

He said: "Mumbai was an attack against the general public.

Therefore, in this county, of particular concern would be major events where
there are large numbers of people."

Earlier this month workers at GCHQ helped foil a UK terror attack.

Terrorists plotting the attack were identified when GCHQ matched their voices
against a secret database.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2010 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday

Algeria's "terrorists" film "made-up attacks" - paper

LENGTH: 312 words


Text of report by Sounia Q, headlined "Terrorists carry out made-up attacks;
they film them to satisfy the emirs" published by privately-owned Algerian
newspaper Echourouk El Youmi website on 28 October

Echourouk learnt from well-informed sources that a repentant terrorist who
recently surrendered to the authorities in Sidi Ali Bounab revealed many false
truths about the Salafi Group in the Kabylie region.

This group tries to use all the deceptive methods to delude the public opinion
into believing that they are still strong. This comes despite the fact that only
the extremist members of this group survived, because they are strongly attached
to emir Abdelmalek Droudkal, who is known as Mousab Abdelouadoud.

The repentant said in an interesting statement that terrorists working in
"Ennour brigade" had faked their control over an area by filming imaginary
murders and editing the material professionally. Then they send the material to
the emirs to delude them into believing that they are carrying out criminal
attacks against the citizens and the security forces. This happens in order to
obtain the satisfaction of the emirs, and especially the financial award in
return for their attacks.

The repentant terrorist confessed that three terrorists were liquidated last
August after they were tortured, because they refused to appear in one of the
videos that were about to be sent to the group officials. They did this for fear
of the exposure of their psychological defeat and that they are not carrying out
any armed acts.

On the other hand, Echourouk learned that the army search operation in Sidi Ali
Bounab forests - between Tizi Ouzou and Boumerdes provinces - are still ongoing
for the sixth consecutive day. The joint forces are in control of the area,
where around 40 terrorists are besieged.

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 28 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday

Russian chief investigator notes sharp rise in terrorist attacks in 2010

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 28 October: The number of terrorist acts in Russia in January-September
this year was more than double that in the same period last year, Investigations
Committee Head Aleksandr Bastrykin said at an open meeting of the committee's
board on Thursday [28 October].

"For several years now, the number of registered crimes in Russia has been going
down. At the same time we are worried by the high share of grave and gravest
crimes: they account for over one quarter of the overall number of crimes (27
per cent)," Bastrykin said.

Thus, he said, the number of terrorist acts increased by 150 per cent in the
past nine months compared with the same period last year (from 11 to 27).

"The number of extremist crimes rose by 19 per cent," the committee head noted.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0926 gmt 28 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: US envoy says drone attacks part of war against terror

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report by leading private Pakistani satellite TV channel Geo News
website on 29 October

Karachi: US Ambassador to Pakistan Cameron Munter said the drone attacks were
part of war against terrorism and were targeted against the militants, Geo News
reported Friday [29 October].

In an interaction with media here today top US official said Pakistan was an
important ally in war against terror and we acknowledged the sacrifices rendered
by our Pakistani friends.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 29 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US 'failure' in terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 86 words


India accused the United States yesterday of failing to warn it about the
terrorist connections of a key figure in the 2008 Mumbai attacks.

It believes David Headley, who has admitted carrying out reconnaissance missions
for the attacks, could have been arrested had the United States passed on two
warnings they received from his two wives.

"We were disappointed that the name of David Headley was not provided," said GK
Pillai, the home secretary.

Had the information been shared, India could have "nabbed him", he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday

Turkish Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attack in Iraq

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 31 October: The Turkish ministry of foreign affairs condemned Saturday
[30 October] the recent terrorist attack waged in Iraq's Diyala province.

Releasing a written statement, the Turkish foreign ministry expressed Turkey's
deep sorrow over Friday's terrorist attack and said that the attack clearly
targeted Iraqi nation's unity as well as the efforts aiming to overcome the
problems Iraqis faced in the political process leading to a national consensus
in the country.

"We are confident that the Iraqi nation will act with common sense and fail
these terrorist attacks," the ministry said.

The statement also noted that Turkey would continue to extend support to Iraq in
an effort to help the country establish security, peace and stability.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1007 gmt 31 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday

Turkey: Istanbul governor says suicide blast appears to be terrorist attack

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Istanbul, 31 October: Istanbul Governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu said about Sunday [31
October] morning's explosion in the central Taksim Square, "it appears to be a
terror act" Mutlu told reporters, "I strongly condemn those who are responsible
for this heinous act. A male bomber detonated the explosive close to a spot in
Taksim square where riot police were stationed. Twelve people including ten
police officers were injured. None of them are in life-threatening condition.
Four of them are hospitalized."

He said that no one claimed responsibility for the attack yet.

Taksim Square takes place at the heart of Turkey's biggest city Istanbul and it
is a major tourist attraction and transport hub, surrounded by restaurants,
shops and hotels

A number of avenues and streets around Istanbul's central Taksim Square have
been closed to traffic after Sunday morning's explosion.

Police cordoned off the scene of the attack and took tight measures after a
suspected suicide bomber detonated a device, injuring 22 people including 10
police officers. The attack caused major damage in a police bus stationed in the
square.

The blast also shattered windows of nearby buildings and vehicles.

The body, believed to be that of the suicide bomber, was still lying near the
site of the explosion, covered over with newspapers.

It was the third suicide bombing targeting police officers in Taksim Square in
the last eleven years.

On March 27, 1999, a suicide bomber blew himself up in the square injuring ten
people including three police officers.

The second attack occurred on September 10, 2001. Two policemen were killed
while 20 people including 13 policemen and 7 civilians were injured.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1051 gmt 31 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                October 31, 2010
                                  Main Edition

TERRORIST ATTACK ON PLANE ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words


TERRORIST ATTACK ON PLANE

THE target for a bomb found on a cargo plane in England may have been the
aircraft itself, Home Secretary Theresa May said today.

Speaking after a Cobra meeting, the UK Government's emergency planning committee
to discuss the security situation, Ms May told reporters the device found on a
cargo plane at East Midlands Airport could have blown the airliner out of the
sky.

She said: "The target may have been an aircraft and had it detonated the
aircraft could have been brought down.

"I can confirm that the device was viable and could have exploded.

"We do not believe that the perpetrators of the attack would have known the
location of the device when it was planned to explode.

"Our investigation remains sensitive. We are working closely with international
partners to increase our understanding of this case and of course to bring those
responsible to justice.

"At this stage there is no information to indicate another attack is imminent."

The Home Secretary said the threat level was at "severe", meaning a terrorist
attack in the UK is "highly likely" and there was no plan to change the level at
this stage.

But she said: "We must take further precautionary measures. I have agreed with
the Transport Secretary (Philip Hammond) that we will take immediate action to
stop the movement of all unaccompanied air freight originating from Yemen into
or through the UK.

"Direct cargo and passenger flights from the Yemen were suspended in January
this year for security reasons following an earlier attempt to bomb an aircraft
destined for Detroit."

CAPTION: VIGILANT: Theresa May

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Obama commemorates 2008 Mumbai terror attacks at Taj Hotel on first day of Asia
tour

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 169 words


India: U.S. President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama begin 8-day
trip to Asia with a four-day visit to India beginning in Mumbai, where he
delivers a speech at the restored Taj Mahal Palace hotel to commemorate the 31
people who died during the Nov 2008 terrorist attacks on the city. His entourage
have booked all 547 rooms at the recently reopened hotel. The President then
visits the Gandhi Museum before attending a business summit organised by the
U.S.-India Business Council where he joins a roundtable with entrepreneurs and a
roundtable with some U.S. CEOs for a discussion on the challenges and
opportunities of doing business in India, and then delivers a centerpiece speech
to delegates. U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke also participates.
 President Obama will travel on to Jakarta in Indonesia on 9 Nov, then to Seoul
in South Korea for the G20 summit on 11-12 Nov; and to Yokohama in Japan

Event Start Date: 2010-11-06

Event End Date: 2010-11-14

Event URL: http://www.whitehouse.gov/president

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2010 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Terrorist Attack in Istanbul, Turkey

LENGTH: 111 words


October 31, 2010

Washington, DC --The United States condemns today's terrorist attack in
Istanbul, Turkey, which brutally targeted innocent civilians in one of the
city's busiest squares. This is a shocking crime and the people of the United
States stand in solidarity with our friends the people of Turkey. We hope to see
the perpetrators brought to swift justice and stand ready to offer any
assistance and support. The United States will continue to work with Turkey to
combat violent extremism and to safeguard the security of peace-loving people
everywhere. Today our thoughts and prayers are with those who were wounded and
with all the people of Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday

Aquino admits country's 'vulnerabilities' to terror attacks; security tightened

LENGTH: 1200 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Manila Times website on 2
November

[Report by Agence France-Presse, Cris G. Odronia and William B. Depasupil:
"Aquino assures RP security; Admits country's 'vulnerabilities' to terror
attacks"]

President Benigno Aquino 3rd said that he was bothered by a foiled terror attack
targeting the United States but assured that security in the Philippines has
been tightened. He admitted to the country's "vulnerabilities" especially after
a recent deadly bomb attack in southern Philippines that left at least 10
persons dead.

"Medyo nakakagambala. Pinadala sa mail [It is a bit worrisome. The plot was to
be carried out through the mail]," President Aquino said during a chance
interview upon his arrival from Vietnam on Sunday evening.

Qatar Airways also on Sunday said that a package containing explosives was flown
from Sanaa (the capital of Yemen) to Doha (the capital of Qatar) and then on to
Dubai on one of its aircraft.

A source said on condition of anonymity that the plane was a passenger flight.

The bomb had PETN (pentaerythritol tetranitrate) hidden inside a computer
printer with a circuit board and mobile phone SIM (Subscriber Identity Module)
card attached, officials said.

The other parcel was found at East Midlands airport in central England and
apparently travelled through Cologne in Germany.

British Prime Minister David Cameron said that it appeared designed to blow up a
plane.

Shortly after the discovery of the bombs, Britain banned all freight from Yemen
from coming into the country, including in transit.

On Saturday, Germany and France took similar measures to suspend air freight
from Yemen.

Addressed to Chicago-area synagogues, the suspicious packages triggered
worldwide fears that al-Qaeda was launching a major new terror campaign.

President Aquino said that the country's security had been stepped up even
before a recent bus bombing in North Cotabato province in troubled southern
Mindanao.

On October 21, an explosion ripped through a bus in Matalam town, killing at
least 10 passengers.

Domestic threats

"So far, all of our intel agencies tell us that if there are threats, naghigpit
na tayo bago pa ng bombing ng bus, lalo pa after ng bombing ng bus . . . merong
vulnerabilities. So, ang tinitingnan natin ngayon primarily the domestic threats
[So far, all our intelligence agencies tell us if there are threats, we had
tightened security even before the bus bombing . . . there are vulnerabilities.
So, what we are looking at primarily are domestic threats]," the President said.

He added that when he met with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia
in Vietnam during his state visit to Hanoi in late October, they agreed to
cooperate closely in the fight against terrorism.

Mr Aquino said that the government would come up with "programmes to involve the
citizens further in helping us monitor the entire country at all times."

As part of comprehensive precautionary measures against possible terrorist
attacks, the police and military began conducting intelligence and surveillance
operations in airports, seaports and other vulnerable areas.

Brig. Gen. Jose Mabanta Jr., the spokesman for the Armed Forces of the
Philippines, also on Monday said that they were watching a number of Islamist
groups with links to the al-Qaeda and so-called sleeper terrorist cells
operating in the country.

Mabanta told The Manila Times that they have pinpointed these groups including
the Abu Sayyaf that operates in southern Mindanao.

Islamist groups

"But not all Islamist groups have terrorist links," he clarified.

Director General Raul Bacalzo of the Philippine National Police also on Monday
said that he has ordered intensified intelligence and monitoring operations also
in airports, seaports and malls.

According to him, there is no actual threat of a terrorist attack on the
Philippines.

"Threat or no threat, we could not afford to be complacent. We must always be on
our guard," Bacalzo said.

Yemen also on Monday announced a crackdown on all cargo shipments aft er two
US-bound bomb parcels were sent from the country, while an alleged Saudi Arabian
bomb maker emerged as key suspect behind the package plot.

State news agency Saba said Yemen's national committee for civil aviation
security has decided "to implement exceptional security measures on all cargo
leaving Yemeni airports to ensure the safety of civil aviation."

The committee in a statement also decided to tighten general security at all
Yemeni airports, to counteract "methods used by terror organizations," Saba
added.

A US official in Washington, meanwhile, said Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, a
28-year-old alleged al-Qaeda bomb maker, had emerged as a "leading suspect" in
the parcel bomb plot uncovered on Thursday.

"Al-Asiri's past activities and explosives' experience make him a leading
suspect," added the official, who requested anonymity.

The militant, thought to be hiding in Yemen, is wanted for a string of
high-profile attacks linked to al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), the
Yemen-based branch of Osama bin Laden's network.

"There are indications he may have had a role in past AQAP plots, including the
attempted assassination of a Saudi official and last year's failed Christmas Day
attack," the official said.

US counter-terrorism chief John Brennan also linked the attempted Christmas Day
bombing and the package plot, both of which involved the high explosive PETN.

Evidence suggested the same person built the intercepted parcel bombs and the
device worn by the "underwear" bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab who botched an
attack on a flight to Detroit on Christmas Day 2009, he said.

"I think the indications are right now based on the forensics analysis that it's
an individual who has been responsible for putting these devices together, the
same," he told ABC News on Sunday.

"He's a very dangerous individual - clearly somebody who has a fair amount of
training and experience."

Most wanted

Asiri features on most-wanted terror lists in both Yemen and Saudi Arabia.

In August 2009, he sent his 23-year-old younger brother on a suicide mission,
with 100 grams of PETN underneath his white Saudi robe, to kill Saudi
intelligence chief Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, who was wounded but survived.

US officials have said the parcel bombs intercepted in Dubai and Britain were
addressed to synagogues in Chicago.

In Yemen, a medical student detained on Saturday after being tracked down
through a mobile number written on the explosives-filled packages was released
the following day, her father said.

A Yemeni official said Hanan al-Samawi, 22, was freed on condition she present
herself for further questioning if required.

Hundreds of students rallied at Sanaa University Sunday calling for Samawi's
release.

Meanwhile the Hood rights group said it had information that "all employees"
from the Sanaa offices of FedEx and UPS - the courier firms reportedly used for
the parcels - had also been held for questioning.

Yemeni officials have said that they were examining 26 other seized packages and
overhauling their security system on cargo.

Britain also said that it will review how freight is screened.

Source: The Manila Times website, Manila, in English 2 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday

UK, Australia warn Manila terrorist attack "imminent"

LENGTH: 750 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
3 November

[Report by Pia Lee-Brago and Alexis Romero: "Australia, UK: High Terror Threat
in Metro Manila"]

Manila, Philippines -Australia and the United Kingdom have warned that a
terrorist attack is imminent in Metro Manila.

Reliable reports indicate that terrorist attacks might be imminent in Metro
Manila, including places frequented by foreigners such as large shopping malls
and convention centres, according to the Australian embassy.

The British embassy advised its citizens of the high terrorist threat in the
Philippines.

The two embassies did not indicate whether their travel advisories were updated
after airport authorities were placed on heightened vigilance in the wake of a
terror plot that was foiled in the United States last week.

Australia has advised its citizens to exercise a high degree of caution in the
Philippines because of the high threat of terrorist attack.

"We continue to receive credible reports indicating terrorists are planning
attacks against a range of targets in a variety of locations, including places
frequented by foreigners," read the advisory. "You should avoid places known to
be terrorist targets."

The Australian embassy said terrorist attacks, including bombings, are possible
any time, anywhere in the Philippines, including Metro Manila.

Australian citizens were advised against travelling to Mindanao, particularly
the Zamboanga peninsula as well as Sulu, Basilan and Tawi-Tawi, due to the high
threat of terrorist attacks including kidnapping.

Armed clashes between security forces and rebels, including the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, could occur without warning, particularly in central Mindanao,
the embassy said.

The Australian embassy said terrorist groups continue to plan attacks and have
the capacity and the intent to carry out these attacks at any time and any place
in the country.

"Such places could include, but are not limited to, airports, shopping malls and
places of worship," read the advisory.

Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers, the embassy added.

The British embassy advised its citizens against all travel to southwest
Mindanao, covering the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, including the
islands of Basilan, Sulu and Tawi-Tawi, the eastern provinces of Sarangani,
North and South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Lanao del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur and
Zamboanga Sibugay.

"We advise against all but essential travel to the remainder of Mindanao because
of ongoing terrorist activity," read the advisory.

The embassy said the government is taking action against the terrorist and
kidnapping threat.

It has tightened security in Metro Manila and other areas considered at high
risk, including airports and seaports, the embassy added.

Military: Foreign terrorists pose more threat than rebels

Foreign terrorists pose more threat to the country than the rebels, the military
said yesterday.

Armed Forces spokesman Brig. Gen. Jose Mabanta Jr said the military is setting
its sights on external threats and will hand over internal security to the
police.

"We feel that the AFP [Armed Forces of the Philippines] has been doing a good
job in internal security operations and the strength of the CPP-NPA (Communist
Party of the Philippines-New People's Army) has been down to less than 5,000,"
he said.

"When we talk of external threats, what comes to our mind are terrorists
emanating from foreign lands, so this we feel is a more potent threat at this
point in time and we are prepared for it."

Mabanta said the military is now intensifying intelligence operations and
training of troops to address the terrorist threat.

"We are stepping up our intelligence operations, particularly deployment in
possible entry points," he said.

"We monitor dubious organizations which have possible links to all of these
extremists and fundamentalists such as al-Qaeda and Jemaah Islamiyah.

"We continue to train our forces for any eventuality. We are talking about our
elite forces, the JSOG (Joint Special Operations Group), which (has been)
upgrading their skills and their equipment."

Mabanta said some portions of Mindanao are "sensitive" areas due to the
proliferation of firearms.

"But let me make it clear that at this point there is no imminent danger," he
said. "The most important is we are watchful and we are aware that there is a
potential threat."

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 3 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday

OIC chief condemns "criminal and terrorist" attacks in Iraqi capital

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[SPA Headline: "OIC Secretary General Condemns Criminal Act in Baghdad"]

Jedda, Dhu Al-Qa'dah 26, 1431 / Nov. 3, 2010, SPA - Secretary General of
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) Professor Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu
strongly condemned the criminal and terrorist act which targeted unarmed
civilians in Baghdad, killing and wounding a large number of innocent people.

The Secretary General urged the Iraqi people to preserve their unity and combat
terrorist acts aimed at provoking strife among Iraq's sects, and to commit to
the 2006 Makkah [Mecca] document sponsored by the Organization of the Islamic
Conference to renounce violence and extremism.

He also emphasized the need to accelerate the formation of an Iraqi government
in order to help maintain security and stability in Iraq for the good of this
country and the region.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 3 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    November 3, 2010 Wednesday 08:57 AM GMT

Warning over terror attacks in Manila

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 516 words


The US and Australia today warned of possible terrorist attacks in Manila and
the southern Philippines, sparking a security alarm in the bustling capital with
additional deployments of police patrols and intelligence agents.

Although the US and Australia have previously issued similar security alerts for
the volatile southern Philippines, where Muslim rebels and al Qaida militants
are active, both specifically mentioned Manila as a possible target in their
latest travel advisories.

Australia, citing unspecified but reliable reports, said an attack in the
capital may be "imminent".

Philippine defence secretary Voltaire Gazmin said that the military and police
have not monitored any specific threat but that the government is taking no
chances.

The Western countries, along with Britain, warned their citizens visiting the
Philippines to stay away from shopping malls, convention centres and places
frequented by foreigners. The warnings did not identify the source of the threat
or release other details.

"Reliable reports indicate that terrorist attacks may be imminent in Manila,"
said Australia's advisory posted on a government website.

British Embassy deputy chief of mission Colin Crorkin said the UK assessment of
the high risks of terrorist strikes in the Philippines had not changed but added
that the UK Government recently included additional possible targets such as
airports, malls and places of worship.

A Philippine official said the warnings may have come from a confidential
terrorist threat assessment report by Western security officials indicating that
unspecified Muslim extremists may attack a popular Manila mall, a trade centre
and political figures, including Manila-based diplomats.

Mr Gazmin said the Manila government had sent intelligence agents to verify the
threat. Authorities also plan to ask the US, Australian and British embassies to
provide more details.

"We are taking this seriously, and we know that this is creating apprehension.
We have deployed intelligence agents but they have not come back with anything
specific."

He said he discussed with the military chief of staff, Lieutenant General
Ricardo David, the possible deployment of marines in shopping malls and other
public areas. However, Mr Gazmin was reluctant to take that step because it has
been criticised in the past by leftist lawmakers.

The Philippines, including its capital, has been hit by deadly terrorist attacks
in the past.

Despite years of battle setbacks, Muslim militants, including those from the al
Qaida-linked Abu Sayyaf, have continued to plot attacks, at times collaborating
with Indonesian militants belonging to the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network,
according to the military.

Abu Sayyaf militants were blamed for the bombing of an inter-island ferry in
Manila Bay in 2004, setting off an inferno that killed 116 people in south-east
Asia's second-worst terrorist strike.

The militants also claimed responsibility for the February 2005 bombings of a
bus in Manila's Makati financial district and two other southern towns that
killed eight people and wounded more than 100 others.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

MP attack student linked to terror plotters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words


A STUDENT who tried to murder an MP was inspired by a radical al Qaida cleric
linked to the air cargo bomb plot, it emerged last night.

Roshonara Choudhry, 21, stabbed former Labour minister Stephen Timms twice in
the stomach after watching online sermons by US-born Anwar al-Awlaki. The wanted
preacher is thought to be behind the bomb plot involving packages sent from
Yemen - where he is based.

US investigators believe he is also linked to the US army base killings in Fort
Hood, Texas, as well as last year's Christmas airline bomb attempt, and the
failed Times Square bombing.

Choudhry's attack on Mr Timms is thought to be the first al Qaida-inspired
attempt to assassinate a politician on British soil.

After her arrest, she told detectives that she attacked Mr Timms during a
constituency surgery in May in revenge for his voting for the war in Iraq.

Choudhry, of East Ham, east London, had also drawn up a list of other MPs who
had backed the UK's military action. A source said: "She had researched the
voting of a number of MPs on the Iraq war."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

KAYA'S TERROR AS SHAMELESS ELLIOTT ATTACKED AT COURT

BYLINE: RYAN SABEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 175 words


SKINS actress Kaya Scodelario screamed in terror yesterday as her Shameless TV
star boyfriend Elliott Tittensor was attacked outside court.

The actor, 20, had just been fined over a car accident which left a plumber
blind in one eye.

An onlooker said: "A guy tapped him on the shoulder and smacked him in the
stomach."

Sobbing Kaya, 18 - Effy Stonem in E4 drama Skins - was bundled into a car with
Tittensor as police grappled with his attacker. A man, 46, was arrested for
affray and questioned.

Tittensor - who plays Carl Gallagher in the C4 series - was fined £750 for
driving without insurance at Highbury Magistrates' Court, North London.

Victim Oliver Flint, 18, had fallen off the bonnet of the actor's slow-moving
BMW - striking his head on a kerb - in Kentish Town in August. It was ruled that
Tittensor, of Heywood, Lancs, had "acted in self-defence in driving in the
manner in which he did".

But Flint's mother urged the CPS to review its decision not to prosecute over
his injuries. Lulu Taddei, 45, said: "I want justice."

r.sabey@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blind ... Oliver
In Skins ... as Effy
Elliott ... as Carl
Couple ... arriving at court
Grapple ... the attacker is grabbed outside Highbury Magistrates' Court as
Tittensor, circled, watches on

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Sheerness Times Guardian

                                November 4, 2010

Workers taught how to deal with terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 355 words


by Emma Grove

egrove@thekmgroup.co.uk

REPRESENTATIVES from Sheppey businesses have been given a lesson in how to deal
with a terrorist attack.

A meeting was organised by Swale Safe, a partnership between Kent Police and
Swale council to reduce crime, and took place at the Hope Street Centre in
Sheerness.

The event, called Project ARGUS, is part of a National Counter Terrorism
Security Office initiative designed to help businesses prevent, handle and
recover from a terrorist attack.

People attending the meeting included employees at an Island amusement arcade
and the leisure centre. They were taken through a simulated terrorist attack via
a multi-media presentation and given questions to answer about how they would
react.

Kevin Jupp and Steve Burr, of Kent Police's counter-terrorism unit, then talked
the participants through their answers.

Although they said there are no right or wrong answers, there are some things
which people should do after an attack, such as phoning 999. They said quite
often it does not get done because everyone thinks someone has done it.

They also gave advice on how businesses can prepare for an attack, including
having a "grab bag" with items such as water, a phone, and a first-aid kit in.

Mr Jupp said they were not giving the meeting on the Island because they know
something is going to happen here, but because there is a real threat to the
whole of the UK.

He said: "The threat to our country from international terrorism is severe,
which means an attack is highly likely."

* To find out more about Swale Safe, visit www.swalesafe.co.uk

'Credible threat to the whole of UK'

Chief Inspector Tony Henley, borough commander for Swale, opened the meeting.

He said: "When I drive into work in the morning, looking after the whole of
Swale, I'm not thinking 'I wonder if a bomb will go off in Swale today', but it
is a credible threat to the whole of the UK, and it is relevant to us in
Sheppey."

Libby Tucker, a swimming instructor at Sheppey Leisure Complex, went along to
the meeting.

She said: "I thought it was fantastic - there were so many basic things and it
couldn't have come at a better time."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                                November 4, 2010

Billionaire's terror attack

LENGTH: 313 words


BILLIONAIRE mobile phone magnate John Caudwell was struck over the head with an
iron bar by balaclava-clad robbers who raided his £7.5 million mansion.

The Phones 4U founder's partner, 41-year-old former model Claire Johnson, and a
20-year-old maid were also assaulted as thugs targeted Broughton Hall on Monday
evening.

The offenders took an undisclosed amount of cash and jewellery, escaping over
the Eccleshall fields surrounding the Jacobean property.

Mr Caudwell, 57, was treated by paramedics and private hospital doctors for a
gashed forehead and serious bruising to his arms.

He was expected to issue a statement as the Newsletter went to press.

Staffordshire Police are appealing for anyone who saw "suspicious activity or
vehicles" in the area to come forward.

A police spokesman said: "At approximately 8.30pm on Monday, November 1, a
number of men broke into Broughton Hall in Eccleshall.

"Mr Caudwell and his partner were in the kitchen when the men burst through the
door.

"A 20-year-old woman, who is a member of staff, was also present, and both women
were assaulted but sustained no injuries.

"The offenders assaulted Mr Caudwell with what we believe to be an iron bar and
inflicted an injury to his head. They were wearing balaclavas and dark clothing.
No firearms were seen or used and we're treating this incident as aggravated
robbery." Mr Caudwell founded mobile phone business the Caudwell Group, which
included Phones 4U and was sold for £1.46 billion in 2006.

After dropping out of school to become a Michelin apprentice and then a floor
sweeper at a pottery factory, his personal fortune is now estimated at £1.3
billion.

He has contributed substantially to the charity he set up for disabled children,
Caudwell Children, and the NSPCC.

Anyone with any information is asked to call Staffordshire Police on 0300
1234455 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555111.



LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2010 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

Terror for woman in sex attack

BYLINE: Gavin Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Sex crime; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words


The 21-year-old was subjected to the terrifying attack on a night out.

She was walking in Correction Wynd, near Union Street, when she was targeted.

The victim was today left deeply traumatised by the incident, but was understood
to have escaped serious injury.

Grampian Police launched a major inquiry into the sexual assault and have
appealed for people, who were in the area at the time, to come forward.

Det Sgt Dave Allan, who was leading the inquiry, today said: "The woman
concerned was walking on Correction Wynd towards The Green when she was
approached by a man who then sexually assaulted her.

"I would like to appeal to anyone who was in the area of Correction Wynd or The
Green and who may have seen anything suspicious."

Police said the suspect was of Asian appearance, around 6ft and of stocky build.
He was wearing a dark top or jacket and blue jeans at the time of the attack.

Det Sgt Allan added: "The male may have been in the company of another Asian man
just prior to the assault. I would also appeal to this person to come forward."

The incident happened at about 2.20am yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

(Corr) Iranian grand ayatollahs condemn terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 304 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

[Filing again after correcting time of publication]

Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 6 November: Grand Ayatollahs Lotfollah Safi Golpayegani and Jafar
Sobhani, on Thursday [4 November], strongly condemned the recent terror attacks
in Iraq.

The two clerics also condemned the silence of international community and the
human rights organizations in this regard.

More than a dozen coordinated car bombings ripped through the Iraqi capital late
Tuesday [2 November] killing at least 64 people and wounding around 360.

According to security officials in Baghdad the car bombs detonated in various
parts of the city, largely in Shi'a neighbourhoods but also in several mixed and
predominantly Sunni areas.

Religious minority MPs condemn attack on Baghdad church

Moreover, the religious minorities' representatives in the parliament issued a
statement, condemning the hostage-taking incident at a Catholic church in
Baghdad.

The statement came in response to the attack on Our Lady of Deliverance church
in Baghdad on Sunday, which left at least 52 people dead and 67 wounded.

The non-Muslim lawmakers express their deep sympathy with the families of the
victims and called on all political and social communities, particularly the
Foreign Ministry to take the necessary measures so that the supporters of
Al-Qa'idah group would end their support, the statement read.

The attack, which an Al-Qa'idah-linked organization claimed responsibility for,
was the deadliest against Iraq's Christian minority since the US-led occupation
began in 2003. It chilled the hearts of the remaining members of the Iraqi
Christian community, who have so far resisted the urge to flee from the war-torn
country.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 0518gmt 06 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

Iranian grand ayatollahs condemn terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 286 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 6 November: Grand Ayatollahs Lotfollah Safi Golpayegani and Jafar
Sobhani, on Thursday [4 November], strongly condemned the recent terror attacks
in Iraq.

The two clerics also condemned the silence of international community and the
human rights organizations in this regard.

More than a dozen coordinated car bombings ripped through the Iraqi capital late
Tuesday [2 November] killing at least 64 people and wounding around 360.

According to security officials in Baghdad the car bombs detonated in various
parts of the city, largely in Shi'a neighbourhoods but also in several mixed and
predominantly Sunni areas.

Religious minority MPs condemn attack on Baghdad church

Moreover, the religious minorities' representatives in the parliament issued a
statement, condemning the hostage-taking incident at a Catholic church in
Baghdad.

The statement came in response to the attack on Our Lady of Deliverance church
in Baghdad on Sunday, which left at least 52 people dead and 67 wounded.

The non-Muslim lawmakers express their deep sympathy with the families of the
victims and called on all political and social communities, particularly the
Foreign Ministry to take the necessary measures so that the supporters of
Al-Qa'idah group would end their support, the statement read.

The attack, which an Al-Qa'idah-linked organization claimed responsibility for,
was the deadliest against Iraq's Christian minority since the US-led occupation
began in 2003. It chilled the hearts of the remaining members of the Iraqi
Christian community, who have so far resisted the urge to flee from the war-torn
country.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1718gmt 06 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

Obama pays tribute to victims of Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 617 words

ABSTRACT

US president visits scene of 2008 attacks as he starts Asian tour intended to
revitalise his administration in wake of disastrous midterm elections

FULL TEXT

Barack Obama has paid tribute to the victims of India's Mumbai terrorist attacks
at the start of his 10-day Asia tour, which he hopes will revitalise his
presidency following the disastrous showing for the Democrats in the US midterm
elections.

Obama said India and the US were united against terrorism as he visited the
scene of the Islamist attacks in November 2008. He said the Taj Mahal Palace
hotel, a target of the 60-hour siege that killed 166 people across the city, was
a symbol of India's "strength and resilience".

The president said he intended to send a signal by making Mumbai the first stop
on his tour, which will take in India, Indonesia, South Korea and Japan, and by
staying at the Taj. All 570 rooms have been booked, with an entire floor set
aside for the president. The seafront outside the hotel has been a high security
zone for several days.

"We'll never forget," said Obama. "The United States and India stand united."

The president spoke after meeting privately with relatives of those killed in
the attack. He also signed a memorial book, writing: "The United States stands
in solidarity with all of Mumbai and all of India in working to eradicate the
scourge of terrorism."

The Obamas later visited a museum in a former home of Mahatma Gandhi, seen as
the father of Indian independence and revered as a global spiritual leader. The
president wrote in the guest book that Gandhi "is a hero not just to India, but
to the world".

Obama will later announce trade deals with India worth $10bn (£6.18bn), which
are expected to help pay for 54,000 US jobs. He will also unveil new export
rules to make it easier for the US to trade with India. The emphasis on job
creation is a reminder that Obama cannot leave his domestic troubles behind him
during the visit. The issue was the number one concern of voters in Tuesday's
disastrous midterm elections.

The president left Washington shortly after the government reported that the
economy added 151,000 jobs in October. It was not sufficient to lower the 9.6%
jobless rate and the president said it was not good enough.

The White House is going to great lengths to bring attention to the economic
potential and shared democratic values that define its relationship with India
and its 1.2 billion people. "It is hard to overstate the importance of Asia to
our economic future," the president wrote in a piece for the New York Times
published today.

Speaking aboard Air Force One, national security adviser Tom Donilon said Obama
intends the trip to be "a full embrace of India's rise", adding: "There's no
more powerful way to do that than a presidential trip."

Indian officials said Obama's visit underscored the close ties that have
developed between the two nations over the past 10 years after decades of wary
relations.

"I don't think there's an area of human endeavour in which we do not actually
cooperate," said Shivshankar Menon, India's national security adviser. "We work
together in innovation. We work together in technology. We create jobs in each
other's economy. When you look at the political and military side as well, we
work together on national security, on counterterrorism, defence."

But Indian commentators quickly seized on the fact that in his Mumbai speech the
president did not mention Pakistan - the home of the 10 terrorists behind the
attacks. India has raised concerns about the billions of dollars in military aid
that the US is funnelling to its neighbour and arch-rival, which is a linchpin
for Washington and its allies in the war in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

i Thought It Was A Terrorist Attack'

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words


Richard Sutton

APASSENGER last night described the moment a concrete mixer lorry smashed on to
the roof of a train after it had fallen from a bridge.

Footballer Timi Raji heard desperate cries from a trapped passenger after the
lorry landed on the roof of a South West Trains Guildford to London Waterloo
service near Oxshott in Surrey yesterday.

Five people, one believed to be the lorry driver, were taken to hospital, two
with serious injuries and three with minor injuries.

Mr Raji, 18, a semi-professional footballer with Woking Football Club, was in
the carriage next to the one that was crushed and rushed to the adjoining door
when the train ground to a halt following a loud bang.

He said: "The door was blocked but we could see someone was at the bottom of the
carriage, trying to get out.

"The train had been crushed and the guy was trying to escape.

"He was on his stomach and we could only see his feet sticking out.

"My friends and I were trying to calm him down and talking to him. He was saying
help, help'."

The man was rescued by emergency services and was believed to be suffering back
injuries, he added.

Mr Raji was travelling home from Guildford in Surrey to London Waterloo with six
team-mates when the train was hit. He said: "All of a sudden we heard a bang and
the lights were twitching, going on and off.

"No one knew what had happened. The train kept stopping.

"I thought it was a terrorist attack. My friends were saying  what's that?' A
lot of people were panicking."

South West Trains said there were around 40 passengers on the train at the time
of the collision.

A spokeswoman for South East Coast Ambulance Service said five people had been
taken to hospitals in the area. Two were being treated for serious injuries and
had been taken to St George's Hospital in Tooting, London.

Two other people were taken to Epsom General Hospital in Surrey and another
passenger was taken  to the Royal Surrey County Hospital in Guildford.

A total of 39 passengers were assessed at the scene but did not need further
treatment.

Superintendent Philip Trendall of the British Transport Police said: "There was
substantial damage to the train, which remained upright during the accident."

The lorry crashed through a brick wall on a bridge above the busy commuter line,
landing on the roof of the third carriage from the back of the eight-carriage
train near Oxshott station. One passenger posted a series of pictures on Twitter
showing how the roof of the train completely caved in.

He claimed the seriously-injured passenger had spinal injuries.

Network Rail said the incident happened at around 3.30pm.

A spokesman said the incident had taken place on a branch line and would
therefore not result in major disruption to the network. Footage broadcast from
a helicopter hovering over the incident showed a Premix lorry on the tracks
beneath a road bridge. The train could be seen about 50 metres further up the
track away from the lorry.

It appeared that the lorry struck the carriage, caving in part of the roof,
before crashing   to the side of the track.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                November 7, 2010

Obama visits Mumbai terror attack site as he launches bid to woo Indian
business: White House hopes for boost from trade, but is less keen on helping
India's strategic ambitions

BYLINE: Jason Burke Delhi

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 652 words


President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, arrived yesterday in the Indian
commercial capital of Mumbai on the first leg of a 10-day four-nation tour of
Asia to drum up business for American companies and to consolidate relations
with key allies in the region.

The couple will also hope to find some relief from the domestic political
fallout of the Democratic party's resounding defeat in midterm elections last
week.

The president made his first statement of the trip, the longest he has taken in
office, at Mumbai's Taj Mahal Hotel, one of the targets attacked by Islamic
militants in the city just under two years ago.

"We will never forget," Obama said at a memorial to victims of the attack.

The Obamas were due to stay overnight in the hotel before flying to Delhi today.
An entire floor has been reserved for their use and all 570 rooms booked for
their entourage and security.

Around 10,000 security personnel have been deployed. The president, who is
travelling with hundreds of investors and trade officials, addressed an audience
of top Indian businessmen in Mumbai last night. The White House, aware of the
role the fragile American economy played in last week's poor poll results, has
been keen to underline the economic gains the trip is expected to bring for
America.

American firms are set to finalise deals worth around $10bn (£ 6bn) with India
that will support 54,000 jobs back home, senior White House aide Michael Froman
told reporters.

Some 20 deals are in the pipeline, including an engine contract for General
Electric and a $2.7bn commission for passenger aircraft from Boeing for one of
India's fast-expanding private airlines. However, the $4.5bn sale by Boeing of
C-17 military transport planes is still being negotiated.

The last visit by an American premier, in 2006, saw George W Bush
controversially announce America's formal blessing for India's civil nuclear
power programme. Few expect the same kind of breakthrough this time. But no one
predicts an upset either.

"At the end it will look good. The Indians understand they need to be seen to be
helping the US with some decent economic deals. Obama understands he needs to
reassure India that the momentum in relations generated by Bush is still there,"
said C Raja Mohan, an Indian academic and foreign policy analyst.

The economic emphasis has disappointed some in Delhi. Indian diplomats are
looking for signs of a new US strategic vision for South Asia that would give
them a central role to counterbalance China.

American officials have restricted themselves to noting the "emergence" of India
and its middle class and observing that "regional dynamics will change fast"
over coming years.

US diplomats last week restated their desire to see measures ranging from
reforms of ownership regulations to changes in intellectual property law, which
would ease the access to Indian markets for American firms.

Indian hopes for the waiving of restrictions on the transfer of American
technology to government bodies working on space research or nuclear technology
seem likely to be fulfilled.

The White House is also set to support Indian membership of four key global
nuclear nonproliferation regimes. "We will end up treating India similar to
other close allies and partners other than as a country of concern," Froman
said.

However there is unlikely to be an explicit statement backing India's bid for
permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council.

In Delhi, in addition to a visit to a Mughal-era Islamic tomb, an address to
parliament and a state dinner, Obama will meet Manmohan Singh, the 78-year- old
Indian prime minister, and Sonia Gandhi, the head of the Congress Party.

ON OTHER PAGES

Golf, tan and lobbyists. . .

World news, page 21

Andrew Rawnsley: Yes, Obama can win another term in office

Comment, page 41

Captions:

The Obamas outside Mumbai's Taj Mahal Hotel, where all 570 rooms were booked for
their overnight stay. AP


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 8, 2010 Monday

Dissident terror group 'behind Belfast grenade attack on policemen'

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 389 words

ABSTRACT

Oghlaigh na hEireann carried out attack which left two officers injured,
republican sources claim

FULL TEXT

Republican dissident terror group Oghlaigh na hEireann carried out a blast bomb
attack on two police officers in west Belfast, republican sources have told the
Guardian.

Police today confirmed that the device used in the attack on Friday night was a
military style hand grenade.

Republican sources said ONH had recruited a number of seasoned former
Provisional IRA members in the city.

They said an entire ex-PIRA unit from the St James' area of west Belfast had
defected to the ONH. This group includes veteran PIRA bomb-makers and assassins
who were highly active before the Provisionals' 1994 ceasefire.

"ONH is the rising force in the west not the Real IRA, which is stronger in
Derry. They have got some top Provo operators over to their side, especially
around St James," one republican veteran told the Observer yesterday.

"These are dangerous people who have loads of experience and will keep this
campaign going," he added.

ONH was formed as a result of a split within the Real IRA after the latter
organisation's founder, Michael McKevitt, tried to call a ceasefire following
the 1998 Omagh bomb atrocity.

Friday night's attack in the Shaw's Road area of west Belfast was part of a
carefully planned trap. ONH members robbed a bookmakers in the area and after
police were called to deal with the heist they waited for a Police Service of
Northern Ireland patrol. When the police arrived a man on the back of passing
motorbike threw an explosive device at the policemen.

Two officers were hurt, one suffering major injuries to his arms and legs, a
police spokesman said. However, their wounds are not thought to be life
threatening, he added. A third PSNI officer had to be treated for shock.

Brian Rea, the acting chairman of Northern Ireland's policing board, condemned
those responsible. "Actions like this will not deter the police, and others who
work with police, from continuing to do their best to provide good policing and
a safer environment for the people of west Belfast," he said.

Sinn Féin assembly member for the area, Paul Maskey, said: "There are a lot of
shops and eating places, it's a residential area and there's a GAA club. We're
very lucky that there were not more injuries than there are," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 8, 2010 Monday

Ban strongly condemns terror attacks on worshippers in Pakistan

LENGTH: 84 words


November 5, 2010

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today strongly condemned today's terrorist attacks
on two mosques in north-western Pakistan, which reportedly left more than 70
people dead, including a number of children."The Secretary-General is dismayed
by the indiscriminate killing of civilians in a place of worship, which no cause
can justify," Mr. Ban's spokesperson said in a statement.

Mr. Ban extended his condolences to the families of the victims and to the
Government and people of Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Man who lost both legs in July 7 Tube attack saw terrorist detonate bomb

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood and Katie Hodge

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 551 words


The most seriously injured  survivor of the July 7 bombings has relived how he
watched the terror plot s ringleader detonate his suicide bomb.

Daniel Biddle, 31, lost both legs, his left eye, his spleen and 87 pints of
blood as medics fought to save his life after Mohammed Sidique Khan killed
himself and six others.

The former construction project manager, who was  standing a few feet from Khan,
described a  big white flash  before he was blown out of the carriage near
Edgware Road.

Mr Biddle described the attack as the inquests into the 52 killed entered their
fifth week at the Royal Courts of Justice.

Moving statements from relatives of the six victims   Michael Brewster, Jonathan
Downey, David Foulkes, Colin Morley, Jennifer Nicholson and Laura Webb   were
also read out.

Mr Biddle spent several weeks in a coma and endured months of treatment but went
on to marry his fiancee and hopes to represent Britain at the 2012 Paralympics.

Speaking from the witness box, he said Khan sat close to him before looking down
and detonating the bomb with a jerk of his hand, in which he may have been
holding a white cord.

Mr Biddle said:  The train entered the Tube tunnel: I looked around. As I looked
around, he looked up and I saw a quick movement. Then there was a big white
flash.

The kind of noise you get when you tune a radio in. It  felt like the carriage I
was in expanded at a fast rate and then contracted quickly. And with that it
blew me off my feet and through the carriage doors into the tunnel.

When he woke up on the tracks, pinned down by a piece of carriage door or panel,
he said his first thought was that he had  fallen out of the train .

It was when I tried to move and I couldn t, and as the dust and smoke settled
and the noises started, that I realised something bad had happened,  he said.

Mr Biddle added:  I was terrified, seeing what I had seen, and thought I was
going to die. So I was screaming just as loud as I could to get help.

Fellow passenger and trained first aider Adrian Heili came to his side, along
with Lee Hunt, an off-duty Tube driver.

Paramedic Graeme Baker also arrived and accompanied him  to hospital.

Mr Heili, who served with the Austrian Army in Kosovo, told the inquests that
choosing who to help had been the hardest decision of his life.

However, he said Mr Biddle, whose screams could be heard coming from outside the
carriage, was his  major concern  and he clambered through pools of blood to
reach him.

He used his belt and shirt to make tourniquets in a bid to stem the flow of
blood, but  was handed a first aid kit that contained little more than gauze and
bandages.

Mr Biddle spent several weeks in a coma and doctors gave him dozens of pints of
blood in transfusions.

His heart was massaged by hand as medical staff fought to save his life.

A 20p piece remains lodged in his thigh bone, and other shrapnel, including his
door keys and a large pocketful of change, was removed by surgeons.

The inquest heard Mr Biddle only caught the Tube train because of a series of
fateful decisions after waking up late with a migraine and catching the rush
hour.

Coroner Lady Justice Hallett said:  Given the large number of factors that
combined to put you on that train, I pray they do not haunt you. You have
suffered so much and your survival is inspirational.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESPONSE: Emergency workers at Edgware Road after the explosion.
SURVIVOR: Daniel Biddle lost both legs when the bomb was detonated near him on
the Edgware Road Tube.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Waterboarding saved London from terror attacks, Bush claims

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell in Washington and Guy Adams in Los Angeles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words


GEORGE BUSH returned to the public eye with a bang last night, using his newly
published memoirs to claim that information the US gained by "waterboarding"
terror suspects helped to foil at least two attacks on London.

The practice, which simulates drowning and is widely considered to be an act of
torture, helped prevent planned bombings of both Heathrow airport and Canary
Wharf, he said.

"Three people were waterboarded and I believe that decision saved lives," he
wrote. "Their interrogations helped break up plots to attack American diplomatic
facilities abroad, Heathrow airport and Canary Wharf, and multiple targets in
the United States."

MrBush provided no further details of the alleged intended attacks, and it was
not clear whether their supposed ringleaders were ever brought to justice.
Neither did he address the fact that waterboarding did nothing to prevent the
bombings in London on 7 July 2005.

Almost two years since he left the White House as one of the least-loved
presidents of modern times, the book he is promoting promises to be America's
publishing event of 2010. In an interview to publicise the memoir, Decision
Points, MrBush reasserted his belief that waterboarding did not amount to
torture. Asked if it was ever used on the captured al-Qa'ida leader Khalid
Sheikh Mohammed, he told The Times: "Damn right!"

Elsewhere in the 497-page book, the ex-president reveals that he once told the
Pentagon to draw up plans for attacks on Iran and Syria but eventually decided
against starting the third and fourth wars of his presidency.

He described Tony Blair as his greatest foreign ally, recalling how, when Mr
Blair faced a possible no-confidence vote in Parliament on the eve of the Iraq
war, he offered him the chance to opt out of sending British troops. He said Mr
Blair replied: "I'm in. If it costs the government, fine."

The interview, on NBC, also saw Mr Bush shed light on his childhood, revealing
that his career-long opposition to abortion was cemented when his mother,
Barbara, showed him a dead foetus in a jar, saying it was the result of her
having suffered a miscarriage.

"There's no question that affected me, [giving me] a philosophy that we should
respect life," he recalled of the incident, which happened when he was a
teenager. "I never expected to see the remains of the foetus, which she had
saved in a jar to bring to the hospital. There was a human life, a little
brother or sister."

Late last night, Mr Bush was due to appear in a Fox News interview expressing
his view that his brother, Jeb, should stand for the Republican presidential
nomination next year. This morning, he will kick off a nationwide tour by
signing copies of his book at a shopping mall near his home in Dallas, before
appearing on The Oprah Winfrey Show this afternoon.

The man who emerges in Decision Points is familiar: a leader who prides himself
on making judgements by gut instinct rather than after a lengthy perusal of the
facts. "Dubya" comes across as one of the boys, incurious and defiantly
anti-intellectual. "This is going to come as quite a shock to people??? that I
can write a book, much less read one," he told friends a few months ago, in one
of those garbled sentences known as Bushisms. In fact, he did not exactly write
it; that task fell to Christopher Michel, 28, a former speechwriter, known to Mr
Bush as "Junior Bird Man".

Decision Points is structured around a dozen key moments, starting when he gave
up alcohol at the age of 40, continuing through his decision to seek the
presidency, the 9/11 attacks and the war to topple Saddam Hussein, in which he
admits mistakes but insists the invasion of Iraq was still the right thing to
have done. Generally speaking, however, it can be summed up in two words: no
regrets.

Iraq looms large, still a broken society

Leading article, Viewspaper, page 2

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                      November 9, 2010 Tuesday 1:58 PM BST

TERROR WATCHDOG TO PROBE 'POPE ATTACK PLOT' ARRESTS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 395 words


The Government's terrorism watchdog is to investigate the arrests of six men in
London questioned by police over an alleged plot to attack the Pope, the Home
Secretary has confirmed.

Theresa May announced the review as she named David Anderson QC, a specialist in
European Union and Public Law and human rights, as the new independent reviewer
of terrorism legislation.

He will take up the role early in the new year after the incumbent, Lord Carlile
of Berriew QC, conducts a ``brief review'' of the terror arrests during Pope
Benedict XVI's visit in September.

He will examine whether the Metropolitan Police's counter-terrorism officers
were justified in detaining the men in armed raids. They were all later released
without charge.

Police searched eight homes in north and east London and two business premises
in central London, including a street cleaning depot, as part of the
investigation. Searches of the premises did not disclose any weapons or
suspicious materials, Scotland Yard said.

Reports at the time suggested the men, aged 26, 27, 29, 36, 40 and 50, had
simply been overheard sharing a joke in their canteen. One of the men, 29, was
arrested at a home in north London shortly before 2pm on Friday September 17.

The five other men, believed to be street cleaners, were arrested at gunpoint as
armed officers swooped on their base as they prepared to start their shift
shortly before 6am on the same day. They worked for Veolia Environmental
Services, a contractor which employs 650 on-street staff to keep the streets of
Westminster clean.

In a written ministerial statement, Mrs May said Lord Carlile will ``conduct a
brief review of the arrests (and subsequent release) of six individuals under
the Terrorism Act 2000 during the recent State visit to the United Kingdom by
the Pope''. Mrs May said Lord Carlile had performed his role ``with
distinction''.

Shami Chakrabarti, director of human rights group Liberty, said Mr Anderson was
``a first-rate lawyer'' who was widely respected in both the security and legal
communities.

``His forensic skill may help build the kind of public confidence that this
important non-political role has lacked for some years,'' she said.
``Exceptional anti-terror laws should trouble every democrat in this country.
The statutory reviewer should give anxious scrutiny to their operation, not
lobby for their extension.'' end

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

GUNMAN SHOOTS AT FLAT;
Cops probe attack terror

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 441 words


POLICE were yesterday hunting a hooded gunman who fired four shots at the
windows of a Paisley flat as children played in the street.

The masked thug, who was armed with a handgun, got out of a red or
burgundy-coloured car after it drew up outside a home in Dee Drive, Foxbar.

He then repeatedly fired shots at the front windows of a ground-floor flat where
26-year-old Martin Reilly used to live.

One bullet smashed through a double-glazed window and became lodged in a living
room wall.

A second shot damaged another window and a third bullet struck the window frame.
It is thought the fourth bullet rebounded off the brickwork of the building.

The getaway car, which was being driven by a second man, was last seen speeding
off in the direction of Spey Avenue.

Shell casings were found at the scene.

Mr Reilly was not in the flat when the Turn to Page Three

From Page One shots rang out but his former girlfriend turned up to find a
number of cops, including some from an armed response unit, at the scene.

Hours later, detectives interviewed Mr Reilly at another address in the Paisley
area.

The frightening drama took place in broad daylight at around 3.45pm on Sunday.

A terrified woman alerted the police after she heard four gunshots.

Within minutes, officers from Mill Street police HQ in Paisley were at the scene
and, a short time later, armed officers arrived as a major inquiry was launched.

Forensic and ballistic officers were also sent there to search for clues.

One Dee Drive resident told the Paisley Daily Express: "Police seemed to be all
over this part of the street. They were speaking to people who live around here
and it was obvious that something serious had happened.

"What really shocks me is that there were children playing nearby in the street.
when these shots were fired.

"It sends a shiver down my spine to think that a stray bullet could have hit one
of them."

Yesterday, police said that no-one was injured during the shooting incident.

Officers were studying CCTV footage and carrying out door-to-door inquiries.

The gunman was wearing a dark hooded top with the hood up, a black jumper and
possibly a black balaclava with a white pattern on the front .

Detective Sergeant Andrew Piper told the Express: "At this time, we are trying
to establish a motive for this crime.

"I appeal to anyone who was in the area on Sunday afternoon and saw or heard
anything to come forward.

"I believe someone in the local community may have vital information."

Anyone who can help is asked to ring Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Terror as gunman shoots at flat

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SHOTS: The armed man targeted a home in Dee Drive DAMAGED: Bullet
holes in the window

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday

Not a single terrorist attack carried out in Chechnya this year - minister

LENGTH: 335 words


Excerpt from report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Groznyy, 10 November: Since the beginning of the year, not a single terrorist
attack has been carried out in Chechnya, Chechen Interior Minister Ruslan
Alkhanov said today, speaking at an official ceremony to mark the Day of Police.

Police have prevented nine terrorist attacks at the state of preparation, he
said.

Alkhanov said that "dozens of active members of bandit formations have been
killed and the level of crime has been reduced significantly in the republic".

This year, 39 police officers have been killed the line of duty; three have
become Heroes of Russia, two of them posthumously. Another 25 policemen, 24 of
them posthumously, have been awarded the Order of Courage for heroism in the
fight against illegal armed groups by the president's decree.

At the official ceremony, head of the republic Ramzan Kadyrov, who wore a
general's uniform to mark the occasion, handed over the awards to the families
and friends of the slain policemen.

He greeted his colleagues, saying that he had put on a police general's uniform
deliberately to "emphasize that I am with you; I am a policeman, too".

By his decree, Kadyrov also awarded the commander of the Joint Group of Forces
in the North Caucasus region, Yevgeniy Zubarev, with the highest award of the
republic, Order of Kadyrov, "for his significant contribution in defending the
interests of the motherland and the rule of law in the republic".

Zubarev said in his speech that the Interior Ministry in Chechnya is "the most
combat-ready part of the group".

The latest attack by terrorists in Chechnya happened on 19 October, when three
suicide bombers entered the parliament's grounds, shot dead two guards and the
caretaker, and then blew themselves up. Seventeen people were wounded, including
six policemen and 11 civilians. However, the investigation does not regard the
incident as a terrorist attack. [passage omitted]

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1333 gmt 10 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

Freed Early: Thug In Terror Attacks

BYLINE: Coreena Ford

SECTION: A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 431 words


JUDGES have cut a prison term for a thug  who carried out a humiliating attack
on his partner before knifing a man in a second assault.

Hard-drinking Preston Cockburn, 38, subjected victim Jayne Witt to such violence
she needed a metal plate in her jaw.

Bullying Cockburn, of Station Road, Ashington, spat in her face, stripped her,
held her face under a cold tap, pulled her hair out, put her head down the
toilet and then punched her so hard it fractured her jaw in two places.

And, in a second assault weeks later, he left a man he invited to his home for a
drink nursing knife wounds.

He was jailed for five-and-a-half years in July, with three years of extended
licence conditions, after admitting unlawful wounding and inflicting grievous
bodily harm at Newcastle Crown Court.

But after his lawyers argued it was wrong for the crown court judge to have
"punished him so severely", three judges in London slashed his jail term to four
years and his extended licence conditions to one year.

It was on November 16  last year Cockburn went up to Miss Witt at their
Ashington home and launched the cruel onslaught.

Despite the fact Miss Witt was bleeding and obviously seriously injured,
Cockburn ordered her to go to bed. The next morning her face was severely
swollen and he called for an ambulance   after which he went fishing.

Two metal plates were inserted into her jaw and she also needed stitches in her
jaw and some of her teeth were chipped, yet she covered for Cockburn, telling
police she had been assaulted by two women.

A month later, however, he attacked Richard Pratt, who he had met while out
drinking, striking him several times with a knife at the home he shared with
Miss Witt.

After seeing his senseless and callous attack on Richard Pratt, Miss Witt took
the brave step of going to the police.

At the time of the assaults, Cockburn already had a long list of convictions to
his name, including for carrying weapons and assaults, and was said to be a
"significant" risk of "serious" harm to the public.

When Cockburn was sentenced at Newcastle in July, Miss Witt said: "He has ruined
my life.

"I don't think I will ever get over this and I will be affected by it for some
time."

However, his lawyers challenged the prison sentence at the London court.

And the judges   Judge Anthony Morris QC, sitting today with Lord Justice Elias
and Mrs Justice Dobbs   agreed.

Judge Morris said: "We consider that the total sentence in this case ought to
have been an extended sentence of five years' imprisonment, with a custodial
term of four years and extended licence period of 12 months."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: `

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

Iraqi Christians move closer to mass exodus after fresh wave of attacks leaves
four dead: Families hit by church attack are targeted again Terrorists use
mourning signs to find victims

BYLINE: Martin Chulov Baghdad Additional reporting: Enas Ibrahim

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 800 words


The martyr in their midst was known all around the area. But in case anyone had
missed it, a mourning sign had been posted outside Saad Adwar's house in the
Baghdad suburb of Kampsar, revealing exactly where he lived.

It said simply that Adwar had been killed "by the hand of a spiteful and hateful
enemy while he prayed to his holy God in Our Lady of Salvation church" 10 days
ago. Yesterday morning, the terrorists who had killed 44 of Baghdad's Christians
at their place of worship, came hunting them once more - this time in their
homes.

They struck 10 times just after 7am in six different places in Baghdad, almost
all of them Christian houses.

Mortars damaged two homes in the south. Improvised bombs damaged four in the
north of the city and four in the east. A total of four people were killed and
25 injured. Even worse was the effect on the city's already traumatised
Christian minority, which now seems more fearful than ever - and potentially
poised for another mass exodus.

"We are shocked these days about our situation," said Raad Yacoub Khuanum as he
repaired his kitchen, damaged by a bomb outside his house in the central suburb
of al-Sana'a. "Now I am terrified." The family car was a burned-out hulk,
destroyed by a bomb that had been placed by men who briefly stepped from a
passing car just after dawn. A distinctive Jerusalem cross had hung from the
rear vision mirror. No other car in the neighbourhood was damaged.

"The church attack had a psychological effect on us," he said. "Now we know
al-Qaida will kill us all."

Outside Adwar's house, a crowd had gathered to survey the ruins and check on the
welfare of his surviving family. His mother, Elin Najeb had been taken to
hospital. She had climbed on to the roof after two roadside bombs destroyed two
cars parked alongside the mourning sign for her son. A third bomb had been
placed in a tree nearby. Around the corner a fourth device killed a Muslim
passer-by.

Adwar's brother-in-law, Karam Torma, said the family was now desperate to leave
Iraq. "If we stay here we will lose our lives," he said. "Give me the number of
the French embassy."

Survivors of yesterday's attacks were urgently contacting foreign embassies,
particularly the French mission, which had helped almost 50 people wounded in
the church massacre to receive medical treatment in France. "We have heard there
were only 150 places," said Torma. "But we are in peril too."

The renewed uncertainty for Christians is a critical blow to Iraq's feuding
politicians, who still cannot form a government eight months after an election
and are now struggling to maintain a grip on a steadily deteriorating security
situation.

At the same time, they are fighting a losing battle to convince the Christian
community, which remains without militias after eight years of war, that they
will safeguard them in a land that many among them now increasingly see as
hostile.

The Islamic State of Iraq, a front group for al-Qaida, had heralded attacks on
Christians in a web statement posted after the church massacre. It gave the
Coptic Church in Egypt 48 hours to "free" the wives of two priests whom it
claimed had converted to Islam and were being held against their will. Failure
to do so, it pledged, would lead to "swords above the necks of Christians".

After the warning, the Iraqi Orthodox archbishop, Athanasios Dawood, called for
Christians to emigrate.

"I say clearly and now - the Christian people should leave their beloved land of
our ancestors and escape the premeditated ethnic cleansing," he said in a
statement to CNN delivered from London. "This is better than having them killed
one by one."

Christian leaders in Iraq have tried to step into the breach. But they are
powerless to stop the bloodshed and reluctant to give advice.

"I can't call on the Christians to leave their country," said the head of the
Christian endowment fund, Abdullah al-Noufali. "And I can't demand that they
stay. If I call for them to leave, I should be responsible for their futures and
if I call for them to stay, it's the same thing. It is a very difficult
position."

A commemoration mass yesterday inside the Our Lady of Salvation church instead
turned into a town hall summit on what the Christian community should do next.

Catholic priest Saad Hanna said deep-rooted societal problems in Iraq
contributed much to the community's sense of isolation. "The societal system and
the religious system here has much to answer for," he said. "There is religious
discrimination and there are big problems inside the security forces and
institutions. It is obvious what our fate will be if we stay."

Additional reporting: Enas Ibrahim

Captions:

People gather at the scene of one of several bomb attacks in Baghdad yesterday,
which put Christians in fear of their lives Photograph: Khalid Mohammed/AP

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

Security Council strongly condemns terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 262 words


November 10, 2010

The Security Council has strongly condemned the recent series of terrorist
attacks in Iraq, including today's bomb blasts in the capital, Baghdad, which
have claimed the lives of scores of people and wounded hundreds of others.The
Council particularly deplored the deliberate targeting of locations where
civilians congregate, including Christian and Muslim places of worship, and
voiced their deep condolences to the families of the victims.



In a statement read out to the press by Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant of the
United Kingdom, which holds the 15-member body's rotating presidency, the
Council condemned incitement to violence, particularly that which is motivated
by religious hatred.

It expressed confidence that the Iraqi people will remain steadfast in their
continued rejection of efforts by extremists to spark sectarian tension.

In addition, the Council condemned the 19 October attack against the convoy of
the Secretary-General's Special Representative and other United Nations staff in
Iraq. All UN staff escaped without injury, but a member of the Iraqi Security
Forces was killed and several others injured.

Underlining the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors
of the 'reprehensible acts of terrorism' to justice, members of the Council
urged all States to cooperate actively with the Iraqi authorities.

They stressed that 'no terrorist act can reverse a path towards peace, democracy
and reconstruction in Iraq, which is supported by the people and the Government
of Iraq and the international community.'

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

MAN HELD OVER MP ATTACK BLOG;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


A BLOGGER was arrested yesterday on suspicion of encouraging attacks on MPs who
voted for the Iraq war.

Cops are quizzing the man, 23, of Wolverhampton, over a website seen by
Roshonara Choudhry - jailed for her bid to kill MP Stephen Timms.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

MAN HELD OVER MP ATTACK BLOG;
TERROR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


A BLOGGER was arrested yesterday on suspicion of encouraging attacks on MPs who
voted for the Iraq war.

Cops are quizzing the man, 23, of Wolverhampton, over a website seen by
Roshonara Choudhry - jailed for her bid to kill MP Stephen Timms.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            November 12, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

GUN ATTACK TERROR;
Man injured as masked yob fires into living room: Town rocked by second shooting
in just four days

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words


A MAN was recovering yesterday after he was injured when a hooded gun thug fired
a bullet through his living room window.

There was a large police presence in the Ferguslie Park area of Paisley as an
investigation into the frightening incident - the second shooting to take place
in the town in the space of just four days - got under way.

Victim Archie Morrison was in the Turn to Page Three

From Page One living room of his home in Westpark Drive when a bullet smashed
through a double-glazed window.

A second bullet struck the window frame of the terraced house, which is near to
St Ninan's Church.

Mr Morrison, who is in his 40s, suffered an injury to his leg which is believed
to have been caused by flying glass from the living room window.

Two shell casings were found in the street outside and, yesterday, police
forensic experts were at the scene to search for other clues. A police
photographer was also there.

Officers are not ruling out a link with a shooting in Dee Drive, Foxbar, on
Sunday, when four shots were fired at the windows of a ground-floor flat.

The latest drama happened at around 7pm on Wednesday and detectives hunting the
gunman have described the incident as a "targeted attack."

When police arrived at the scene, they sealed off part of Westpark Drive .

It is believed the gunman was driven there in a black car but it is unclear if
he got out of the vehicle or stayed inside as he fired the two shots.

Moments later, the car sped off in the direction of Blackstoun Road and
disappeared.

Last night, families living near the scene of the shooting said they are stunned
by what happened.

One young mum told the Paisley Daily Express: "This is usually a quiet part of
Ferguslie Park and it's scary to hear that a gunman has been on the loose.

"My kids often play in the street but, thankfully, they weren't out on Wednesday
night because it was too cold.

"I've been told there was a man in the living room at the time of the shooting.
He could easily have been killed."

Detective Inspector Maxine Martin, who is based at Paisley Police Office, has
appealed for witnesses to the shooting in Westpark Drive .

She said: "Thankfully, no-one was seriously injured during this incident. It is
still very early days in terms of establishing a potential motive but, at this
time, we do not believe this was a random attack.

"We shall be carrying out a thorough investigation into the circumstances and
would appeal to anyone who was in the area and who may have information which
might assist us with our inquiries to get in touch with us.

"We will be stepping up additional high-visibility patrols in the area until we
have apprehended the individual or individuals concerned."

Anyone with information should contact Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900.
Alternatively, call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where anonymity can be
maintained.

The target in Sunday'shooting was believed to be 26-year-old Martin Reilly, who
had moved out of the Dee Drive flat some weeks ago.

Four shots rang out - three of which hit the windows of a flat. The other
bounced off the brickwork of the building.

No-one was hurt in that incident and, yesterday, the masked gunman - who was
driven to and from the scene by a man in a red or burgundy-coloured car - was
still at large.

Police are checking CCTV footage and comparing similarities in both incidents.

Police probe second gun attack in four days

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  INVESTIGATION: Part of Westpark Drive was sealed off yesterday as
police hunted a gunman DAMAGED: A bullet was fired through the window of this
terraced home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan court adjourns hearing of various terror attack cases - report

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report headlined "ATC adjourns hearing of terrorism cases" published by
Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 13 November

Rawalpindi: An anti-terrorism court (ATC) on Friday [12 November] adjourned
hearing of various cases regarding terrorist attacks against a NATO convey, POF
Wah and check post of the Punjab Constabulary.

On Friday, Sangar Khan, accused of terrorist attack on the containers of NATO
near Tarnol, was brought to the court. However due to engagement of his lawyer,
ATC-II Judge Raja Ikhlaq Hussain put off the proceedings until 15 November. In
the proceedings of the second case regarding the suicide attack on the main gate
of POF Wah Cantt, the court postponed the hearing until 23 November. In the
third case regarding the attack on Punjab Constabulary's picket at Islamabad,
the court postponed the hearing until 23 November.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 13 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

Pakistan TV show discusses Karachi terror attack, tax reforms

LENGTH: 879 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 12 November relays live
regularly scheduled "Today With Kamran Khan" programme. Noted Pakistani
journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day
developments with government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and
prominent analysts in Geo TV's flagship programme. Words within double slant
lines are in English

Programme: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Khan begins the programme by saying that the TTP [Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan] has
claimed the responsibility for the attack on the CID [Criminal Investigation
Department] building, Karachi; although police hold the Lashkar-i-Jhangvi [LJ]
responsible. Khan says: "The LJ, Al-Qa'idah, and the TTP are working together
along with other banned extremist organizations of Pakistan." Khan says that the
TTP has threatened to attack President Asif Ali Zardari. Khan says that 17
persons lost their lives to 11 November attack in Karachi. Khan says that
according to police, 500-kg of explosive material was used in the attack.

Khan plays a video report on 11 November attack. The report says that according
to the FIA [Federal Investigation Agency] personnel, the attack on CID building
was almost of the same intensity as Marriot, Islamabad. The CID, Sindh was
created to control sectarian violence and terrorism in 2002. The report says:
"This attack is speculated to have carried out by the LJ whose intention was to
free six of its members from CID police's custody." The six terrorists from the
LJ were arrested by the anti-terrorist wing of CID.

Khan establishes video link with Geo News correspondent Afzal Nadeem Dogar and
asks him to update about the findings of initial investigation. Dogar says that,
although investigation is underway, the police are not in a position to name any
organization clearly. Dogar says that police cannot collect evidence through
CCTV [close circuit television] cameras since the building got collapsed by the
explosion, and the entire camera system as well. Dogar says that according to
eye witnesses, "the number of terrorists was 10"

Segment II

Khan says that the government has decided to impose the RGST [Reformed General
Sales Tax] on disgruntled poor Pakistanis. Khan says that these taxes are to be
paid by those who are already paying taxes and tax defaulters are not being
heaved into the tax net. Khan says that rich and powerful land lords are out of
the tax net. Khan says that the government presented the RGST bill in parliament
on 12 November. Khan says that all political parties are offering stiff
resistance to the government's plan to get the RGST endorsed by parliament. Khan
says: "Apparently, the government will have to surrender before the majority of
parliament." Khan quotes Nawaz Sharif, chief of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz
[PML-N], as saying that his party will never allow the RGST bill to be endorsed
by parliament. Khan says that the JI [Jamaat-i-Islami], JUI-F [Jamiat
Ulema-i-Islam-Fazlur Rehman], ANP [Awami National Party], PML-Q [Pakistan Muslim
League-Qaid-i -Azam], and the MQM [Muttahida Qaumi Movement] have also rejected
the idea of the RGST and FT [Flood Tax] on poor people. Khan quotes Prime
Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani as claiming that Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz
Sharif was in favour of the RGST and totally on board the decision.

Khan establishes telephone link with Shahbaz Sharif and asks him to clear his
position in this regard. Shahbaz Sharif says: "The original idea of the federal
government was to impose VAT [Value added tax], which his party has never been
in favour of." Sharif says that the idea of the RGST was created in lieu of VAT.
Sharif says that instead of imposing the RGST; the government should control
//mismanagement// and corruption, and improve governance. Shahbaz Sharif says
that the RGST is being imposed to fulfil the IMF's conditions. Shahbaz Sharif
says that in addition to the RGST, the government has increased the price of
oil. Sharif says that the government's extravagant lifestyle and corruption
leave no moral ground for the RGST. Shahbaz Sharif says: "The RGST is not
acceptable to the PML-N in the given circumstances."

Khan says that the government is not interested in taking measures for curbing
of corruption. Khan says: "The public sector corporations inflict a total loss
of 500bn rupees on the economy every year."

Segment III

Khan says that the NIC [National Insurance Corporation] has suffered a loss of
10bn because of its Managing Director Muhammad Ayyaz Niazi who used to be a
manager of a night club in Dubai before taking charge of the NIC. Khan says that
similarly, chairman of the NHA [National Highway Authority] was in prison on
charges of corruption.

Khan establishes a video link with Senator Haroon Akhtar and asks him to comment
on unmerited appointments. Akhtar says that the Supreme Court has taken notice
of all four major real estate deals that revolve around these two corrupt
persons. Akhtar says that the FIA investigation is underway and one out of four
cases has been completed. Akhtar says that Niazi and company made 65m dollars
unlawfully through four real estate deals. Khan concludes the programme.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 12 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

Pakistan analyst sees Al-Qa'idah role in Karachi terror attack

LENGTH: 800 words


Text of report by Cyril Almeida headlined "New strands of militancy descend on
Karachi" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 14 November

Interior Minister Rehman Malik's claim the Lashkar-i-Jhangvi (LJ) is responsible
for the fidayeen-cum-suicide attack on the CID [Central Investigation
Department] centre in Karachi has been met with scepticism by analysts and
officials.

"Malik's statement is neither here nor there because LJ, like TTP, has become a
generic name for urban terrorist groups," according to a senior security
analyst.

Since the death of Riaz Basra in a police encounter and the arrest of his
second-in-command, Akram Lahori, in the early 2000s, the LJ is known to have
split into several factions.

According to Amir Rana, director of the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies, a
think tank which tracks militancy, there are at least six factions of LJ: "Some
are directed against sectarian targets, others against the state and yet others
have an 'internationalist' focus."

"Some of these groups have come up with their own names, but many haven't and
they get put under the LJ label," Rana added.

Another analyst claimed: "There are at least three known factions (of LJ). Some
say perhaps five groups. The reasons for splits range from financial disputes
over money looted from banks to personality clash and ideological conflict.

"Basra, and to some extent Akram Lahori, raised LJ purely on anti-Shia lines.
Their only difference with SSP (the parent organisation of LJ) was they thought
Sipah-i-Sahaba had become soft on the anti-Shi'i issue after going into
mainstream politics."

The main suspect in Thursday's attack is one Qari Abid, believed to be the head
of the Lashkar-i-Jhangvi Al Alami. The 'Al Alami' nomenclature is usually
associated with Al Qaeda.

"The Marriott bombing (in Islamabad) was similar to what happened in Karachi,"
according to Amir Rana, "and so that has instantly raised the possibility of a
Qari Abid-Al Qaeda connection."

Added another official, "Qari Abid's faction is part of the bigger TTP
conglomerate, and he is believed to be hiding in South Waziristan, although some
officials believe he has been to Karachi a number of times.

"(Abid) or members of his group are the prime suspects as, despite having a
strong anti-Shia bias, they concentrate more on security-related targets."

But, as with all things in the world of militancy, little can be said with
certainty. Another suspect in the Karachi attack is Malik Tassaduq, member of
what was once known as the Harkatul Mujahideen Al Alami and a former associate
of Ramzi Yusuf.

According to an official, "The Harkat has either merged with the TTP or is using
its name to carry out attacks against the security establishment."

There is also a third major suspect: Attaur Rehman aka Qari Rehman aka Naeem
Bokhari. Arrested several years ago in connection with the killings of Shias,
Rehman was released on bail after the prosecution's case faltered.

"Though some argue he has found refuge in South Waziristan, others believe he is
in Karachi these days and that his men are behind some of the recent attacks on
Shias and even the shrine of Abdullah Shah Ghazi," a security analyst claimed.

Given these complexities, long-time analysts of militancy in Pakistan are
dismissive of Rehman Malik's suggestion a monolith 'Lashkar-i-Jhangvi' was the
most likely culprit in the latest Karachi attack.

"All these groups use different names for their propaganda campaigns. Depending
on the kind of action, or political need, they can identify themselves as TTP,
LJ, Punjabi Taliban, etc," an analyst claimed.

The one commonality is sanctuary in Fata: "Although there are serious
differences on how this battle against those perceived to be 'heretics' or US
agents or un-Islamic is be fought, the TTP leadership has provided all of them
refuge in the tribal areas," a senior Karachi-based editor claimed.

"It's a loose conglomerate of anti-US, anti-army, anti-Shia, and
anti-Barelvi/Sufi Muslims, as the main leadership of the TTP believes all these
elem ents service each other's needs."

For Karachi, which like the rest of the country will soon be preparing for
Muharram, most worrying is the crossover in the aims and intentions of the
various militant groups.

An official said: "Until recently the authorities were of the view that only the
anti-Shia group was active in Karachi, and was also targeting soft Sunni-Sufi
shrines or Barelvi leaders.

"But with the CID attack, the fear is that the other, rival, 'LJ' faction has
descended on Karachi. This other group not only wants to target vulnerable
police/paramilitary installations, but also to prove to their rivals that they
have roots in Karachi and are capable of playing havoc in the city."

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 14 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

Pakistan writer says continuing terror attacks anti-Islamic in nature

LENGTH: 1147 words


Text of article by A. R. Jerral headlined "Is Islam being maligned?" published
by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 14 November

Someone transmitted a pertinent question on cell phones: "Why do the Talebans
target mosques, places of worship, shrines and religious processions and not
cinemas, clubs and other places of pleasure?" Is there a deliberate move to
tarnish the image of Islam? Viewed in the perspective of contemporary events one
tends to become suspicious of the philosophy upheld and propagated by these
militants; they are acting in a manner that raises many doubts. They appear to
be following an anti-Islam agenda.

Islam, as a religious ideology, advocates strict respect and safety of life and
property. Even in the time of war it prohibits killing of unarmed civilians,
children, women and the old. These people, who target the civilian gatherings,
show total disregard of these principles of Islam, yet they claim to fight for
it. By killing innocent people, they hardly serve the cause of Islam. I recall a
documentary prepared by BBC, which traced the rise of Muslim militancy in North
African Muslin nations. One scene in it has remained embedded in my memory - a
man carrying the dead body of child killed in a bomb attack claimed by Ikwan
militants in Tunisia asks bluntly: "Is this Islam?"

The message is loud and clear; such bombings and killings create hatred for
those who cause such miseries. Islam is not an extremist ideology; it preaches
balance and justice. Even waging war is guided by strict rules of restraint. The
face of Islam projected by these so-called exponents of the faith is a gross
distortion. Irony is that some of our Islamic scholars neither show courage to
condemn them, nor make the effort to preach the true ideology of Islam. Islam
believes in a strong, legal and central political system where all affairs of
the state are exercised by a legal authority. It does not permit a parallel
authority. The way punishments and reprisals were meted out in Swat and
elsewhere by these so-called Islamists have no justification in Islam; these are
state functions.

People, who have endured their excesses, tell harrowing tales of atrocities
committed. One wonders whether it is a deliberate scheme to veer people away
from the Islamic system. In this era, there is a constant struggle between two
parallel and opposing ideologies -secularism and Islam. Secularism is being
projected as the culmination of man's social, economic and political progress.
It makes religion man's personal affair with no or very little influence on his
worldly activities in all fields of life. It sets man free of any personal
accountability as long it relates to social conduct. It is a soft and easy-going
image of life. Islam, on the contrary, demands a strict code of social conduct
where wrongs and rights are strictly defined. However, there is a conscious
effort in place to project Islam as a backward and repressive system competing
with secularism. And the best way it can be done is by bringing operatives on
centrestage, who depicts Islam as a rigid and harsh ideology. These 'extremists'
penetrate in the legitimate Islamic movements and then act in a cruel and
callous manner.

Ikhwan-ul-Muslimeen of Egypt under Syed Qutb was a legitimate politico-social
movement seeking political change on the basis of Islamic principles. True that
the ruling elite of Egypt was opposed to it and dealt with the movement harshly.
Syed Qutb was executed on cooked-up anti-state charges, yet the Ikwans acted and
conducted themselves within bounds. Despite the government's strict opposition,
the popularity and membership grew. Then the movement was penetrated by elements
that preached and adopted violence from its platform. The face of Islam
projected by this 'extremist' element had the desired effect; the movement
suffered in popularity and is almost non-functional now. Islam, the religion of
peace and accommodation, suffered.

The dilemma facing Muslims all over the world is that we individually and
collectively are ignorant of the true teachings of Islam. We have let it become
the domain of a specific group, who are taken as authority to interpret it.
Majority recite the Holy Book as a ritual for blessings only. Our understanding
of what is written is at best rudimentary with emphasis on visible rituals.
Thus, the majority follows what the so-called clergy teaches and advocates. The
masses are divided in sects, cults and groups, who are rigid in beliefs and
conducts. This ignorance makes the task of extremists easy. All they need to do
is adopt an outward Islamic look and garb, do visible rituals and preach
violence - for establishment of an Islamic order. A cursory look at what has
happened in Pakistan in the past confirms this observation.

Pakistan has had a fair share of such element. We had our Mullahs like
Fazalullahs of Swat, the Mehsud Talibans and now the Pakistani Talibans; all
claiming to be the pious Muslims struggling for an Islamic society and
politico-social order. Yet, they proudly claim responsibility for the slaughter
of worshipers at the mosques. They murdered eminent religious scholars and
claimed responsibility without any regret or remorse. Even if attacks on police
posts and security installations will be regarded as acts of legitimate
retaliation, attacking places of worship and shrines; and killing innocent women
and children cannot be accepted or condoned as acts in service of Islam.

The Muslim society as a whole has become a target for subjugation. The
approaches adopted against it are multifaceted; direct military attacks as
witnessed on Iraq and Afghanistan are one dimension of this onslaught. The
perpetrators of this new 'crusade' against Islam are intelligent and wise. They
know that military victories can be overturned and are not permanent. Changing
and subverting ideology is lasting and permanent. Islam provides the motive
force and an ideology for the establishment of a society-based social justice,
distribution of wealth, equality and accountability for actions and deeds. This
is opposed to a social order where wealth is accumulated in a few hands that
wield power, can manipulate justice and are answerable to rules made by them.
One example of this inequality is the veto power that the mighty hold in the
world body - the UN which claims to be the guardian of peace and justice. These
so-called Muslim extremists are the field operatives of this modern day crusader
deployed to malign Islam and what it stands for. The question narrated in the
beginning of this write-up is pertinent and needs a comprehensive answer. Our
religious scholars must project Islam in its true spirit in thought, deeds and
actions. If we cannot do that its fate will not be different that of the
Christian faith as it stands today.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 14 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 15, 2010 Monday 7:02 PM BST

FREEZING ASSETS OF TERRORISTS 'STOPS ATTACKS EARLY'

BYLINE: David Hughes and Ben Padley, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1298 words


Cutting off the supply of finance can stop terror attacks in their early stages,
a Treasury minister said tonight.

As legislation to freeze bank accounts linked to terrorists reached the Commons,
Financial Secretary Mark Hoban said relatively small sums were needed for acts
such as the July 7 attacks or the foiled air cargo bomb plot.

The legislation to make the UK's regime for freezing the assets of terrorist
suspects more permanent has already cleared the House of Lords.

With the terror threat rated as ``severe'', Mr Hoban said: ``Just a few weeks
ago intelligence agencies encountered another plot designed to cause death and
destruction to innocent people.

``Those involved in the air cargo bomb plot ... were well connected and part of
an international network of extremists.

``It would seem that the terrorist threat we face is developing. We see the
continued emergence of a more diverse and evolved terrorist threat.''

He added: ``Small networks or even individuals acting alone are able to use
technology to their advantage, giving them the ability to wreak havoc
potentially worse than their size might indicate.

``It is clear that those who wish to do us harm operate on an increasingly
global scale and are devising ever more sophisticated methods of avoiding
detection.

``This is why we must ensure that the tools we deploy to combat terrorism remain
effective.''

One of those tools was the asset-freezing regime which ``we can use to take
preventative action to disrupt suspected terrorists''.

Mr Hoban said: ``By cutting off access to finance and preventing money from
reaching terrorist networks, we can stop individual acts in their early stages.

``Currently, around £140,000 is frozen in the UK under our domestic terrorist
asset freezing regime.

``Whilst this may not seem a large amount ... it only takes a relatively modest
amount of money to carry out a deadly attack.

``The dreadful attacks of July 7, 2005 cost less than £10,000 to carry out while
the air cargo bomb plot is also likely to have cost a comparably small amount.''

The Terrorist Asset-Freezing etc Bill will introduce a new regime following the
Supreme Court's decision earlier this year that earlier powers were defective.

The court ruled that the previous regime, dating from 2006 and which was
separate from rules affecting al Qaida and the Taliban, was defective in that it
had been implemented by order of the Privy Council rather than parliamentary
legislation.

That defect was remedied by emergency legislation passed earlier this year, but
ministers pledged at the time to introduce a permanent regime.

Mr Hoban said the new Bill included ``significant safeguards'' governing the use
of the powers and the regime would be subjected to regular reviews.

Assets will only be allowed to be frozen for more than 30 days if there was a
``reasonable belief'' that the money would be used to fund terrorists instead of
the previous ``reasonable suspicion''.

Shadow Treasury minister David Hanson said Labour supported the ``aims and
objectives'' of the Bill.

But he said Parliament's Joint Committee on Human Rights had raised a number of
concerns about the Bill including ``the need for a higher standard of proof, for
transparency on the use of closed material and on the proposed reviewer to be
appointed by Parliament rather than the Government''.

The committee's recommendations ``don't necessarily have the support of the
Opposition'', Mr Hanson said, ``but I do think it is important that they are
considered''.

Tory Matthew Hancock (W Suffolk) said: ``Far from being rushed through, this
Bill is timely. Far from it being too soon, given that there is a review of it
going on at the moment, it is very important that we get this Bill through.''

He said he wanted to see what the extent of cross-party support was in regards
to proposed changes to the standard of proof.

``As somebody who has argued that the balance in this country between civil
liberties and protection against terrorism has in the past swung too far in
favour of autocracy and away from civil liberties, I am pleased to see the new
threshold over 30 days of reasonable belief rather than reasonable suspicion,''
he said.

Keith Vaz, Labour chairman of the Home Affairs Select Committee, warned of the
need to look carefully at the legislation and not act in haste.

He added: ``One of the problems that we have had in the past is that we have not
thought carefully enough about counter-terrorism legislation until some great
event occurs.''

Liberal Democrat Julian Huppert (Cambridge) said: ``Asset freezing is a very
strong power but a very necessary power, and because it is so strong, because it
can be so draconian, it must be fair and it must be properly applied. It must
only be applied to those who are actually involved in terrorist activities.''

David Simpson, the DUP's business spokesman, said those who finance terrorists
must face far more severe sentences from the courts.

He said: ``Think too of the kind of terrorist threat that resulted in the 7/7
London bombings and the desire to commit mass murder that some Islamic militant
groups express.

``Those who assist them economically, those who provide the economic and
financial muscle to allow them to obtain their arsenal of murder are complicit
in those murders. They aid and abet those murders.

``To set out a sentencing policy that sets a maximum, not a minimum, sentence of
seven years is wholly unsatisfactory. The tariff should be considerably
higher.''

Since the Government first introduced powers to freeze the assets of terrorists,
£290,000 from 205 different accounts had been cut off, the Commons was told.

Of the 24 people currently subject to such measures, 21 had been charged or
convicted with terrorism offences, David Gauke, the Treasury Minister added.

Under the proposals, suspects who the Treasury ``reasonably believe'' to be
behind terrorist plots can be subject to such legislation.

This is lower than the ``balance of probabilities'' threshold but Mr Gauke said
it was necessary for the new law to successfully prevent terrorist attacks.

Mr Gauke said: ``Whilst a significant majority of those in the UK whose assets
have been frozen have been charged or convicted of a terrorist offence, limiting
freezing only to such people would have two significant drawbacks.

``First, it would prevent the Treasury from freezing assets in cases where it
reasonably believes that someone is involved in terrorism and where it considers
that asset-freezing is necessary to protect the public, but where that person
had not been or could not be charged. This would have a significant cost for
national security.

``Second, this would severely curtail the Treasury's ability to freeze the
assets of international terrorists or terrorist groups operating overseas.

``Many such persons and groups operate in countries where they will not be
prosecuted, perhaps because the country does not have the capability or the will
to prosecute terrorists.''

Mr Gauke added: ``The debate today has been about the balance between national
security and safeguarding civil liberties. I'm convinced that the Bill before
the House strikes the right balance between both.

``It is effective and fair, takes the necessary steps to prevent the raising and
use of funds for terrorist purposes, and sets the terrorist asset-freezing
regime in primary legislation for the first time.''

Kerry McCarthy, shadow Treasury minister, said Labour would support the Bill but
they wanted to be sure it wouldn't be struck down later because of some
perceived illegality.

She added: ``We do broadly support the principles and the intention behind this
Bill but we will be subjecting it to the best scrutiny next week in committee.''

The Bill was given an unopposed second reading and now moves to the detailed
committee stage.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Redhill And Reigate Life

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

Redhill students turn counter terrorist officers for simulated terror attack

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 373 words


Students in Redhill are this week due to turn into counter terrorist officers
fighting to save the public from attack in a simulated terror incident.

The students at East Surrey College are set to act out the police's role in a
classroom exercise mimicking their on-the-spot decisions and coordinated
response in the event of a terrorist attack.

The two-hour workshop, called All Communities Together (ACT) Now, due to take
place tomorrow, is one of a number of similar exercises which are run across the
country throughout the year.

Their aim is to encourage communities to work together to fight terrorism.

The exercise will be led by counter terrorism officers from Surrey Police and
also the Reigate and Banstead Safer Neighbourhood Team.

Participating students will play the part of a counter terrorist unit in a
mythical town, fed limited intelligence regarding a possible plot, and asked to
make decisions based on that intelligence.

Eventually, when the attack occurs, the teams will have to decide who to arrest
and when, and assess the community impact of the incident and the police
response.

Bob Lamont, community engagement officer for Surrey Police, said: "The exercise
is aimed at any age, but young people seem to find it particularly enjoyable and
learn a lot from taking part."

He said: "It is designed to encourage open and honest debate about sensitive
issues and also highlight the work counter terrorist officers do, and illustrate
the challenges they face.

"ACT Now is not intended to scare people, it's designed to be fun and thought-
provoking, encouraging those who take part to work together."

He said: "I would like to thank East Surrey College for enabling this exercise
to take place and am looking forward to some lively discussions as the students
get to grips with the scenario as it develops."

Chris Long, director of communications at East Surrey College, said: "We are
delighted to be able to work with Surrey Police to offer our students this
exciting opportunity, reinforcing key messages that they are learning during
their Travel and Tourism, and Aviation courses. "Practical exercises such as
these are fantastic ways in which to learn."

The ACT Now workshops were initially devised by Lancashire Constabulary.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday

Family's firebomb car attack terror

BYLINE: Lydia Warren

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 321 words


A FRIGHTENED mum has told how she fears her family is being targeted after their
car was wrecked in a firebomb attack.

Aafia and Shekh Malik woke at 3am to see fire outside their home in Wheler
Street, Openshaw.

They assumed it was fireworks but joined concerned neighbours in the street to
see their car engulfed in flames.

The windows of the four-year-old blue Honda Civic had been smashed and a petrol
bomb thrown inside.

They called police and the fire service, but their second car, a dark blue
Nissan Micra, caught light before they arrived.

No one was hurt, but the Honda was written off and four of the house's windows
also cracked in the heat.

The Maliks' children, three-year-old Muneeb and four-month-old Molib, were
asleep in the house at the time of the attack.

Their mother, Aafia, 30, said: We are in bad shock.

It's really distressing and I can't sleep in case it happens again. I'm looking
outside all the time.

I dread to think what could have happened if they'd thrown the firebomb inside
the house. We have two babies what could have happened to them?

Mr Malik, who works for Virgin Media, is unsure why his car was attacked, but
his wife believes it could have been racially motivated.

Mrs Malik, who moved here from Pakistan four years ago, said: We haven't got any
idea why we've been targeted, but we have heard Asian people have had problems
here before, so maybe it's that. We just hope the police catch whoever did this.

The cars were insured but not having them has really affected our lives.

My son goes to nursery ten miles away but I can't take him, and the prams were
in the back of the car and destroyed.

I can't walk far because I recently had a C-section with my second child, so
it's a struggle. It's really affected us.

Police, who said they are unaware of any racial motivation behind the attack,
removed the cars and inquiries are

ongoing.

Anyone with information is urged to contact police on 0161 872 5050.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ordeal Aafia and her family are carless after their Honda Civic, left,
was destoyed in the attack and their Nissan, below, was badly damaged

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday

Houses of Parliament put plans in place to deal with terrorist attack

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

LENGTH: 280 words



HIGHLIGHT: PARLIAMENTARY authorities have drawn up contingency plans to deal
with the threat of a Mumbai-style armed attack on the Palace of Westminster, it
was disclosed last night.


An e-mail circulated to all staff working in the House of Commons and the House
of Lords stresses that there is currently no "specific threat" to parliament,
but that measures were in place to respond if an attack did occur.

The e-mail from the senior Commons official responsible for security, the
Serjeant at Arms Jill Pay, and her counterpart in the Lords, the acting Black
Rod Ted Lloyd-Jukes, said the plan had been drawn up in conjunction with the
Metropolitan Police Service (MPS).

"An armed attack on parliament would result in casualties and significant
confusion," it states. "The latest MPS advice is that an effective contingency
plan should concentrate on evacuating members, staff and visitors away from
danger as quickly as possible.

"Locating, containing and neutralising the threat will be a role for armed
police officers."

In the event of an attack an urgent message will be broadcast ordering the
evacuation of the parliamentary estate, advising people to leave by the nearest
exit.

Some key groups, such as unarmed security staff, doorkeepers and attendants are
to be given special advice on how to lead groups of visitors from the estate and
away from danger.

"Prescriptive directions for the parliamentary estate are impossible to devise;
the incident could be multi-faceted and fast developing," the e-mail states.

The disclosure of the contingency plan comes after it emerged earlier this year
that Western intelligence agencies were investigating a suspected al-Qaida plot
to mount attacks in major European cities.

A Commons spokesman said: "We have contingency plans to cover a range of
emergencies, of which this is one. It does not relate to a specific threat."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

German minister warns of plan for terror attack within weeks

LENGTH: 372 words


German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said on 17 November that the
authorities had received a tip-off by a foreign partner according to which there
may be plans for an attack in the country as early as the end of the month.

In remarks made during a press conference and broadcast on German
Deutschlandfunk radio, De Maiziere added that he had asked the federal police to
take appropriate security measures to face up to the current threat level.

In a first clips broadcast on the radio, he said: "According to a tip-off by a
foreign partner, which we received after the Yemen [parcel bomb] incident, a
suspected plan for an attack is to be put into action at the end of November,
and our own most recent findings resulting from an investigation by the Federal
Criminal Police Office in connection with people in Islamist circles confirm
once again, and independently of that, the sustained efforts being made by
Islamist groups to plan attacks in the Federal Republic of Germany. Here, too,
just as in the second case I have mentioned, there are concrete investigative
leads."

In a second clip, he said: "The federal and regional security authorities are
well-prepared for this situation. Already a year ago, wide-ranging measures and
concepts were drawn up and implemented. These are now being applied once again.
That is why I have asked the federal police to take account of the current
threat level by taking security measures adapted to the specific situation, in
particular at airports and train stations. This stands until further notice."

The TV explained that the reference to "a year ago" was to various threatening
videos that had been posted on the Internet, in response to which lists of
objects to be protected had been drawn up. It added that, in addition to
airports and train stations, De Maiziere had said that regional authorities
would work on the protection of public rooms and spaces more generally.
According to the TV, the minister added that this did not mean that it was not
known where an attack might take place, and that the focus on airports and
stations did not suggest that there was a particularly high level of threat
against them.

Source: Deutschlandfunk radio, Cologne, in German 1211 gmt 17 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan agencies said fear terror attacks in 10 cities on Id

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Khabrain on 16 November

["'Id al-Adha: Suicide Attacks Feared in 10 Cities, Including Lahore" - INP
headline]

Faisalabad - Suicide attackers may target mosques and imambargahs [place where
Shia Muslims gather to mourn the martyrdom of Imam Hussain bin Ali] in 10 big
cities, including Lahore, Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Jhang, and Multan, on the
occasion of 'Id al-Adha. The intelligence agencies have sent a report to the
Punjab Government in this regard.

According to the details received, a report, received by the Punjab Home
Department from the intelligence agencies, has warned that to fulfil their
ulterior motives, the suicide attackers can do anything in 10 big cities,
including Muzaffargarh, Multan, Jhang, Lahore, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Sargodha,
Dera Ghazi Khan, Vehari, and Rawalpindi, during the three holidays [ 17 to 19
November]on 'Id al-Adha. The terrorists can target important political figures,
senior officials, mosques, and imambargahs; therefore, the Punjab Government
should take foolproof measures in all these cities.

Meanwhile, after recovering a land mine from Shah Rukn-e-Alam Express coming
from Karachi to Multan, strict orders have also been given to senior officials
of the Faisalabad railway station to ensure patrol by the railway police at its
installations.

Furthermore, the Home Department has ordered high security alert at all big and
small railway stations.

Source: Khabrain, Islamabad, in Urdu 16 Nov 10 pp 4, 8

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    November 17, 2010 Wednesday 5:41 PM BST

TUBE STAFF 'HAD NO SPECIFIC TRAINING TO HANDLE TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Rosa Silverman, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


The devastating terror atrocities in Madrid in 2004 saw 191 people killed and
hundreds more wounded by bombs detonated on commuter trains.

Yet London Tube staff were given no specific training about what to do in the
event of a similar attack in the British capital, the inquest into the 2005 July
7 bombings heard.

A series of Tube workers were asked by a lawyer for some of the victims'
families, Caoilfhionn Gallagher, whether they had been trained in what to expect
in the event of an explosion.

But most of them answered that they had not.

Train driver Jeffrey Porter replied: ``None at all, no.''

Train driver Dave Matthews and former train driver Paul Thompson gave similar
answers.

One witness, trains duty manager Trevor Rodgers, said his training had prepared
him to an extent.

But he added: ``I don't think we were trained to deal with that type of
incident.''

Train driver Simon Blakesley said he had received no training about what to do
in the event of a bomb but had been trained in the Mayday procedure.

Only train driver Craig Aylen said he had received training not only in the
Mayday procedure but also in how to evacuate passengers from a train and what to
do if a suspect package was discovered.

Staff also had to contend with was what was described as a ``stone-age'' radio
system in operation on the London Underground network at the time, the inquest
heard.

Mr Porter, whose Tube stopped alongside the one which was bombed, told of the
problems with the radio, saying the user had no idea whether or not their
message had been received.

Mr Blakesley said the cab radio was ``very old'', although he was generally able
to get hold of someone when he needed to.

Mr Thompson added: ``There were dead spots where you couldn't get through to the
controller in certain areas.''

A new radio system, called Connect, has been introduced since the bombings.

This enables Tube drivers to communicate anywhere within the network, the
inquest heard.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

Terror attacks make Islam 'demonised'

LENGTH: 9 words



HIGHLIGHT: ISLAM is being "demonised" as a result of atrocities carried out in
the name of a "distorted" version of the faith, former Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Lord Blair of Boughton said yesterday.


Lord Blair also described Islam as a "faith of peace".

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday

Germany boosts security amid 'concrete' fears of Islamist terror attacks

BYLINE: Kate Connolly Berlin

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 466 words


Security at German airports, railway stations and major tourist attractions was
heightened yesterday after the government said it had received concrete warnings
that an Islamist terror cell was planning to launch attacks across the country
towards the end of this month.

In city centres, traffic ground to a halt as police imposed emergency controls,
while the number of armed security personnel, particularly at airports, was
significantly increased as travellers were warned to be vigilant.

"The security situation in Germany has become more serious," said the interior
minister, Thomas de Maiziere, in a statement.

"We have concrete indications of a series of attacks planned for the end of
November."

According to senior security forces, Germany's federal criminal police are
investigating information that a terror cell consisting of four Islamists from
India and others from Pakistan is either planning to travel to Germany or is
already operating there. The names of the suspects are known to officials.

De Maiziere added, in an appeal for calm, that Germany would show its strengths:
"We won't be fazed by this."

The warnings follow a recent security scare over parcel bombs sent from Yemen to
the US, one of which went through a German airport before it was intercepted in
the UK. The explosives were hidden in printer cartridges.

De Maiziere made it clear yesterday that the new warning was separate from
previous ones, but had come as a direct result of the Yemen incident, "in the
form of a warning from an international partner," he said, without naming names.

The Yemen parcel bomb plot, he added, had highlighted "the adaptability and
persistence of terrorists in pursuing their aims", and had shown the
"reliability of some leads".

He said German police, working together "with people from the Islamic area,
confirm independently the persistent efforts of Islamic groups to carry out
attacks in Germany".

Security at potential target sites such as airports and stations would be
increased until further notice, he said, adding that while there were reasons
for concern there were "no reasons for hysteria".

Germany has long been considered a target for militants linked to al-Qaida
because of the more than 4,500 military personnel it has based in Afghanistan,
and because of its role as the financial powerhouse of Europe.

Der Spiegel called the warning a "psycho war against Germany", and said the
country had to prepare for the fact that, although it had so far escaped an
attack, it could be about to join the list of victims of al-Qaida strikes.
Warnings had been received before the attacks in Madrid in 2004, London in 2005
and Mumbai in 2008, but to no avail, it said.

Captions:

A German policeman armed with a submachine gun stands guard with a colleague at
Berlin's central railway station

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Germany steps up security after terror attack tip-off

BYLINE: dave graham berlin

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 580 words


Germany said yesterday it had firm evidence Islamist militants were planning
attacks in the next two weeks and ordered increased security at potential
targets including train stations and airports.

The country s top security official, Thomas de Maiziere, said the move came
after new intelligence came to light. Germans will see a visible response to the
threat, including an increased police presence at transport hubs.

Despite the heightened security presence, he urged calm. Officials did not
provide specific details about the threat.

There is reason for worry, but there is no reason for hysteria,  Mr de Maiziere
said.  We will not allow international terror to limit us in our way of life and
our culture of freedom.

Germany has no colour-coded or number system for measuring security levels
comparable to those in the US, Britain or France    and is more cautious in
publicly discussing the degrees of threat, on the grounds it could endanger
efforts to prevent an attack.

Though Germany has escaped major terrorist attacks   such as the Madrid train
bombings of 2004 and the London attacks of 2005   at least two major plots have
been thwarted or failed before they could be carried out.

Besides the known findings, we now have additional, relevant indications of
possible danger that security authorities agree  justify our assessment that we
are now facing a new situation,  Mr de Maiziere said.

He cited a tip from an unspecified country about a suspected attack planned for
the end of November   though he did not say where it was to take place.

That tip arrived after the interception of two mail bombs mailed from Yemen to
the US   one of which went through a German airport before it was found in
Britain. The Yemen plot points to  the adaptability and the persistence of
terrorists in pursuing their aims,  and also underlines  the reliability of some
leads,  Mr de Maiziere said in a statement to reporters, without elaborating.

He said German authorities had also gathered concrete intelligence of their own,
pointing to  sustained efforts  by Islamic extremist groups to plan attacks in
Germany. Authorities have launched investigations that could lead to charges.

De Maiziere said the current risk assessment was comparable to the one before
last year s national election   when the country also raised security. One
trigger for that alert was a video in which a German speaker threatened a  rude
awakening  if Germans did not push their political parties to withdraw the
country s soldiers from Afghanistan.

By yesterday afternoon, police carrying automatic weapons and wearing protective
gear could be seen patrolling railway platforms at the Berlin s Central Station.

However, Germans did not appear particularly concerned.

I don t feel threatened, otherwise we would not be walking around here in
Berlin,  said Angelika Balkenhoel, arriving from nearby Hamburg.

Mr de Maiziere, a senior figure in Chancellor Anglea Merkel s centre-right
government, had initially played down the threat last month when the United
States and Britain issued warnings that Germany and France could be targeted by
al Qaeda and allied militants.

But earlier this month he acknowledged there were  serious indications  of a
threat to Europe and the United States.

Germany has long viewed itself as a potential target because it has 4590
military personnel stationed in Afghanistan, the third largest contingent of the
150,000-strong international force fighting the Taliban-led insurgency.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: warning: Germany s security chief Thomas de Maiziere.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Security stepped up after 'concrete' warning of terrorist attacks;
GERMANY

BYLINE: TONY PATERSON

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 215 words


THE GERMAN government is stepping up security at all airports and train stations
after receiving "concrete indications" that terrorist attacks are being planned
in the country for the end of November.

The alert, which comes less than a month after Germany dismissed American
warnings of terror attacks in Europe, has led to increased police patrols in
major cities and the introduction of spot checks at airports and border control
points.

Announcing the measures, the Interior Minister, Thomas de Maizière, said Germany
had received a tip-off from another government that "sustained efforts" were
being made by Islamic extremists to carry out attacks. "There are grounds for
concern but not hysteria," he added.

The tip-off follows the interception of two parcel bombs en route from Yemen to
the United States last month. One of the bombs was sent via Cologne airport,
where security guards failed to detect it. The bomb was eventually discovered in
Britain.

Mr de Maizière was subsequently given a "dressing down" by Chancellor Angela
Merkel for having failed to inform her about the bomb and the security services'
failure to find it. Yesterday's warning was in part designed to correct
impressions that Germany had gone soft on terrorism or was not taking the threat
of bomb attacks seriously.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 19, 2010 Friday

Police defuse 30kg bomb, foil terror attack in Pakistan's Peshawar

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar: Peshawar police averted a major terrorist attack by defusing a 30
kilogram bomb planted beneath a bridge near a police post here Thursday evening.
The explosive material was dumped in a drum planted beneath a bridge close to
Waheed Abad police post here. The police had prior information about the
suspected explosives. Acting on a tip-off, police conducted a search operation
at Waheed Chowki and found the bomb concealed in a drum. The bomb disposal squad
was called to defuse the device, police said. Officials said the bomb could have
caused many casualties and widespread destruction if it had exploded. Separately
an official of Khasadar force was abducted by miscreants in Bara tehsil of
Khyber Agency.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 2251gmt
18 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 19, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: More than one terrorist organization behind recent attack in Karachi

LENGTH: 484 words


Text of report by Asif Ali Syed headlined "More than one organization involved
in CID center attack: Investigation team" published by Pakistani newspaper Jang
on 16 November

Karachi -- The investigation team that conducted investigations into the
terrorist attack on the CID [Criminal Investigation Department] civil line
office says that more than one organization was involved in the attack on the
CID center. The investigators have expressed doubt that the level of the
terrorist act shows that it cannot be the handiwork of some groups alone.
Therefore, the terrorist organizations launched a combined action. The police
sources say in this connection that it can be gauged from evidence discovered
during the investigation and the condition of the site in the wake of the
explosion that the same group is involved in the CID center [attack] that had
forged alliances against the government and agencies taking part in operations
against the defunct organizations.

The police sources said that when the United States imposed a ban on Al-Qa'ida
[Al-Qa'idah] and the organizations associated with it, actions against defunct
jihadi organizations were launched and these organization were banned. On this,
all organizations had forged an anti-US alliance and against those siding with
it and launched joint terrorist acts across the country. Meanwhile, these
defunct organizations faced shortages of funds due to freezing of bank accounts
and assets of the terrorists. They started launching criminal acts to collect
funds for themselves while the money received from the criminal acts was also
transferred abroad.

In an exclusive interview with Jang, deputy CID Inspector General Saud Ahmed
Mirza said that the investigations into the culprits involved in the CID center
attack make it clear that the CID was a high-value target which no single group
of terrorists could have accomplished. He said that all the terrorist groups are
interlinked and only their names are different. All these people launch such big
acts together. He said all the groups of Lashkar-e Jhangvi and other terrorist
groups are part of the Pakistani Taleban movement. It does not appear to be the
act of a separate group. To a question, Saud Mirza said that the investigation
team could not find any clue about the vehicle used in explosion and it has not
yet been ascertained which vehicle was used to carry the explosive. He said CCTV
footage from several institutions failed to provide any useful information about
the culprits. He said that the process of collecting evidence from the site
continues. To a question, Saud Mirza replied that no alternative arrangement
could be made for the office of the CID civil lines due to which official work
of CID could not start. He said that efforts are under way to rent premises
elsewhere and the CID staff will be given a substitute place.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 16 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday

Terrorists planned attack against German parliament - report

LENGTH: 531 words


Text of report in English by independent German Spiegel Online website on 20
November

Officials erected crowd barriers in front of the Reichstag building this week
after the German interior minister put the country on alert for terrorism on
Wednesday [17 November].

It would be an attack on the very heart of democracy. SPIEGEL has learned that
terrorists may have been planning an attack on the Reichstag, the home of the
German parliament and one of the most popular tourist destinations in Berlin.
Two suspected culprits are already believed to be in Berlin.

According to information obtained by from German security authorities,
Al-Qa'idah and associated groups are believed to be planning an attack on the
Reichstag building in Berlin, the headquarters of Germany's parliament and also
an attraction visited by thousands of tourists every day. As part of the attack,
terrorists would seek to take hostages and perpetrate a bloodbath using
firearms.

The information about the alleged plans came from a jihadist who is currently
abroad and contacted the German Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) several
times in recent days. The jihadist apparently wants to abandon the group. The
information provided by the jihadist informant was apparently the reason behind
German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere's decision to hold a press
conference on Wednesday warning of an imminent attack in the country.

According to the caller, the terror cell is comprised of six people - two of
whom are believed already to have travelled to Berlin six to eight weeks ago,
and are now staying in the city. Four other perpetrators - a German, Turk, a
northern African and a further man the jihadist could not identify, are
currently waiting to travel to Germany. The attacks are purportedly being
planned for February or March.

Apparent plans for second attack

The second warning backing de Maiziere's concerns came from the United States.
The US federal police, the FBI, sent a cable to the BKA two weeks ago noting
another possible further attack. A Shi'i-Indian group known as the "Saif," or
sword, is believed to have engaged in a pact with Al-Qa'idah and to have sent
two men to Germany to carry out an attack there.

Both were believed to be travelling to the United Arab Emirates on 22 November,
where they would be supplied with new travel papers so that they could continue
on to Germany. The suspects allegedly already possess visas for Europe's
Schengen zone of visa-free travel. The FBI has named Mushtaq Altaf bin-Khadri as
the man behind the attack plans.

The man believed to be trying to smuggle the would-be terrorists into Europe is
54-year-old weapons dealer Dawood Ibrahim, who the United Nations believes is a
major backer of terrorism. He is considered to be one of the men behind the
terror attacks perpetrated in Mumbai in November 2008. The FBI and Germany's BKA
both consider the message to be extremely important. However, the US foreign
intelligence service, the CIA, and both the German foreign intelligence service,
the BND, and its domestic counterpart, the Office for the Protection of the
Constitution, are sceptical.

Source: Spiegel Online website, Hamburg, in English 20 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 21, 2010 Sunday

Terror attack in West traced to Pakistan to have "serious" impact - article

LENGTH: 589 words


Text of article by Dr Farrukh Saleem headlined "Capital suggestion" published by
Pakistan newspaper The News website on 21 November

On December 16 1971, Pakistan lost 143,998 square kilometres (land and water) of
her area. Pakistan's National Security Doctrine (NSD), a country's strategy to
survive as a nation-state, was never to be the same again. In Multan, on January
20 1972, President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto laid the foundation of Project-706,
Pakistan's equivalent of America's Manhattan Project that produced the first
atomic bombs.

President Bhutto authorised project costs of US $450 million and by 1985
Pakistan had crossed the 'threshold of weapons-grade uranium production'. Within
two years of crossing the threshold Pakistan had acquired the ability to test a
nuclear device. On May 28 1998, Pakistan conducted a total of five nuclear tests
with the largest reported yield of 25-36 kT. In 2009, Pakistan's peak stockpile
was estimated to be 70-90 warheads with a maximum missile range of 2,500 km.

Pakistan has to survive as a nation-state and Pakistan's NSD must therefore
cater to at least two potential threats. First threat (rated high): a 2,912 km
border on the east with the massing up of the Indian army's Corps XV, IX, XVI,
X, XI, II and I plus the 3rd Armoured Division, 4th Rapid Division and 2nd
Armoured Brigade plus air force stations at Jaisalmer, Utarlai and Bhuj. Second
threat (rated low): a 2,430 km border on the west.

Since 1998, Pakistan has had a tri-podal National Security Doctrine. First leg:
Corps I, II, IV, X, XXX and XXXI headquartered in Managla, Multan, Lahore,
Rawalpindi, Gujranwala and Bahawalpur, respectively. Second leg: Non-state
actors plus FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] as a buffer-zone plus
projection of power into Afghanistan. Third leg: Nuclear deterrent.

Pakistan's tri-podal NSD has successfully catered to threats both in the east as
well as the west. Then came September 11. Pakistan's NSD has since been turned
upside-down. NATO-ISAF has amassed 150,000 troops just west of us (Soviet troops
in the area peaked at 120,000) plus India has penetrated Afghanistan just to
encircle Pakistan plus some of the non-state actors that Pakistan thought were
part of her NSD have now turned against the Pakistani state itself.

Pakistan's NSD, with very little input from civilian governments, is now in a
state of disarray with little or no consensus on how to counter terrorism.
Pakistan's civil society - particularly the political parties and the media -
also lacks the required consensus. And consensus, to be sure, is the principal
prerequisite to a successful counter-terrorism drive.

The PPP finds fighting terrorism in its political interest while the PML-N does
not. The PPP has rightly identified primary drivers behind terrorism as being
indigenous while the other continues to be in a state of total denial.

Then came the floods. With Pakistan's political class making itself completely
irrelevant, the Pakistani army was left to fight terrorism plus provide flood
relief. With a $9.7 billion flood-tag plus a budget in high deficit, the
Pakistani army largely depends on American aid for flood relief. But, American
aid - any foreign aid for that matter - comes with strings attached.

With an absolute lack of consensus within the Pakistani state and society on how
to counter terrorism the bloodbath continues. Furthermore, a strike in the West
traced back to Pakistan will have serious repercussions for us.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 21 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 21, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan agencies arrest alleged "mastermind" of terror attacks

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Terrorist, involved in attack on
intelligence agency offices, arrested along with wife" published by Pakistani
newspaper Ausaf on 20 November

Faisalabad, 20 November: Intelligence agencies arrested Rafiq, son of Shafiq, an
alleged terrorist from Multan who had attacked intelligence agencies offices in
Multan, along with his wife. The alleged terrorist's wife is conversant in six
languages. They wanted to attack minorities' worship place and hospital near
Chiniot. Significant documents and CDs of the sensitive places were also
recovered during preliminary interrogation.

According to the police sources, the Sargodha Road police arrested Rafiq, son of
Shafiq, mastermind of the terrorists, who perpetrated suicide attacks at various
places, including offices of intelligence agencies in Multan, along with his
wife in a dramatic manner.

During the preliminary interrogation, Rafiq, mastermind of the terrorists,
disclosed that they were about to perpetrate simultaneous suicide attacks at
minorities' worship place and hospital near Chiniot. Rafiq's wife had made some
friends in Chenab Nagar, and with their help she wanted to perpetrate suicide
attack.

Sources disclosed sensitive information, documents and CDs of the sensitive
places were also recovered from the alleged terrorist. Following the preliminary
interrogation, the intelligence agencies took the alleged terrorist into custody
and moved him to an undisclosed location. Sources disclosed major disclosures
were expected from the accused.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad, in Urdu 20 Nov 10, pp 1, 6

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               November 21, 2010
                                 First Edition

Jail for terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 97 words


THUGS who subjected a 16 year-old schoolboy to a terrifying attack in a park
have been jailed.

Luke Jobe and Reece Holton, both 18, and 20 year-old Michael Tyson, all from
Solihull, West Midlands, admitted their part in the attack at Warwick Crown
Court this week. During the attack youngster was threatened with a knife,
knocked down and kicked.

Jobe was sentenced to 12 month for affray and possessing an offensive weapon.
Holton and Tyson admitted wounding their victim and two charges of possessing
imitation firearms. Holton got a two-year sentence. Tyson's term was 15 months.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERRORIST PLOT TO ATTACK REICHSTAG;
WORLD WATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 41 words


A decision by German authorities to step up security measures at airports, train
stations and other public places this week was prompted by the discovery of
terrorist plans to break into the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin and
shoot hostages.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

TERROR ATTACK VICTIM NEEDED 90 STITCHES;
Hooded thugs smash way into man's house

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292 words


A MAN needed more than 90 stitches to a mass of wounds after a frenzied attack
by a brutal armed gang who smashed their way into his home.

Six men brandishing a claw hammer and blades burst into the terrified
44-year-old victim's flat in Paisley's South End.

They repeatedly lashed out at his face, head, body and legs during the horrific
beating.

His home was also ransacked and a number of items, including cash, was taken.

The badly injured man was taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital where he
received emergency treatment.

One source said: "This man's wounds were horrendous. His face and head were a
mass of wounds and there were injuries too to his body and leg.

"I understand medical staff had to insert more than 90 stitches into his wounds.
He was in a terrible mess."

The vicious assault was at the man's home in the Thrushcraigs area of the town
late on Wednesday night.

A man, who lives close to the scene of the attack, said: "I was told his door
was kicked in around 11.30pm.

"There were at least six men who burst in. Some were hooded, some had scarves
over their faces and all wore dark clothes.

"They inflicted terrible wounds on this man and I think he is still in hospital.

"This must have been terrifying, but why it happened I've no idea.

"Some of the attackers had blades and one carried a claw hammer."

Last night detectives stepped up the hunt for the attackers and appealed for
witnesses.

One officer said: "If anyone saw a group of men in the Thrushcraigs and
Barterholm Road areas, we would ask them to let us know.

"Whatever information you have that might help this inquiry ring Paisley Police
Office on 0141 532 5900 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

Police are treating the incident as a serious assault.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Philippines confirms terror threat, "downplays" terrorist attack capability

LENGTH: 848 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Manila Times website on 23
November

[Report by Ana Mae G. Roa with MPC: "Palace confirms terror threat but downplays
attack capability"]

SECURITY OFFICIALS yesterday said terrorists do not have the capability of
staging attacks in Metro Manila even as the government remains on alert with
intelligence reports confirming the threats.

Concepcion B. Clamour, National Intelligence Coordinating Agency assistant
director-general, said current threat level in Metro Manila is moderate, defined
as the intent to undertake a terrorist attack but hampered by lack of capability
to do so.

"The intention has always been there so we maintained moderate or low level for
Metro Manila," she said in a briefing at the Presidential Situation Room located
in Malacanang Park.

Moderate is the second of a four-step threat level assessment of intelligence
and security agencies. Others are low, high and extreme.

Military operations in the provinces of Sulu and Basilan in Southwestern
Mindanao have prevented terrorist groups from operating beyond the region, said
National Security Adviser Cesar P. Garcia, quoting retired Lt. Gen. Ben D.
Dolorfino, former chief of the Western Mindanao Command.

Further, Mr Garcia said terrorist groups are suffering from lack of foreign
funding support, a key factor in mobilizing attacks.

"Money translates to capability," he said.

Some members of Abu Sayyaf, Jemaah Islamiyah and other radical groups may be in
Metro Manila to flee from military operations but not to engage in terrorist
activities, Mr Garcia said.

"So there is no doubt that there could be some of them who are hiding here not
because they are going to engage any terrorist attack but they are trying to
escape from the offensive military organizations being conducted in the southern
Philippines," Mr Garcia said.

Six foreign countries, namely, the United States, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, the United Kingdom and France have recently issued travel advisories
against the Philippines for alleged terrorist threats.

Malacanang, however, has downplayed the warnings, saying the analysis of the
threat is not consistent with what terrorist groups normally do.

Based on classification, the four terrorism threat levels are:

* low - no information to suggest a specific and imminent terrorist threat in
Metro Manila and other major political and economic centres;

* moderate alert - a terrorist attack is possible but not likely;

* high - strong possibility a terrorist attack within a short time; and

* extreme - grouped into severe or terrorist attack highly likely, and critical
when a terrorist attack has occurred or has just been preempted and follow-up
attacks are expected.

High alert has been raised for some municipalities in Zamboanga Peninsula,
Northern Mindanao, Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao and Socsksargen (South
Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Sarangani, General Santos), while the rest of the
country is at low level, said Ms Clamour.

Presidential situation room

Meanwhile, a situation room within the Palace has been set up for President
Benigno S. C. Aquino III to provide a daily assessment of the security situation
nationwide.

The facility headed by Zenaida F. Brosas, assistant director-general of the
National Security Council, will also double up as crisis management operation
centre during national crises.

The Presidential Situation Room was created under Administrative Order 2, signed
in the aftermath of the Aug. 23 bus siege where eight Hong Kong tourists were
killed after being held hostage by disgruntled policeman Rolando D. Mendoza.
Mendoza was also killed after the 10-hour drama in front of the Luneta
Grandstand in Manila.

The national crisis management committee shall be convened at the Presidential
Situation Room if the alert level is high to extreme, Mr Garcia said.

On a related development, Director Eduardo G. Batac, spokesman of the Department
of National Defence (DND ), and outgoing National Capital Region Command
(NCRCOM) chief Maj. Gen. Arthur I. Tabaquero yesterday said in a press briefing
that there is no imminent terrorist threat in Metro Manila, contrary to a
statement Friday thatsupposedly came from NCRCOM.

The statement announced the reassignment of Mr Tabaquero to Eastern Mindanao
Command. The report said several terrorist groups have continued to use the NCR
as a "support base."

Sought for clarification, NCRCOM spokesman Lt. Col. Armand F. Rico said he is
not authorized to comment on the issue.

"What you have seen is a report which is unofficial. We don't know where it came
from; we have to verify it," Mr Batac said.

"The NCRCOM has not yet been turned over [to the new commander]. There should be
no after tour of duty report yet," he added.

Brig. Gen. Jose Z. Mabanta, Jr., Armed Forces spokesman, noted the unsigned
statement was "raw, unverified and needs to be assessed."

Mr Tabaquero said a probe is being conducted on the statement. He added that he
will release an official report upon his turnover tentatively scheduled
tomorrow.

Source: The Manila Times website, Manila, in English 23 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Axe terror as raiders attack shop staff

BYLINE: ADRIAN RUTHERFORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 148 words


TWO shop workers were attacked with an axe during a terrifying robbery in
Belfast city centre, police said today.

Two men entered the shop in the Gresham Street area around 2.15pm yesterday.

One of the men attacked a glass fronted cabinet with the axe and a struggle took
place with two male members of staff.

One staff member was hit on the arm and leg and the second on the back. Their
injuries are not believed to be serious.

The two robbers made off empty-handed. It is believed they got into a small
silver car in the Gresham Street area and drove down Samuel Street towards
Milfield.

One of the men was described as being 5ft 6 in to 5ft 8in, slim, with a thin
face.He was wearing a black deerstalker hat, black shirt, black sports jacket
and silver tie. The other was said to be 5ft 6in to 5ft 8in, wearing a dark
woollen peak hat and a high visibility jacket with a stripe across the chest.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Reichstag shut after warning of terror attack

BYLINE: Erik Kirschbaum

LENGTH: 245 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Reichstag in Berlin was abruptly closed to tourists yesterday
after reports of a plot by Islamist militants to attack Germany's historic
parliament building.


The shutdown of the majestic structure's modern glass cupola and roof terrace
reflected growing worries about terrorism in a country that until now has been
mostly spared violence.

One of Germany's most popular tourist attractions, the Reichstag is visited by
about three million people each year.

Only small groups with advance bookings were allowed past police barricades
yesterday, with thousands of others being turned away.

"It's unfortunate, but I'm sure police have their reasons," said Peter Kalle,
50, a Bavarian tourist, after he and his family were denied entrance. "Dealing
with the terrorist threat is more important than sightseeing."

A spokesman for the Reichstag offered no explanation for the closure, but said
it would last "until further notice". About 60 armed police were stationed
around the building.

Der Spiegel magazine reported on Saturday that a jihadist living abroad had
informed authorities of a plan for armed militants to enter the Reichstag and
open fire. However, police played down the report, saying there were no concrete
details.

Interior minister Thomas de Maiziere said last Thursday authorities were on
guard against threats of an armed attack of the kind that killed 166 in the
Indian city of Mumbai in 2008.

Heavily armed police have since been a fixture at rail stations and airports.

"We want to live freely and without fear in Germany," Chancellor Angela Merkel
said at the weekend. "No terror threat is going to stop us from that."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               East Kent Gazette

                               November 24, 2010

Terror of attack by rottweiler

BYLINE: Dawn Kingsford

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 288  words


A Terrier owner from Sittingbourne is calling for a change in the law to make
dog owners more accountable after a terrifying attack on his puppy.

Thomas Pexton was left covered in blood, after his seven-month-old border
terrier was attacked by a rottweiler while they were out walking in a park.

Mr Pexton, a builder from Chatsworth Drive, says Amber was left riddled with
puncture wounds and spent three nights at the vets.

Still traumatised by the terrifying attack, at the White Horse Country Park near
Detling, Thomas, 36, said: "The rottweiler was off its lead and lunged at Amber.
The man with the dog tried to call him, but had absolutely no control over this
huge, 100lb animal.

"I cannot over-emphasise the severity of the attack, which left me in tears and
my dog in such a terrible state - I thought she was dead.

"I pleaded with the owner and his wife to help, but they basically said just
'get your dog help' and leave us alone."

The incident on November 12 was reported to police, but Mr Pexton says he has
been advised that as there was no independent witness his only course of action
is a private prosecution.

Mr Pexton said: "I feel really let down. My dog was left for dead and I've been
left high and dry. The law has to change.

"Dogs, like cars, are lethal weapons in the wrong hands. It should be a legal
requirement that all dog owners are traceable, perhaps through a compulsory
register, and held accountable in the event of an unprovoked attack like this."

Mr Pexton added: "I am a responsible owner who has thought long and hard about
the introduction of a dog into the family home.

"Now, thanks to this attack, I am fearful of how Amber will view the world and
other animals when she finally gets to go out again."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 280


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

MET CHIEF: TERROR THREAT IS GREATEST SINCE CLUB ATTACK

BYLINE: STANDARD REPORTER

LENGTH: 130 words


BRITAIN is today at the greatest risk of a terror attack since the failed
Haymarket car bombs in London three years ago, Scotland Yard chief Sir Paul
Stephenson warned today. In a veiled warning of a new attack, he urged people to
be alert to suspicious behaviour saying they should act as the eyes and ears of
the police. In a speech to the Royal United Services Institute in London, he
said: "In my judgment, and this is a view shared by my senior colleagues in the
security service, this is undoubtedly asÊ dangerous a time as we have seen for
the UK, and UK interests abroad, since the attempted attacks on the Tiger Tiger
nightclub in LondonÊ and Glasgow airport in 2007."

His comments come amid fears that Islamic terrorists are planning a Mumbai-style
attack on a European city.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday

Minister to remember India's Mumbai terror attack victims - report

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 25 November: Indian Home Minister P Chidambaram will lead Mumbaikars
Friday [26 November] in remembering those killed during the 26/11 Mumbai terror
attacks.

On the second anniversary of the audacious terror strike, Chidambaram, Indian
Petroleum Minister Murli Deora and Chief Minister of western Indian state
Maharashtra Prithviraj

Chavan will participate at a commemoration function, to be held at the CNG
filling station in suburban Borivli Friday morning.

P Unnikrishnan, father of slain NSG (National Security Guards) officer Major
Sandeep Unnikrishnan, who has undertaken a cycle tour from India Gate in Delhi,
will join a peace march at the Gateway of India here.

A candle-lit silent prayer rally will be organized by the College of Social
Work, Nirmala Niketan and family members of 26/11 victims, from Cama Hospital
lane to St Xavier's college in South Mumbai.

The Indo-American Society has organized a meeting with Charles Cannon and Kia
Scherr from One Life Alliance, survivors of the terror attacks, as Mumbai
commemorates the city's undying spirit lauded by US President Barack Obama
during his tribute to 26/11 martyrs here earlier this month.

At the CST railway station, there will be a commemoration service for the 26/11
martyrs, a railway official said. A wreath will be laid to remember the 166
people killed during the Mumbai attacks.

Over 50 persons were killed and close to 90 injured when Ajmal Kasab and another
terrorist Ismail started firing indiscriminately at the busy rail terminus in
south Mumbai on that fateful night of 26 November two years ago.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0724gmt 25 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

Cyber-terrorists could use supervirus to attack Britain

BYLINE: Morag Lindsay

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 384 words


A "supervirus" blamed for disrupting Iran's nuclear programme could pose the new
terror threat to the UK, a north-east expert has warned.

Reports yesterday suggested the Stuxnet worm - a computer virus which targets
control systems found in industrial plants - had been traded on the black market
and could be used by terrorists to target power stations, food distribution
networks, hospitals, traffic lights and even dams.

One unnamed source was quoted as saying: "We have hard evidence that the virus
is in the hands of bad guys, and they have realised that this kind of virus
could be a devastating tool."

Ian Allison, head of the School of Computing at the Robert Gordon University in
Aberdeen, said the internet was awash with rumours about the so-called
"supervirus" yesterday.

And while it's impossible to say how much truth is in any of them, he said there
was no doubt that cyber-terrorism was a genuine concern for governments around
the world.

"From what I understand this Stuxnet worm takes computer viruses to a new
level," he said.

"Unlike traditional viruses, these superviruses don't require us humans to have
some part in their transfer - either by sending an e-mail, or using an infected
USB stick which then replicates the virus in another machine.

"They also attack the physical properties of their targets, such as chips or
control systems, rather than just attacking information or data on a machine.

"The question in this case is 'how much of this is hype and how much is real?'

"But there's no doubt that cyber terrorism is something the government is taking
seriously and there will be people working on the development of superviruses,
both from the point of protection and attack."

Iran has denied claims made at the weekend by a former UN nuclear inspections
official that the Stuxnet supervirus is the reason for delays in its uranium
enrichment programme.

But the threat of cyber attacks has become a source of international concern in
recent years.

On April 8, 15% of all internet traffic was routed through China for 18 minutes
in a mysterious incident the Chinese authorities have denied any part in.

The Royal Navy's website was shut down on November 5, allegedly by a Romanian
hacker.

In October, the UK Government declared cyber warfare to be a "tier one" threat
to national security.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

Kyrgyz security services "prevent series of terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Bishkek, 26 November: Kyrgyz security services and law-enforcement agencies have
prevented a series of terrorist attacks in the country's several towns. They
have arrested several people on suspicion of involvement in plotting the
attacks.

"We can say now that the Kyrgyz security services and law-enforcement agencies
have prevented a series of terrorist attacks in several towns," a source in the
republic's security services told Interfax today.

It said that nine people had already been arrested on suspicion of involvement
in plotting the terrorist attacks. They were arrested in Bishkek and Osh.

The source pointed out that the detainees had begun giving evidence on the
masterminds behind the attempted terrorist attacks.

Earlier the source had told Interfax that "the Kyrgyz security services found
over 10 kilograms of TNT in the capital [Bishkek], which was possibly intended
to carry out terrorist attacks in different parts of the republic".

He said that the it was because of this case that the republic's security forces
were put on alert. He specified that the total weight of the explosive, which
has been found, was equivalent to almost 12 kilograms [of TNT].

"Today President Roza Otunbayeva was due to visit Osh, but it was called off
immediately," the source added.

In the meantime, relevant Kyrgyz departments have not commented on the
situation. A source in the Kyrgyz Defence Ministry has confirmed that all the
security forces were put on alert following an urgent session that was held
behind closed doors last Wednesday.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0852 gmt 26 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

Indian PM salutes "spirit" of Mumbai on second anniversary of terror attacks

LENGTH: 474 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "PM pays tribute to 26/11 martyrs"
published by Indian public broadcaster Doordarshan News website on 26 November

Joining the nation in remembering those killed in the Mumbai terror attacks,
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Friday [26 November] pledged to redouble
efforts to bring the perpetrators of the crime to justice.

"On this day of remembrance, we salute the courage, unity and the resolve of
ordinary Mumbaikars and the brave and selfless action of our men in uniform
during the attack," he said in a statement in New Delhi on the second
anniversary of the Mumbai attacks in which 166 people were killed.

Dr. Singh said, "It is this spirit and strength of character of the Indian
people that will defeat such forces that seek to threaten our social fabric and
way of life".

"We will never succumb to the designs of our enemies. We pledge to redouble our
efforts to bring the perpetrators of this crime against humanity to justice," he
said.

Noting that Mumbai was subjected to a brutal terrorist attack that claimed the
life of hundreds of innocent people, he said the nation joins the bereaved
families in remembering and mourning those who perished in this barbaric attack.

India asks Pakistan to dismantle terror machines

India asked Pakistan to dismantle the terror machine operating on its soil and
bring perpetrators of the Mumbai attacks to speedy justice as the country marked
the second anniversary of the 26/11 strikes.

"Once again I call upon Pakistan to dismantle the terror machine operating with
impunity in territories under its control and to bring all the perpetrators of
the Mumbai terror attacks to speedy justice," External Affairs Minister S M
Krishna said.

In his message on the 26/11 anniversary, Krishna said: "On the second
anniversary of the barbaric terrorist attack in Mumbai, the nation pays
respectful homage to its sons, daughters and foreign guests, whose innocent
lives were cruelly snuffed out."

Ten Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Toiba terrorists arrived by sea on the evening of
26 November 2008, in Mumbai and targeted different parts of the city, killing
166 people and wounding over 300 during 60 hours of carnage.

India has accused Pakistan of not doing enough to bring the plotters behind the
audacious attacks to justice.

"The day is a stark reminder, that no cause can ever justify terror, either by
state or non-state actors," said Krishna, who is in Colombo on a four-day
official visit.

He said India seeks peaceful, stable and cooperative relations with Pakistan.

"I travelled to Islamabad last July for talks and have also invited my
counterpart to visit New Delhi for further discussions," he said.

"India is committed to resolving all outstanding issues with Pakistan through
dialogue," the Minister added.

Source: Doordarshan news website, New Delhi, in English 26 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                              North Wales Edition

7/7 medics used M&S first aid kits;
LIFE-SAVERS BATTLED A LACK OF SUPPLIES AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: SAM MARSDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 452 words


MEDICS treating wounded 7/7 survivors ran out of supplies and had to use first
aid kits from a Marks & Spencer store and a hotel, the inquest into the outrage
heard yesterday.

Paul Dadge, the former firefighter famously photographed hugging victim Davinia
Turrell as she clutched a white burns mask to her face, said there was little
doctors and nurses could do without the right equipment.

Mr Dadge was a passenger on the train behind the one blown up by suicide bomber
Mohammed Sidique Khan at Edgware Road Tube station on July 7 2005, killing six
people.

He described coming across the shocked and injured survivors of the attack and
setting up a casualty station in the Marks & Spencer near the station.

Mr Dadge was pictured helping Ms Turrell across the road to the Hilton Metropole
Hotel after the store was evacuated because of a bomb scare sparked by an
abandoned laptop bag.

He recalled that doctors and nurses were brought to the hotel from nearby
hospitals, but said shortages of supplies meant their efforts were limited to
grading the severity of the victims' injuries, known as "triaging".

"The medical resources on the scene were limited to the two paramedics and the
small number of staff from the London helicopter emergency medical service
team," he said in a statement read to the inquests.

"We had run out of oxygen and dressings and had become reliant on first aid
supplies from Marks & Spencer and the Hilton Metropole Hotel.

"Plus it had become apparent that the police had become aware of the lack of
medical resources on the scene and had begun to blue-light medical staff from St
Mary's Hospital and other hospitals within the area to the scene.

"Nurses, consultants and even a National Health Service priest arrived at the
hotel, although I think it is worth mentioning at this point that it was great,
but without the medical supplies there was not much they could do other than
retriage the people who had initially been assessed by myself and others."

He added there was a "noticeable" delay in ambulances arriving, meaning a large
number of the walking wounded had to be taken to hospital in police riot vans.

The inquest also heard ambulance bosses refused a request for paramedics on a
training course to be sent to treat injured survivors.

Paul Swan, the officer in charge of the emergency medical response to the
suicide attack on a train at London's Edgware Road Tube station, asked for
paramedics on a training course in Fulham that day to be reassigned to treat the
wounded at Edgware Road, but they were not deployed.

Mr Swan told the hearing: "I think there came a point where we were managing the
incident with the resources we had."

welshnews@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

2nd anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 128 words


2nd anniversary of terrorist attacks on Mumbai which killed 174 and injured
nearly 300 when militants armed with grenades and assault rifles targeted six
sites across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and Oberoi Hotels, the main
CST train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the hotels were finally brought
to a conclusion on 29 Nov with 10 militants identified, but only one of them
captured alive. Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab is currently on trial in
India. At least 28 foreigners killed incl one Briton and nationals from the
U.S., Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and
Thailand.
 Memorial unveiled today in Mumbai and a candle-lit prayer service held

Event Start Date: 2010-11-26

Event End Date: 2010-11-26

Event URL:

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2010 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

India marks terror attack anniversary

BYLINE: mUMBAI

SECTION: WOR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 226 words


INDIA marked the second anniversary of the Mumbai terror attack with sombre
ceremonies and a renewed promise to seek justice for the 166 people killed in
the assault.

In 2008, 10 Pakistani militants targeted the rich at luxury hotels, killed
tourists at a popular cafe, attacked commuters in a train station and took over
a Jewish centre.

Officers flanked by special anti-terror vehicles marched through Mumbai
yesterday morning from the Oberoi Trident Hotel, one of the attack sites.

Students held a banner that read,  The Great Wall of Mumbai,  as an expression
of defiance toward the attack.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said:  We will never succumb to the designs of our
enemies. We pledge to redouble our efforts to bring the perpetrators of this
crime against humanity to justice.

India has refused to resume full-fledged peace talks with arch rival Pakistan
until its neighbour prosecutes those responsible for the attack.

The only gunman to survive the assault, Ajmal Kasab, has been sentenced to death
in India, but none of the seven alleged masterminds arrested in Pakistan have
been put on trial.

Once again I call upon Pakistan to dismantle the terror machine operating with
impunity in territories under its control and to bring all the perpetrators of
the Mumbai terror attack to speedy justice,  Indian external affairs minister SM
Krishna said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday

Georgia: Labour Party blames government for organizing "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report by private Georgian news agency Kavkas-Press

Tbilisi, 28 November: [Georgian] Labour Party leader Shalva Natelashvili has
accused the government of the blast that went off near the party office last
night. "The government is organizing terrorist attacks against opposition
parties and, in particular, the Labourites. Eyewitnesses were able to see that,"
Natelashvili said.

Nino Gordeziani, 58, fell victim to the explosion that went off on Javakhishvili
Street at 0140 [2240 gmt on 27 November]. Four people were injured, including a
child and a guard of the office, Zaza Kokiashvili, who was contused. The walls
and ceiling of the Labour Party office crumbled.

Eyewitnesses say a silver Mercedes car stop nearby just before the explosion.
They say it was probably from that Mercedes car that the explosive containing
TNT was left on the spot.

The incident is being investigated. The law enforcers have not made any comments
yet.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Georgian 0851gmt 28 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday

Algiers security heightened; two "terrorists" said planning 11 December attacks

LENGTH: 675 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 30
November

Security measures have been strengthened in Algiers in order to ward off any new
attempt by the armed terrorist groups to commit an attack.

The security agencies have launched a major operation looking for two terrorists
active in the capital city. They are suspected of making preparations for an
attack with the approach of the third anniversary of the double suicide bomber
attack that targeted the headquarters of the United Nations in Hydra and the
Constitutional Council in Ben Aknoun on 11 December 2007.

It was following a piece of reliable intelligence telling of the presence of two
terrorists in the basement of an apartment building located in the Bachdjarah 3
apartment complex that elements from the National People's Army [ANP], in
coordination with elements from the central division of Algiers's judicial
police, surrounded the apartment late in the afternoon the day before yesterday
[28 November] at about 1800 hours [1700 gmt].

If a source close to the operation is to be believed, a reliable news report
reached the security agencies about a terrorist presence in the neighbourhood.
The search made possible the discovery of a blockhouse set up in the basement of
a closed commercial premise located on the ground floor of an apartment located
on the sixth floor of building 58 opposite the headquarters of Bachdjarah's
Municipal People's Assembly [APC]. Two terrorists were allegedly expected by a
third party who was supposed to house them in that blockhouse but could not be
arrested.

The security agencies are pursuing their investigation to find the two
terrorists "who have been identified as being active terrorists," a security
source revealed to us.

The identifications of people and vehicles have been intensified in recent
months in the capital following news reports indicating that Abu Mus'ab Abd
al-Wadud's Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as
Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM] is trying to commit a
dramatic attack in the capital city.

Faced with this situation, security measures have already been put in place in
the capital and its environs to deal with new suicide bomber attacks all the
more since the GSPC has not managed to redeploy itself in the wake of the heavy
losses sustained in its ranks. Several terrorist leaders have beenkilled, the
latest of whom was the ex-"amir" of zone 2 and the chief of the GSPC's military
commission, the man named Rachid Abdelmoumen, alias Hodeifa Abou Younes Assimi.

Beyond the reinforcement of policemen and security agents in plainclothes who
are criss-crossing the capital city's neighbourhoods, surveillance cameras have
started to be installed on the city's main arteries and in front of the main
public buildings.

Among the security measures that have been taken the giving to the police, at
each roadblock, of equipment to detect weapons or explosives can also be cited.
It has also been learned that vehicles equipped with explosives detectors are
also criss-crossing the capital to spot suspicious vehicles.

It would be appropriate to remind readers that since the start of the year the
security agencies have succeeded in breaking up more than five networks
providing support to the terrorists as well as the arrest of five terrorists to
the east of Algiers.

Maj-Gen Hamel, the director general for national security, had instructed his
elements to beef up the intelligence work in the fight against terrorism, which
"remains a priority." He declared that Algiers was safe from terrorist attacks.
In his first media appearance, he said he thought that the potential for a new
attack by the armed groups in the capital remained "very low."

He also defended the increase in the number of roadblocks and check points by
the security agencies in and around Algiers. "These roadblocks have been
studied. Some are part of the mechanism for fighting terrorism and cannot be
reduced," he had said.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 30 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Security beefed up in Pakistan's Karachi over threats of terror attacks

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report by Khurshid Abbasi headlined "Threats of attack on eight
buildings in Karachi including Sindh Assembly building" published by Pakistani
newspaper Jang on 1 December

Karachi -- Rangers and police have been put on high alert following the reported
disclosure of [possible] terrorist attacks on eight sensitive and important
government buildings and offices in Karachi. Directions have been issued to
further tighten the security arrangements.

According to sources, it has been disclosed through letter number AOH/DIG
Police, terrorists may target top government and private buildings in Karachi
including Pakistan Refinery Limited, US Consulate, Marriot Hotel, Sindh
Assembly, CID [Crimes Investigation Department] Sindh, Saddar police station,
Karachi Port Trust, and certain other intelligence agencies' offices.

Under the letter, filed as 23914, additional IG [Inspector General] police CID,
additional IG police Special Branch, CCPO [Capital City Police Officer] Karachi,
Regional Police Officer [RPO] Hyderabad and Sukkur, have been directed to make
fool-proof security arrangements in order to forestall terror attacks at these
important places.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi in Urdu, 1 Dec 10, pp 8, 6

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             East Grinstead Courier

                                December 2, 2010

Preparing for terror attacks

BYLINE: Gemma Angell

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words


Surrey Police are helping hotels guard against the threat of terrorism.

A workshop is being held at the Lingfield Park Marriott Hotel, on Racecourse
Road, to teach managers how to prepare for and prevent a terrorist attack.

Bob Stephens, head of Surrey Police's Counter Terrorism Security Office, said:
"The UK is recognised to be a target for terrorists.

"The question is not if but where and when, and the managers of businesses like
hotels, where many people gather, must be prepared."

Surrey's close proximity to London means it is seen as being at particular risk
of an attack, especially as the national threat of terrorism remains at
"severe".

Hotels are seen as an attractive and soft target for terrorists, which is why
the course is being held.

Mr Stephens added: "Everyone in Surrey, whether a resident, visitor or employee,
can help us maintain the freedoms which we value, by being vigilant.

"Recognise suspicious behaviour and if anything appears unusual or  odd, report
it. Look for people behaving in a manner which is out of place for the time or
location."

At the Marriott Hotel workshop a simulated attack will be carried out to see how
those who attend the workshop cope.

It is one of a number of workshops, going under the name Project Argus and
organised with the help of the National Counter Terrorism Security Office, which
are being held across the county.

Mr Stephens added: "Project Argus is an excellent opportunity to judge how well
prepared your business is, increase your knowledge of terrorist issues, compare
notes with other local hotels, or just a chance for you and selected staff to
experience a well-run security exercise."

The Marriott Hotel workshop takes place on Thursday, December 16 from 10am.

For more information call 01342 830930.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 102


                     Copyright 2010 East Grinstead Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

Senior Iran cleric says "Zionist regime, US, UK behind recent terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 3 December: Substitute Friday prayers leader of Tehran Ayatollah Ahmad
Khatami said here on Friday [3 December] that the Zionist regime of Israel, the
US and the UK are the number one guilty in recent terrorist incident in Tehran.

Ayatollah Khatami, delivering his Friday prayers sermon to large groups of
Friday prayers worshippers, said the terrorist move is in fact a revenge on a
nation which has conquered peaks of progress one after another despite 31 years
of sanctions.

[University lecturer and nuclear scientist, Majid Shahriari, was assassinated
and another lecturer was injured in two separate attacks in Tehran on 29
November]

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0940 gmt 3 Dec
10

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US facing attack from home-grown terrorists

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 563 words


THE sheer volume of terrorist plots against the United States means that the
country will become unable to prevent a fatal attack by a new breed of
extremists radicalised in America's towns and cities, the country's leading
counterterrorism official has warned.

In unusually candid remarks, Michael Leiter, the director of the National
Counterterrorism Centre, said that the nation's defences probably would be
breached by a home-grown radical, after a yearlong period containing several
failed or thwarted attacks that had seen the most intense terrorist activity
since September 11, 2001.

"Although we aim for perfection, perfection will not be achieved. Just like any
other endeavour, we will not stop all the attacks," he said.

"If there is an attack, it may well be tragic. Innocent lives will be lost. But
we still have to be honest, and we have to be honest that some things will get
through.

"To say that we will not successfully defend against all attacks is certainly
not to say that we are not trying to stop all attacks. We are."

The FBI last week arrested Mohamed Osman Mohamud, a 19-year-old Somali-born
American, for plotting to detonate a bomb as thousands of people attended the
lighting of the Christmas tree in the centre of Portland, Oregon.

Speaking at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, Mr
Leiter, who advises the US government on the terrorist threat, said: "In this
era of a more complicated threat, a more diverse threat and lower-scale attacks
to include individuals who have been radicalised here in the homeland, stopping
all the attacks has become that much harder."

The threat has risen in part because of the increased involvement of the
Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, and Anwar al-Awlaki, an
Americanborn radical cleric.

Known as AQAP, it has pursued smaller attacks perpetrated by lone operators
which have complicated the challenges facing the US security services still
battling the threat of another attack on the scale of September 11.

AQAP and Al-Awlaki, now living in Yemen, have been linked to Major Nidal Hasan,
an army psychiatrist accused of killing 13 people during a shooting spree at
Fort Hood, Texas, in November, 2009, and to Umar Farouk Abdul-Mutallab, the
Nigerian student sus-pected of the failed attempt to blow up a flight headed for
Detroit last Christmas.

Conceding that the anti-terrorist services had made errors under President
Barack Obama, particularly in the Christmas plot, Mr Leiter asserted that hard
work played a part in bringing about what critics have called lucky outcomes. He
said neither Republicans nor Democrats should claim they had all the answers in
protecting the country.

Offering some positive news, he said that the threat of a catastrophic attack on
the US planned by the traditional al-Qaeda leadership had diminished, along with
the likelihood of a chemical, biological or radiological attack.

In reacting to the next attack America should avoid talk of a clash of
civilisations between the West and Islam that merely fed al-Qaeda's propaganda,
and should avoid portraying terrorists as all-powerful.

"We should not assume that the terrorists are 10 feet tall. The fact that they
get through at times in a relatively free and open society does not mean that
they are all-powerful," he said.

"We have to be taller than them. We have to be more resilient than them."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SHERIDAN QUIZZES COP OVER 'TERRORIST' GAIL;
tommy on attack over jibes

BYLINE: GRANT MCCABE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 317 words


SEX scandal politician Tommy Sheridan yesterday claimed cops accused his wife
Gail of "acting like a terrorist".

The former MSP also alleged the police's actions when they interviewed her over
perjury charges could have been linked to her religious faith.

Sheridan's claims came as he was formally acquitted of trying to persuade a
witness to commit perjury.

The Crown also dropped several allegations against his wife.

Swingers Former SSP leader Sheridan is conducting his own defence at his trial
for perjury at the High Court in Glasgow.

He and his wife, both 46, deny lying under oath during his successful defamation
action against the News Of The World in 2006.

The action followed the paper's claims that Sheridan was an adulterer who
visited swingers' clubs.

He won £200,000 in damages after the newspaper printed allegations about his
private life.

Yesterday, the jury was told that Gail was likened to a terrorist after a raid
on the couple's home in Glasgow. One officer, Detective Sergeant Stuart
Harkness, was quizzed by Sheridan over the interviews he conducted with Gail.

The witness was asked: "Did you seek to harass and intimidate my wife?" Harkness
replied: "Not at all." Sheridan asked: "Why did you suggest that she was then
acting like a terrorist?" DS Harkness, who had previously been involved in a
terrorism inquiry, said: "She was failing to engage at all. She did not look at
us.

"Focusing on something else is a technique used by people in that regard."

Sheridan said: "So when a suspect takes up their right to remain silent, you
think it is all right to suggest they are acting like a terrorist?" The
detective said: "It is one thing to remain silent, it is another not to engage."

Sheridan asked: "Was it because she was a practising Catholic and you accused
her of acting like a Provisional IRA terrorist?" DS Harkness replied: "Not at
all." The case continues.

scotnews@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON TRIAL: Gail and Tommy Sheridan both deny allegations of perjury

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

OFF THE STREETS;
150 PSNI OFFICERS MOVED TO GUARD STATIONS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: DAVID YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 525 words


A TOTAL of 150 front-line officers will be redeployed to guard police stations
against dissident republican attacks.

They will fill posts left by departing fulltime reservists.

Chief Constable Matt Baggott said no neighbourhood policemen or women would be
moved to guard stations and personnel but conceded officers in response units
would be repositioned.

The move comes after the Policing Board rejected the Chief Constable's proposal
earlier this year to employ private security firms to perform functions carried
out by the Full Time Reserve.

The Reserve is being disbanded in line with policing reforms next March.

Some members reacted angrily with calls for officers on backroom duties to act
as guards instead.

The police are involved in an ongoing drive to move deskbound officers on to the
streets and in the past year almost 600 went back on the beat full-time.

Mr Baggott said: "At the end of March we will have a number of people leaving us
on severance and some of those are doing guarding functions.

"It's clearly right I have to make sure our police stations and our people are
protected. So some of those police officers we've got out there will move back
into those duties.

"Let me be clear about this - we are carrying out reform relentlessly, there are
more police officers I want to move from administ r a t i v e jobs back on to
the street."

He hoped that ongoing negotiations over the PSNI budget would result in his
being able to move more officers onto the front line.

The DUP's Jimmy Spratt, who supported the chief's proposal on security firms,
said the board only had itself to blame for the development.

He added: "I am astounded these officers are being taken off front-line duties.
It's unthinkable that any officers would be removed from response [duties] but
that seems to be what the Chief Constable is indicating.

"The Chief Constable came to the board a number of months ago with a very good
suggestion in relation to armed g u a r d s which would have been much cheaper,
much more cost-effective in every way - the board failed to support that.

"I have to say shame on the board. Now we have a problem and we are taking a
step back as a result and we're losing front-line police officers and the public
will not thank anybody in relation to front-line police officers going off."

But Sinn Fein's Alex Maskey, who opposed hiring security guards, said officers
working on desk jobs could fill the posts without having to cut the front-line
service.

He added: "I was surprised to hear the Chief Constable indicate he could be
reducing the number of officers on the front line.

"Certainly I would not be happy. A commitment was made by this Chief Constable
just months ago that he would be continually working to take officers away from
deskbound duties to put them on the front line working with the community.

"We do see evidence of some growing confidence within some communities and that
primarily is because there are more police officers working within communities
responding more quickly to complaints.

"It obviously flies in the face of trying to build that confidence for the
police service that you would then take officers away."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEDIC'S TALIBAN AMBUSH TERROR;
ATTACK 'WAS LIKE SCENE FROM THE MATRIX' 'Ambush like scenes from film'

BYLINE: LIZ PERKINS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 501 words


A HIGH-RANKING officer has told of the terrifying moment he and his medical team
were ambushed by the Taliban as they tried to rescue casualties.

Lieutenant Colonel Rhys Thomas compared the harrowing situation as "like scenes
from the Matrix".

"We knew we were going to get into harm's way in Nad-e-Ali after being tasked to
retrieve casualties and resupply the patrol base," he said.

"When we left we had 15 seriously injured casualties on board and two
fatalities.

"It was like something from the Matrix when we were coming under fire.

"Afterwards we found out there was a bullet in the gear box of the Chinook."

Lieutenant Colonel Thomas, who is dad to one-year-old Llew, said his wife Sarah,
aged 35, who is a GP in the Army, had some concerns about his job.

He said: "My wife is proud of the work that I do but understandably is anxious
due to the danger involved."

The 39-year-old, from Llandeilo, who is a consultant anaesthetist at Camp
Bastion's field hospital, also works as part of the medical emergency response
team (Mert) - which is like an airborne critical care department.

The attack happened while he and a team of paramedics and a nurse were in flight
on a Chinook above Nad-e-Ali, in Afghanistan.

Lieutenant Colonel Thomas said the medical team were "remarkably unscathed"
following the incident.

"I don't normally smoke but I had a couple of cigarettes that day," he added.

He said the attack happened when Nad-e-Ali was "unchartered territory" as
British troops had only recently explored the area.

He said despite being in the Army for 12 years, after going to Sandhurst, he
felt a "huge" sense of pride and responsibility leading the team.

"You have so many pressures on you," he added.

"Medically it's the most challenging job in the world - we have never been asked
to do so much in so . little time, which is difficult enough without having
people trying to kill you when are doing this work. "It helps to be professional
- you think about it only when you get home." It is the fourth time the
lieutenant colonel has been out to Afghanistan and the second time this year.
The consultant anaesthetist, who is usually based with 16 Air Assault Brigade
said much had changed in trauma resuscitation since he arrived in Afghanistan.
"We didn't go to Bastion until 2006 - we were based just to the north of Kabul
in Bagram," he said. Best "The field hospital was just a tent - the whole
hospital had 60 people working there but it's got around 400 staff now. "It was
nothing like it is now - we probably saw five casualties a day but there were a
lot less forces in the country then. "British military are leading the world in
how we resuscitate and treat our casualties - this could only have been brought
about by our experiences learned in Afghanistan." Lieutenant Colonel Thomas
described the facility at Camp Bastion as "the best and busiest trauma hospital
in the world" and said "it was a great honour to be involved in providing the
care to our brave troops." ? elizabeth.perkins@swwmedia.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESCUE MISSION Lieutenant Colonel Rhys Thomas, 39, of Llandeilo.
Picture: Sergeant Rupert Frere

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2010 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 4, 2010 Saturday

Crime probe body says five held for role in Pakistan's Lahore terror attacks

LENGTH: 450 words


Text of report headlined "Five held for attacks on ISI HQ" published by
Pakistani newspaper The News website on 4 December

Lahore: The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) Lahore on Friday [4 December]
claimed to have arrested five terrorists involved in a terror attack on the
provincial headquarters of Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) and Police Rescue
15 building in 2009.

Addressing a press conference at Police Lines Qila Gujjar Singh, Capital City
Police Officer Lahore Haji Muhammad Aslam Tarin claimed that the terrorists,
belonging to India and Afghanistan, were involved in recent terror activities
carried out at different important places in various cities of Pakistan.

He said that a CIA team, headed by Deputy Superintendent of CIA's Anti-Terrorist
Staff Tariq Ilyas Kiani, had received a tip-off from a resident of Ravi Park,
Shahdara, about the hideout of some terrorists. He said the police team
immediately raided the place and arrested five terror suspects, including
Sarfraz Ahmed, Shabbir Ahmed alias Hafiz Sahib, Umer Hayat alias Qari Ismail,
Hafiz Mahmood alias Abu Qasim and Abid Akram alias Malik Tufaan. Police also
recovered four explosive jackets, eight mortar bombs, 13 fused mortar bombs, one
hand grenade, 32 hand grenade pins, one pistol, one SMG rifle, one roll of
detonator card, 13 fake number plates and dozens of bullets from the possession
of the suspects.

The CCPO said that during preliminary interrogation, CIA officials came to know
that the terror suspects belonged to Al-Tauheed Wal-Jihad Group of
Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). The group was earlier led by Doctor Umer Kundi,
he said, adding that the accused were well-trained and they had completed their
training at Data Khail, Waziristan.

Mr Tarin said the terrorists had confessed to carrying out terrorist attack on
15/ISI office, adding that they had also confessed to their involvement in
different heinous crimes, including kidnapping for ransom, robbery, dacoity,
dacoity-cum-murder, vehicle lifting and street crime.

While giving details of 15/ISI attack, the CCPO said that according to the
arrested terrorists, the plan was hatched by Umer Kundi who had further ordered
Abid Akram alias Malik Tufaan to get the details of 15/ISI office. He said Abid
Akram also collected funds for carrying out the attack and on May 29, 2009, he
handed over the van used in attack to Yahya, Ali and Idrees, who reached the
target from the Fatima Jinnah Road. Three other terrorists, namely Imtiaz,
Sarfraz and Shabir, who reached the place on their own, provided cover to the
van by indiscriminate firing and later escaped along with Abid Akram from the
scene.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 04 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           December 4, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Shopkeeper in racial attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 211 words


POLICE were yesterday investigating a brutal racial attack on a shopkeeper.

The 28-year-old victim suffered a sickening tirade of abuse from two loudmouthed
neds.

When the Asian shopkeeper bravely faced up to the yobs outside his business, he
was attacked.

It is understood he was punched and kicked repeatedly about the head and body.

The nasty incident took place outside the new Poundbasket store in High Street,
Johnstone, shortly before 6pm on Friday, November 26.

The street was busy with traffic and shoppers when shouting erupted.

One shopper said she heard a rumpus and looked over towards the store, where a
couple of yobs were shouting and swearing at another man.

She said: "It was dark and I think I heard someone screaming disgusting words.
The shouts seemed to be racial and were directed at an Asian man.

"The Asian guy had another young man with him when the attack began.

"It was the older Asian who was attacked by two men, who were punching and
kicking him.

"It looked like a nasty incident to me." Police have confirmed they are treating
the incident as a "racial breach".

The victim did not have to go to hospital for treatment but suffered bruising.

Police said a man in his late teens was detained in connection with the
incident.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

SEXY NADIA: MY TERROR IN CAR ATTACK

BYLINE: SAMUEL HAMILTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 216 words


SEXY Nadia Forde was left shaking after she was attacked in her car.

The 21-year-old model told how yobs who were pelting other vehicles with
snowballs suddenly turned on her.

Nadia said: "I was driving through a rough area in town and the kids were
throwing snowballs at my car.

"They were trying to open the doors of the car in front of me to pelt the poor
driver.

"Suddenly, they were holding on to my bumper and trying to skate along with me.

"A young fella was hanging off the back. I thought he was going to kill himself.

"I was like, 'What are they doing? They're like animals. What were they doing?'
It was really horrendous for me. It was pretty scary."

The model babe is more used to being a target for unlucky fellas trying to pry
her away from long-term boyfriend Mark Noble.

And despite being in love with the radio presenter, the Assets girl insisted she
doesn't plan to tie the knot with him any time soon.

Nadia, from Clontarf, Co Dublin, revealed her parents' divorce when she was a
young girl had hurt her.

She said: "I don't think I will ever get married. I don't think marriages last.
I think that I would be happier not getting married to be honest.

"I'd rather have kids and have a relationship outside of marriage. I don't think
there's anything wrong with that, a lot of people do that."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Top gear... yobs turned on model

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 6, 2010 Monday

Belgian daily reveals more on plans on terror suspect's plans for attack

LENGTH: 764 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 6 December

[Report by Mark Eeckhaut: "Terrorists Targetted Jews, NATO or Sports Event"]

Brussels/Antwerp - Hassan H. from Antwerp is accused of plotting a terrorist
attack in Belgium from his computer. But the US Secret Service were tapping in.

Last Thursday [December 2] the Chechen Aslamblek L. (32) was arrested at Vienna
(Austria) airport. The Chechen, who many years ago lost both arms in the war
with the Russians, was returning with his wife and two children to their home in
Austria after a pilgrimage to Mecca.

L.'s arrest was the 13th to be made in connection with the Belgian judicial
inquiry into a network that was seeking to smuggle Muslim fighters to Chechnya
to combat the Russians. Aslamblek L. is believed to be a leading member of the
group, together with Isa A., a Chechen arrested in Antwerp 10 days ago.

The Federal Prosecutor's Office and Antwerp anti-terrorism investigators rounded
up most members of the group 10 days ago when they raided premises in Antwerp,
the Netherlands, and Germany.

Judicial sources say that the 13 arrests, eight of them in Belgium, result from
an inquiry originally made into one man: Hassan H., a young Moroccan Belgian
from Antwerp.

At the end of last year the US Secret Service intercepted the chat conversations
that Hassan H. conducted in private chat boxes on the extremist website Ansar Al
Mujahideen.

H. chatted with other extremists from Morocco and Saudi Arabia about his plan to
carry out an attack in Belgium. According to the Americans Hassan H. was
serious. The Saudi chatter even said he was prepared to finance the attack. "The
target was not yet decided., but H. had a couple of ideas for possible targets,"
judicial sources told De Standaard.

Among other things, Hassan H. said: "There are a number of places in Belgium
where Jews gather. They would be good places for an attack." Other potential
targets according to Hassan H. were "a train with NATO troops" or "an arbitrary
major sports event."

The US Secret Service passed on the information to colleagues in the countries
in question. In Saudi Arabia, Morocco, and Spain the "chatters," which included
the financier, were picked up on the street and held in custody.

The Belgian investigators were the only ones not to act immediately, first of
all because they did not see in the chat messages enough proof that Hassan H.
was genuinely intent on carrying out an attack. The anti-terrorism investigators
kept a close watch on the terrorist circles of Hassan H. in Antwerp and
monitored his daily comings and goings very closely, by telephone tapping among
other means.

Hassan H. is married with a young daughter and comes from a devout Moroccan
family living in Antwerp.

He and his two brothers, Driss and Asmani, seemed to have close contacts with
extremist Muslims, including some who attended the Bangladeshi mosque on the
Turnhoutsebaan in Borgerhout.

According to our information, the Belgian detectives were unable to find
concrete proof that Hassan H. continued with his plans to carry out an attack
after the arrest of his Internet colleagues.

But they did ascertain that along with a number of extremist Antwerp young
people, including three militants from the extremist group Sharia4Belgium, he
made concrete plans to go and fight in Chechnya.

The Antwerp Chechen Isa A. and the Austrian Aslambek L. planned their routes and
established contacts in Chechnya.

The plan was for the young Antwerp Muslims to go and fight for the rebel
movement Caucasian Emirate set up by rebel leader Doku Umarov.

The group wants to make the northern Caucasus, including Chechnya, an Islamic
republic in which Islamic law is applied and from where unbelievers would be
banned.

The fact that the organization was serious is confirmed by the fact the three
militants arrested in the Netherlands had already been intercepted a few weeks
ago in Turkey, reportedly on their way to Chechnya.

Tomorrow the eight will appear before the Council Chambers in Belgium. This must
decide whether or not they should be remanded in custody on suspicion of
membership of a terrorist organization.

Hassan H. and his two brothers Driss and Asmani are among the eight. A fourth
brother is in jail in Morocco in connection with another terrorism case.

Mohammed H., yet another brother, speaks of a serious misunderstanding. He told
De Standaard 10 days ago that "I know for certain that my brothers have nothing
to do with terrorist attacks. I know them don't I?"

Source: De Standaard website, Groot-Bijgaarden, in Dutch 6 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hundreds of 'targets for terror attacks' exposed;
SECURITY

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 453 words


THE United States has identified hundreds of sites around the world that it
fears could be targeted in terrorist attacks.

The list, released by WikiLeaks, includes a dozen sites in Britain, including
two telecommunications centres, several undersea communications cables, a
military manufacturing plant and a vaccine production centre.

A February 2009 State Department cable asked embassies around the world to
update a 2008 list of vital interests. Unlike most of the documents made
available by WikiLeaks so far, it was marked "secret".

Though most of the information was in the public domain, its release is likely
to lead to accusations that WikiLeaks did not care if it aided terrorists.

However, Kristinn Hrafnsson, a spokesman for the website, denied that the
information would be useful to radical groups. "While this cable details the
strategic importance of assets across the world, it does not give any
information as to their exact locations, security measures, vulnerabilities or
any similar factors - though it does reveal the US asked its diplomats to report
back on these matters," he said.

The release of the cable, part of a trove of 250,000 that the whistle-blowing
website says it has on file, is likely to infuriate Washington and intensify
apparent US efforts to stop the distribution of the leaked diplomatic cables.

Among the British sites mentioned is a facility manufacturing the vaccine for
foot and mouth disease run by BAE Systems in Lancashire, and the landing station
for the transatlantic Apollo undersea cable at Bude in Cornwall.

Sites in the Middle East included the shipping lanes of Djibouti, an import
terminal in Egypt, the Suez Canal and the oil terminal in Basra.

The list, the Critical Foreign Dependencies Initiative, divides the world into
six regions. It makes clear how the US depends on a range of substances from
smallpox vaccines in Denmark to bauxite in Guinea and liquefied natural gas in
the Middle East. It also includes the email and direct telephone numbers of two
State Department officials.

It makes clear that US military facilities and US government property are not to
be included in the survey, and that foreign governments should not be consulted.

It said: "Posts do not need to report government facilities overseas managed by
[the State Department] or war fighting facilities managed by other departments
or agencies."

WikiLeaks has been offering its archives for download through peer-to-peer
sharing, which allows any user around the world to post them or share them with
other users.

The files include previous WikiLeaks releases, such as information on US
military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the more than 800 US
diplomatic cables released so far.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

REAL LIFE JAWS;
TERROR AS TOURIST IS KILLED IN THIRD ATTACK

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 634 words


A REAL-LIFE Jaws scare swept one of the world's most popular beach resorts
yesterday after a tourist was killed by a shark.

Trippers, including hundreds of Brits, were warned to stay out of the water
following the horrific attack at Sharm el Sheik in Egypt.

Panic spread as the mutilated body of a 70-year-old German woman was washed up
at the Red Sea hot-spot.

Her right arm was torn off and her thigh savaged while she was snorkeling.
Doctors say she died from a "catastrophic" loss of blood.

The tragedy came just days after four divers were badly injured in a spate of
similar attacks.

Rolf Schmid, manager of the Sinai Diver's Centre, said: "It is very unusual to
have so many incidents in such a short time."

"The latest attack happened in a shallow area called Middle Garden north of
Naama Bay, but no sharks have been reported anywhere around here for years."

Local authorities imposed a 48-hour ban on swimming last week after the divers -
three Russians and a Ukrainian - were injured by what is believed to be an
oceanic whitetip.

But just like in the Jaws movie, the death came soon after the beaches were
declared safe.

The shark, or sharks, bit off one diver's hand and caused severe leg and back
injuries to the others.

They were still recovering in hospital at Cairo last night.

The Egyptian Environment Ministry claimed two sharks suspected of attacking the
divers had been caught.

But marine experts insisted they were the wrong ones.

The Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation Association said photos
of the dead sharks did not match pictures of a predator taken before one of the
attacks.

A spokesman said: "They are clearly not the same fish."

He added that shark attacks were "extremely rare" and warned against randomly
catching and killing large oceanic sharks in the area.

The group said the recent attacks were probably carried out by a single rogue
shark which is still at large.

Some believe the killer has been drawn to the area after cattle and sheep being
brought in for last month's Islamic feast of Eid al-Adha, died at sea and were
thrown overboard.

The last recorded death from a shark in Egypt was in June 2009, when a French
woman was attacked while diving off the southern Red Sea coast.

In 2004, a shark attacked and killed a swimmer near Sharm el Sheikh. Now local
diving club members are helping to patrol beaches as security measures are
stepped up.

The scare is a major blow to tourism in the area, which attracts millions of
visitors from all over the world.

Beach holidays contribute around a third of Egypt's total income from tourism -
currently running at about EUR15billion a year.

Environmentalists claim the recent attacks are probably the result of the Red
Sea's declining ecosystem.

Hesham Gabar, head of the Egypt's Chamber of Diving and Water Sports. said the
number of sharks in the region has been steadily increasing because of
over-fishing.

He said they were being forced to feed closer to the shore.

9,000

Number of British people in Sharm el Sheikh every day. The local population is
only 35,000.

Horror just like the film

THE shark attacks at Sharm el Sheikh chillingly echo Steven Spielberg's classic
movie Jaws.

Just like in the 1975 film, set on Amity island and starring Roy Scheider as
police chief Martin Brody, the beaches were closed to swimmers after the initial
strike - then quickly re-opened by local officials who insisted they were safe.

And, like the movie, they believed the scare was over when local fishermen went
on a hunting spree and killed the shark they believed was responsible.

In the film marine biologist Matt Hooper - played by Richard Dreyfuss - says it
is the wrong species and the real killer is still on the loose.

In Sharm el Sheik yesterday, many also believe they've got the wrong one - and
are praying there won't be a sequel.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEALED OFF Jetty at the resort is closed SAVAGE Shark caught by locals
FEARSOME Shark caught by local fishermen, but some believe it is not the right
one

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday

Terrorist plans to attack foreigners in Sumatra "foiled" - Indonesian official

LENGTH: 426 words


Text of report in English by Malaysian newspaper The Star website on 7 December

[Report by Amy Chew From the "Nation" Page: "Assassination Plan Foiled"]

PETALING JAYA: Terrorist plans to attack foreigners in Sumatra, including
assassinating American executives of a giant oil company, have been foiled with
the arrest of a suspected Indonesian militant in Malaysia.

Fadli Sadama, 27, was nabbed on Oct 13 while travelling in a bus to Johor. He
was deported back to Jakarta last Saturday under heavy guard.

Sadama had allegedly planned to assassinate oil executives working for PT
Chevron Pacific Oil company in Pekanbaru, capital of the oil-rich province of
Riau.

"He (Sadama) planned to kill American executives of Caltex (now renamed Chevron)
by shooting them," Petrus Golose, director of the Indonesian National
Anti-Terror Agency (BNPT), told The Star in a telephone interview from Jakarta.

He said Sadama also planned to shoot foreign tourists travelling in small boats
to the active volcano Anak Krakatau or Child of Krakatau.

(Anak Krakatau was formed on the site of the historic 1883 blast of Krakatau
volcano and is located in the Sunda Straits between Sumatra and West Java.)

Golose said Sadama was a member of the Indonesian Mujahidin Group (KMI) and was
recruited by convicted Indonesian terrorist Toni Togar, who is serving a 20-year
jail sentence for his role in the J.W. Marriot bomb blast in 2003.

KMI was set up and headed by Togar while he was behind bars at the Pematang
Siantar penintentiary in North Sumatra.

Sadama, a loyal supporter of Togar, was planning to free him from the
penitentiary.

"He plotted to kidnap the chief prison warden of Pematang Siantar to be used as
a barter to free Togar," said Golose.

"If Sadama and his group succeeded in freeing Togar, they planned to go to
southern Thailand to train with the separatist Pattani United Liberation
Organization," he said.

Togar has since been moved to the maximum security prison island of Nusa
Kembangan in Central Java.

Police said Sadama had been the field operator of KMI since 2008 and believed to
have "a few people" in Malaysia and Thailand who provided safe houses for him
when he escaped a police dragnet after allegedly robbing CIMB Niaga Bank in
Medan on Aug 18.

"He flew on Wings Air to Malaysia from Medan on Sept 18, a month after the bank
robbery," said Golose.

He said the Indonesian police was grateful to the Malaysian police for their
help and cooperation in arresting Sadama, which helped prevent the terror
attacks.

Source: The Star website, Kuala Lumpur, in English 7 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday

President says Georgia averted "very serious terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 243 words


Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili has said Georgia averted "very serious
terrorist attacks" by arresting six persons in connection with several
explosions across Georgia in September-November 2010.

On 7 December the Georgian Interior Ministry said the six had been operating
from breakaway Abkhazia and taking orders from a Russian military officer based
in Abkhazia.

"Georgian police have arrested a group of persons suspected of perpetrating a
very dangerous crime. They are accused of perpetrating several very dangerous
actions, specifically: explosions on Georgia's railway, in the vicinity of the
US embassy and also, a short time ago, near the office of a political party that
killed a person," Saakashvili said, speaking to TV cameras on the tarmac of the
Batumi airport in remarks broadcast by Rustavi-2 TV on 7 December.

"All evidence our law-enforcers have indicates that these persons were acting
from the occupied territory [Abkhazia]. As a result of their arrest, and judging
from the materials that were seized and the current preliminary versions and
speculation - though of course all of this must be proved in court - we have
thwarted some very serious terrorist attacks that had been prepared and for
which they had received instructions and explosive materials. I want to thank
our agencies, our police, for their efficient reaction. I want to call on them
to work even harder."

Source: Rustavi-2 TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1100gmt 07 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday

Georgia arrests six for staging "terrorist attacks" allegedly planned by Russia

LENGTH: 294 words


Deputy Interior Minister Eka Zghuladze has said that the ministry has arrested
six people in connection with "terrorist attacks" staged in Georgia between
September and November 2010, the private Georgian Imedi TV reported on 7
December. Zghuladze also alleged that a Russian officer based in Abkhazia may
have planned the blasts.

"On behalf of the ministry I would like to inform you that the terrorist attacks
staged between September and November have been solved. Specifically, [the
blasts] that occurred on 22 September near the US Embassy in Georgia, on 21
October at the Tbilisi railway station, on 2 October at the Chaladidi railway
bridge in Khobi District, on 28 November on Noneshvili street in the Mukhiani
First Micro District [in Tbilisi] and a terrorist attack staged on the same day
near the central office of the [opposition] Labour Party, which unfortunately
killed Ms Nino Gordezia. On 4 December, the Georgian Interior Ministry detained
Gogita Arkania, who is suspected of physically perpetrating the blast, and five
accomplices," Georgian Deputy Interior Minister Eka Zghuladze said at a special
news conference carried live by the channel.

She went on to quote Gogita Arkania, a resident of breakaway Abkhazia's Gali
District, as saying that he was tasked to perpetrate the aforementioned
assignments by an "officer of the Russian armed forces" stationed in Abkhazia
who supplied him with explosive devices and money.

Zghuladze also alleged that it was established that, before and after every
blast, the Russian officer was briefed about the preparation and conduct of the
blasts by phone and that the phone number used by the Russian officer was
registered to the Russian Defence Ministry.

Source: Imedi TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 0900 gmt 7 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday

Terrorist attacks in Russia's North Caucasus double in 2010 - official

LENGTH: 264 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Vladikavkaz, 8 December: Since the beginning of this year, the number of
terrorist attacks in the North Caucasus Federal District [NCFD] has increased by
100 per cent, [Deputy Prosecutor-General] Ivan Sydoruk said at an interagency
meeting of the NCFD law-enforcement agencies in Vladikavkaz on Wednesday [8
December].

"The number of terrorist attacks has increased by 100 per cent, this is the
reality today, and today we are gathered here to work out additional measures to
address the existing problems in this sphere," Sydoruk said.

He also noted that so far in 2010 over 30 counter-terrorism operations were
carried out in which more than 300 militants were neutralized. "In the 10
months, more than 3,000 crimes related to illegal circulation of arms have been
registered in the region. The number of attacks on employees of law-enforcement
agencies and military personnel has reached 529 in the current year, as a result
of which 218 people were killed and 536 people received wounds of varying
severity," Sydoruk said.

"In the same period, 1,665 firearms, 91,846 rounds of ammunition, more than
1,200 kg of explosives and more than 110 explosive devices have been seized,"
Sydoruk said.

[Passage omitted: Sydoruk said prevention measures remain ineffective.]

According to him, arms and ammunition are being supplied to Russia from Georgia
and Azerbaijan.

[Passage omitted: Sydoruk said there were some violations in the work of
law-enforcement agencies.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0949 gmt 8 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday

Jerusalem neighbourhood Jews say Palestinians attempted "major terror attack"

LENGTH: 479 words


Text of report in English by Israeli settlers' Arutz 7 Radio website on 7
December

[Report by El'ad Benari: "Was Gas Attack Averted in French Hill?"]

Several days ago, residents of Jerusalem's French Hill neighbourhood felt a
strong odour of gas throughout the neighbourhood. Upon inspection they
discovered that Arab residents of the nearby Isawiya neighbourhood cut their gas
pipes, which caused the strong smell. The residents of French Hill are now
convinced that the Arabs planned a major terror attack which was averted only by
a miracle.

On Monday, Arutz Sheva's daily journal spoke with French Hill resident Shosh
Shochat, who represents the neighbourhood during meetings with the authorities.
According to Shochat, "We sat in our house on Motzei Shabbat when we suddenly we
smelled gas and heard the sound of a pipe exploding. We went outside and found
more neighbours who smelled the same thing. It turned out that someone cut the
pipes. We tried closing the gas taps but they were rotten and wouldn't close."

Shochat pointed out that Jerusalem Police and firefighters were quick to arrive
on the scene, but gas company employees did not arrive until three days later.
She added that an investigation the same evening found that 250 families had
their pipes cut.

According to Shochat, this is not just vandalism but another incident in a
series of incidents of terrorism which originate in the nearby Isawiya
neighbourhood.

"They set fire to natural growth," said Shochat. "Throughout the summer there
were fires here, some of them posing a risk to homes. They break windows, damage
public gardens, harass, steal from yards and roam around freely."

She added that now, residents do not allow Jewish boys and girls to walk freely
around the neighbourhood in the evening for fear of attacks. "They come at
night, do what they do, and immediately go the paths to Isawiya."

Just two months ago, a Jewish resident of Jerusalem was attacked in Isawiya.
Baruch Pruss, who works as a repairman, was viciously attacked in the
neighbourhood by Arabs who threw concrete blocks and huge stones towards him. He
only managed to escape the attack thanks to help from older Arabs living in the
area who helped him leave.

"If they've decided to abandon us and return us to the Palestinian [National]
Authority, then [Jerusalem Mayor] Nir Barkat should get up and say it openly:
'We've decided to give you to Abbas'. Then we'll confront him," said Shochat.

She described an intolerable reality in which people who recognize a thief or a
burglar prefer not to confront him for fear of violence, and give up on
contacting the authorities since they are "tired of bureaucracy," as she put it.

"We have become a place of terror," said Shochat and wondered if she as a Jew
would be allowed to wander freely in the streets of Isawiya.

Source: Arutz 7 Radio website, Bet El (West Bank), in English 7 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

Shop yobs attack worker in raid terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 147 words


YOUNG thugs left a shop worker with serious facial injuries after a botched
robbery.

Two teenagers attacked the 48-year-old man at the store on Wood Street, in
Middleton after they failed to open the till.

The victim suffered a ruptured eye socket and suspected broken cheek when he was
knocked into a shelf.

He was taken to hospital after the incident, at around 6pm on Tuesday, November
30.

The attackers were aged around 16 to 17, white, and had local accents.

Det Con Russ Clarke said: I would ask anyone who saw anything suspicious in the
area around 6pm or if you saw the offenders going into or leaving the shop to
please get in touch.

We are treating this as an isolated incident but would like to remind all shop
owners to be extra vigilant during the lead up to Christmas.

Anyone with information is urged to call police on 0161 856 8581 or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 10, 2010 Friday

Pakistan minister says terror attacks likely during Muharram

LENGTH: 382 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "Terror threats in Muharram
exist: Malik" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 10 December

Islamabad: Interior Minister Rehman Malik has said that threats of terrorist
attacks are there in the holy month of Muharram and all measures will be taken
to avert the same.

Talking to the media here at the National Police Academy after a meeting of
board of governors on Thursday, he said the government was taking measures to
eliminate corruption from society and nobody would be spared in this regard. He
urged the media to help the government in its anti-corruption drive.

To a question, he said Brahamdagh Bugti was in Kabul and had applied for taking
political asylum in some countries, but 'we have conveyed our reservations in
this regard'. He said the premier announced the Balochistan package for the
province to remove backwardness of the Baloch people, adding Prime Minister
Gillani had asked him to visit Balochistan and review the implementation of the
package.

He said he would soon visit the province and spend some days there to review
progress on the package. He said academic and training courses of police
officials needed to be revised. He said police officials, who would complete
their training from the academy, would be awarded master's degree and sent
abroad for further training. "We are in contact with the Quaid-e-Azam University
for the award of master's degree to successful police officials," he said,
adding the syllabus and duration of classes would be changed and revised in line
with modern and international standards.

He said human rights, children protection, anti-terrorist courses and other
similar topics would be added in revised syllabus. Malik said the academy was
facing shortage of professional teachers.

"It has been decided in the meeting that police officials will be sent abroad
for 15-day training on the completion of their courses from the academy," the
minister said, adding training would be made mandatory for promotion of police
officials.

He said the recruitment in Islamabad police was stopped after complaints of
irregularities in recruitment process, adding the process would soon be
initiated and completed purely on merit.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 10 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

CAMILLA ATTACK TERROR;
ROYAL LIMO SMASHED UP BY YOBS AS 20,000 PROTEST OVER FEES VOTE

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 110 words


CAMILLA gasps in horror as yobs attack her and Prince Charles's car after
student protests descended into violent mayhem last night.

The royal couple sat terrified as their Rolls-Royce was kicked, pelted with
objects, shaken from side to side and splattered with paint.

Camilla began to cry and clasped Charles's hand as masked thugs surged past
police outriders, smashed a window and tried to overturn the limo.

The attack came after 20,000 protesters paralysed London as ConDem MPs voted to
triple tuition fees to pounds 9,000 a year.

Rioters vandalised Westminster in running battles with police that left 55
people injured including 12 officers.

FULL COVERAGE INSIDE

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TAKE SPLAT Paint on royal car BURNING FURY Mob at Westminster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

CAMILLA ATTACK TERROR;
ROYAL LIMO SMASHED UP BY YOBS AS 20,000 PROTEST OVER FEES VOTE

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 267 words


CAMILLA gasps in horror as yobs attack her and Prince Charles's car after
student protests descended into violent mayhem last night.

The royal couple sat terrified as their Rolls-Royce was kicked, pelted with
objects, shaken from side to side and splattered with paint.

Camilla began to cry and clasped Charles's hand as 1,000 thugs surged past
police outriders, smashed a window and tried to overturn the limo.

The attack came after 20,000 students paralysed London in a huge demo as MPs
voted to triple tuition fees.

Student Matthew Brown said: "Charles and Camilla were waving and smiling as they
drove to the Royal Variety show. A security car tried to get through protesters
who shouted 'you can't knock people down!' "

It was then protesters began kicking and shaking the limousine and pelting it
with objects and eggs.

Matthew added: "Charles and Camilla looked shaken and really worried. He leaned
to his driver with panic on his face as if he was telling him to get out of
there fast.

"The car accelerated and was able to speed off." Charles and Camilla were
"unharmed" but looked shaken as they arrivedthe Palladium to meet stars
including Kylie Minogue and Take That. Witness Kather in a was able to speed
off."

Chaffey, 17, said: "There were 100s of protesters on Regent Street and when they
saw the police escort everyone started getting something to throw.

"Someone yelled 'It's Charles and Camilla!' and they threw bins in the road to
stop the car."

PM David Cameron last night. said the attack was "shocking and regrettable".
Police made 22 arrests. Six officers and 43 protesters were in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TAKE SPLAT Paint on royal car BURNING FURY Mob at Westminster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday

Algerian army kills 12 Al-Qa'idah terrorists in "major" attack

LENGTH: 446 words


Algerian army forces, on 10 December, killed no less than 12 Al-Qa'idah
terrorists in the Sidi Ali Bou Nab forest in Tizi Ouzou, and destroyed 15
hideouts in a "major" military offensive launched on 9 December and handled
jointly with a unit from the special forces, privately-owned Algerian newspaper
El-Khabar website reported on 11 December.

The offensive was in response to a tip-off by family members of a number of
terrorists keen on benefiting from the reconciliation law. Parallel to a move to
disable mobile phone networks to prevent terrorist from remote detonation of
explosives, the joint security forces began intensive shelling, while blocking
all entry/exist points to the forests of Douar Sidi Ali Bou Nab, Mezrana and
Yakouren, El-Khabar reported.

The size of the army force and the weaponry used indicate that the joint
security forces were acting upon accurate information about the whereabouts of
the terrorist groups, El-Khabar reported.

Sources in the area are quoted as saying that heavy artillery and helicopters
were used to comb the forests. And, according to local sources, the offensive is
being run by high-ranking army officers, who had been drafted specifically for
this purpose.

There has been no accurate information on the preliminary toll of this
offensive. However, news circulating say that the army had been besieging a
"dangerous terrorist group" in the Douar Sidi Ali Bou Nab forest, El-Khabar
reported.

Algerian newspaper Al-Fadjr website, on 11 December, covered the same story and
spoke of the killing of seven terrorists and the wounding of 15 others. The
paper said that no less than 5,000 soldiers have been deployed to fight
"remnants" of terrorist groups trying to target public institutions and
defenceless people.

Al-Fadj also said that "the offensive was in response to information confirming
the infiltration to the area of 50 terrorists, including five emirs, in an
attempt to hold a secret conference following the killing of the most prominent
leaders of the terrorist organization by various security forces. The source
also said that the [planned] meeting was supposed to be devoted to the
appointment of a number of new emirs in replacement of those killed."

On 10 December, Qatari Al-Jazeera TV's "Maghreb Harvest" programme said that the
leader of Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb (AQLIM), Abdelmalek
Droukdel, may have been among the 12 terrorists killed in the offensive.

Both Algerian newspapers make no specific reference to Abdelmalek Droukdel.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 11 Dec 10; Al-Fadjr website,
Algiers, in Arabic 11 Dec 10; l-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2100 gmt 10 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Prince and Camilla exposed to 'serious terrorism threat' bydemonstration clash ;

ATTACKONROYALCAR'MUST BESEENASTERRORWARNING' demonstration clash

BYLINE: SION MORGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1260 words


POLICE and protection officers charged with safeguarding some of Britain's most
high profile figures are clearly unprepared, security experts said yesterday.

The ease with which a group of seemingly unorganised students attacked a
Rolls-Royce containing Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall would have
sent messages to would-be attackers all over the world, they said.

The image of a horrified Camilla in the back of the royal limousine will be the
defining image of this week's student protests against rises in tuition fees.

The attack, in which the car was doused in paint and a window shattered, has
raised serious questions about royal security,which was breached with apparent
ease by demonstrators on London's Regent Street.

There were calls yesterday for a full independent inquiry into the incident.

International security expert and former senior instructor at the Royal Military
Academy in Sandhurst, Dr Paul Moorcraft, described the incident as a "major
mistake".

"Had it been al-Qaeda it would not have been too difficult for a terrorist to
approach the vehicle with a revolver and unleash three or four rounds into the
car," the former Cardiff University professor said.

"I suppose it maybe demonstrated a touch of arrogance from the Met. There is
maybe a feeling that the Royal Family are untouchable. It was certainly a severe
security breach which exposed a serious terrorism threat. It must be viewed as a
warning."

Secret services expert Gordon Thomas, author of Inside British Intelligence: 100
years of MI5 and MI6, said: "It was a very serious attack, you could see that
just from the shock in the eyes of Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall.

"And don't underestimate the force it took to break one of the car's bulletproof
windows - their aim was clear, to cause harm."

Mr Thomas, from Ammanford, added: "The issue here is police protection and the
effectiveness of the police.

"Yes, officers might be wonderful at blowing their whistles and directing royal
cars through the busy London streets but it is clear that when it comes to their
real role of protection they are not adequately prepared.

"I don't think we want to reach the stage where, like with President Obama, we
see a fleet of huge vehicles surrounded by security, but the issue of police
protection must be addressed.

"Of course it sends out a message to people, to terrorists.

"We all know that they [the royal couple] are in Clarence House, and yesterday
we knew they were travelling to the Royal Variety Performance, for heaven's
sake. It doesn't take any intelligence to work that out so of course incidents
like this send clues to terrorists."

Yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron told MPs he was "very concerned" about
the "very regrettable" security lapse and said Met Commissioner Sir Paul
Stephenson would report on it.

Sir Paul signalled a "full criminal investigation" to identify those who
threatened the couple and damaged the car.

But Tory backbencher Mark Pritchard insisted the incident could not be left to
an internal Scotland Yard investigation.

Armed royal protection officers were guarding Charles and Camilla when their car
was attacked, Sir Paul said yesterday, adding that the route used by the royal
Rolls-Royce had been "thoroughly recce'd" minutes before the incident.

Sir Paul said the armed officers showed "enormous restraint" during the attack.
"I think what you have to remember is the unpredictability of those, I was going
to call them demonstrators, but these thugs, in the way in which they were
moving around London," he said.

"I do think that the officers who were protecting Their Royal Highnesses showed
very real restraint - some of those officers were armed.

"Their priority was to get that car to the point of safety, which was the venue,
and that was achieved, but it was a hugely shocking incident and there will be a
full criminal investigation into it."

AWelsh member of the Royal Military Police, currently serving as a close
protection officer and used to providing security for international dignitaries,
also defended the officers.

The officer, who wished to remain anonymous to protect his identity, told the
Western Mail: "I think the Royal Protection Force did a good job considering all
the factors.

"Our role is to provide protection so that the royals can do their job. This is
not America, we don't run alongside the cars, what we do is far more covert.

"All our actions are reactions to something else. Yesterday, if someone would
have tried to enter the car then we would have reacted differently.

"Once it was clear the vehicle was being damaged a cordon was created and the
car was able to move through to its destination.

"The only debatable decision was the route the car took.

"Normally it would be planned and checked but from what I have heard from
colleagues, the protestors were moving at such a fast pace there was no way of
reacting in time.

"In any scenario like that an assessment would have been made and in this case
the right call was made."

However, others continued to question the standard of protection yesterday.

Security analyst and former police officer Charles Shoebridge said: "This is a
very serious incident. It ranks amongst the most serious security breaches of
the past decade. Some of the demonstrators yesterday were carrying petrol,
specifically to use in arson attacks. If the can of paint had been a can of
petrol, it would have been very different."

The former intelligence officer, with experience of public order policing, said:
"One can visualise a situation where police felt they had no alternative but to
open fire. It wasn't potentially dangerous. It was dangerous.

"The police will need to look at this in great detail. They need a rapid and
robust investigation to identify how it could have happened.

"The best means of preventing a subject being attacked is to keep him out of
harm's way in the first place."

He said royal protection involved preparation in terms of intelligence and
reconnaissance and in this case "even the general public could have realised"
there were potential problems.

He said Sir Paul should "admit that the police got it wrong" in using the route.

"There were thousands of police on duty so there shouldn't have been a problem
with information.

They could have put an alternative plan into effect, an alternative route. But
they continued to blunder into the demonstration itself.

"This incident raises a question over whether some of the people in positions of
responsibility are the right people for the job. It raises questions of
communication, of proper risk assessment and of management, leadership and
supervision."

Brian Paddick, a former deputy assistant commissioner with the Metropolitan
Police, said: "I don't think that Prince Charles and Camilla should have ever
found themselves in that situation. They should have had motorcycle outriders
well in advance of the car who should have seen what was around the corner and
diverted them on another route."

David Davis, former shadow Home Secretary said: "Sir Paul has very serious
questions to answer about this operation.

"The police always know where the Prince is for obvious security reasons. So why
were professional anarchists and violent agitators allowed to come anywhere near
his car?" Charles and Camilla were visibly shaken but unharmed. A Clarence House
spokesman said the couple understood the "difficulties" the police face and are
"very grateful" for the job they do in "very challenging circumstances".

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The vandalised statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square,
London, as the clear up begins after yesterday''s student protest over rises in
tuition fees

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Stockholm hit by car bomb terror attack

BYLINE: David Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 445 words


TWO car bombs 300 yards apart brought terror to the centre of Stockholm last
night as Islamist extremists claimed responsibility for the blasts, which killed
one man and injured two other people.

The explosions terrified crowds of people in the heart of the Swedish capital.

Panicked Christmas shoppers fled at the sound of the blasts. The area was sealed
off and the authorities brought in robots to tackle explosives and gas bottles,
which were found in one of the vehicles.

Beside the car was the body of a man who is believed to have been an attacker.
Close by was a bag containing a number of pipe bombs. Petra Sjolander, a police
spokeswoman, said the first explosion had been in another car, which contained
gas canisters.

The Swedish news agency TT said that 10 minutes before the explosions it had
received an email with a sound file attached in both Swedish and Arabic.

The sound file criticised Sweden's "silence" over the publication of caricatures
of the Prophet Muhammad by the Swedish artist Lars Vilks, and the Swedish
contribution to the war in Afghanistan. Sweden has about 500 troops stationed in
the north of the country. "Our actions will talk for themselves," the sound file
said.

"As long as you don't end your war against Islam and your humiliation of the
prophet and your stupid support for the pig Vilks." Vilks's images of the
prophet have attracted little attention in his home country, where he has a
reputation as a self-publicist and for creating images that are designed to
provoke.

The artist describes his own skill as quite limited and the Swedish art
establishment pays little attention to his work.

However, his images have provoked a gathering storm in the Islamic world.

Last spring, a Philadelphia woman was charged with trying to recruit Islamist
terrorists to murder Vilks. In May Muslim protesters assaulted him while he was
giving a lecture about free speech at Uppsala University in southern Sweden. The
attack at the lecture started when a film about Islam and homosexuality that had
been banned from YouTube was shown.

This was the first time that any threats against him had been carried out. Four
days later Vilks's house, also in southern Sweden, was attacked by arsonists.

Windows were smashed and Molotov cocktails were thrown into the house, which
caught fire.

Vilks was not at home at the time. In November a more serious threat to the
artist emerged when a video produced by the Somali terrorist organisation
Al-Shabaab was sent out, threatening him with death. In the video a
Swedishspeaking terrorist appealed to "all the Somali brothers and sisters" in
Sweden to leave that country to travel to Somalia to fight for Al-Shabaab.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Firefighters tackle a car blaze started by one of the blasts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 12, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears for England safety at World Cup;
CRICKET Hosts 'should provide bomb-proof vehicles' to counter threat of
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Scyld Berry

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419 words


England's safety at next year's World Cup in Asia, and that of the 13 other
national teams, will be put at risk from terrorist attacks unless there is a
sudden and major change of strategy, a security expert has warned.

The proposal is for the 14 World Cup teams to travel in ordinary buses from
airport to hotel to ground in the three countries hosting the tournament -
India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh - in February and March. An armed local police
officer is due to be on board each bus, which will be accompanied by escort
vehicles.

In the light of the terrorist attack in Lahore in March 2009, when gunmen killed
eight people and injured several of Sri Lanka's Test cricketers after bullets
pierced their bus, such arrangements are "hopelessly inadequate", says the
expert, who is calling for bom-bresistant buses to be provided, at a cost of
between £290,000 and £330,000 each. To stage the World Cup, the organisers have
been given £84 million by the International Cricket Council. Providing the
relative security of bomb-resistant buses would cost an estimated £4.2 million,
or five per cent of their total budget.

Before the Lahore attack, the perception was that sportsmen in Asia, and
particularly cricketers, would never be threatened by terrorists. That theory
died with the eight victims in Lahore.

It is understood that the greatest fear of World Cup security advisers is of an
attack on a team in transit by road. Promises by organisers to clear roads for
team buses in the three host countries are not regarded as reliable.

In addition to the attack directly on Sri Lanka's cricketers in Lahore,
terrorists struck in November 2008 at the Taj Mahal Hotel in Mumbai, where
officials and players were gathering for the inaugural Champions League, which
had to be cancelled.

Earlier this year a bomb went off at the stadium in Bangalore where an Indian
Premier League match was about to be staged. The players, including Kevin
Pietersen, were assured that the ground was safe before the game went ahead, but
more bombs were found in the stadium after the match.

Bomb-resistant buses were considered by IPL officials for the eight teams in
this year's competition, but not in time for them to be delivered.

Ashes Special

ROUND TABLE

Michael Vaughan, Geoffrey Boycott and Ian Chappell on the big issues of the
series

PERTH WARNING

Scyld Berry on why England are vulnerable in the third Test

OFF THE PACE

England's fast bowlers struggle to make a case against Victoria

CLOWN PRINCE

Steve James interviews Graeme Swann

S8-9

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 13, 2010 Monday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Stockholm

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN STOCKHOLM" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkey has condemned the terrorist attacks which were staged in
Stockholm, Sweden on December 11.

Turkish Foreign Ministry stated on Sunday that Ankara condemned the attacks, and
wished speed recovery for the people who were injured in the attacks.

Turkey, which always defended that terrorism was unacceptable regardless of its
aim and stressed the importance of international cooperation in fight against
terrorism, was in solidarity with Sweden and its people in such difficult days,
stated the Ministry.

On Saturday, a car blew up in a busy shopping area, followed minutes later by a
second explosion nearby, in Stockholm. Suspected bomber was killed while two
people were wounded in the attacks.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0547 gmt 13 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 13, 2010 Monday

Pakistan: Karachi police chief hints at terror attacks on Ashura

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "Terrorism threat on Ashura,
says CCPO" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 13 December

Karachi, Dec 12: Claiming that strict measures had been taken to tackle any
untoward situation, the city police chief said here on Sunday [12 December] that
there was a threat of terrorism in Karachi on Ashura-i-Muharram.

Capital City Police Officer [CCPO] Fayyaz Ahmed Leghari was speaking to newsmen
after presiding over a meeting of police officers held at the Garden police
headquarters.

He said that the security plan for the main processions to be taken out on the
9th and 10th of Muharram had been reviewed. The police would take over the
control of all buildings on the route of the processions on the 8th of Muharram,
he added.

The CCPO said that 5,700 policemen would be deployed along the route of the main
procession.

In addition to the deployment from the regular police, 1,000 men belonging from
the special police group, crime investigation department, special branch and
traffic would also be deployed for the security of the processions, he added.

He said the processions would be monitored through security cameras which had
been installed along the route and at the Nishtar Park.

All makeshift shops, cabins, pushcarts or any type of boxes would be removed
from the route of the procession, he said.

Media persons, vehicles of the participants of the procession and ambulances
would be issued special passes to enter the procession, he added.

Later, the CCPO inspected the security arrangements at the Numaish area from
where the procession would be taken out.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 13 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 13, 2010 Monday

Terrorist attack in Sweden shows no country in Europe safe - Polish paper

LENGTH: 332 words


Text of report by Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita on 12 December

[Editorial by Piotr Zychowicz: "The War on Terror Continues"]

Islamic mujahidin - as they described themselves - have carried out suicide
attacks in the capital of a European country. They set off bombs in a shopping
district in Stockholm at a time when hordes of Swedes were doing their Christmas
shopping. It was only because of a technical glitch with the bombs that a
tragedy was avoided. There could have been hundreds of victims if the bombs had
gone off as planned.

The target of the attack was one of the most liberal countries in Europe that
welcomes immigrants with open arms and generously provides them with social
benefits. A country that is known for its tolerance and respect for human
rights. In recent years alone, Sweden has granted asylum to 1,000 Iraqi refugees
for humanitarian reasons.

The attacks in Stockholm show that radical Islamists have no mercy for anyone.
If it turns out that the attack was carried out by immigrants, the Swedes'
liberalism may turn against them. The moral of this story is a bitter one: no
country in Europe is safe today, regardless of the policies it conducts.

A significant amount of time has passed since the last spectacular attacks in
Europe. The massacre in Madrid took place in 2004 (191 fatalities) while the
attacks in London occurred in 2005 (52 victims). The explosions in Stockholm
should therefore come as an alarm bell for intelligence agencies. Islamic
terrorists are still in the game, they are still dangerous, and next time they
may be luckier.

Unfortunately, one may get the impression that the West's drive to combat
radical Islam has weakened recently. It is said that US President Barack Obama
has even prohibited his associates from using the term "the war on terror" owing
to its status as a relic of the loathed George W Bush era. If this war really
does not exist anymore, then what happened in Stockholm?

Source: Rzeczpospolita, Warsaw in Polish 12 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Sweden attack 'terror';
TheWorld

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 32 words


SWEDISH police said that two explosions in central Stockholm were an act of
terrorism by what appeared to be a suicide bomber, who killed himself and
injured two people on a busy shopping street.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     December 13, 2010 Monday 07:21 AM GMT

Tolerant Sweden shocked at terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 726 words


Sweden was reeling today after two explosions targeted the tolerant and open
nation that had not seen a terrorist attack in more than 30 years.

Two people were wounded in central Stockholm on Saturday in what appeared to be
the first suicide bombing in Sweden's history.

A car exploded in the middle of the Christmas shopping frenzy, shooting flames
and causing several smaller blasts as people ran screaming from the scene.

The blast that killed the suspected bomber, named in some reports as an
Iraqi-born Swede who was a student in the UK, came moments later a few streets
away from the car explosion on a busy street.

Experts said the bomber probably did not succeed in detonating all the
explosives and could have caused much greater damage.

Police have not confirmed that the attack was motivated by Islamist views, but
an audio file sent to Swedish news agency TT shortly before the blast referred
to jihad, Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan and a cartoon by a Swedish
artist that depicted the Prophet Mohammed as a dog, enraging many Muslims.

"Now the Islamic state has been created. We now exist here in Europe and in
Sweden. We are a reality," the voice said in the file. "I don't want to say more
about this. Our actions will speak for themselves."

Meanwhile police in the UK were searching a property in Bedfordshire after
reports said the bomber lived in Luton and studied at the University of
Bedfordshire.

Swedish prime minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said the attack was "unacceptable" but
urged Swedes not to jump to "premature conclusions" that "create tension which
paints pictures that are then difficult to change".

"Sweden is an open society ... which has stated a wish that people should be
able to have different backgrounds, believe in different in gods ... and live
side by side in our open society," Mr Reinfeldt said.

Swedes, with a tradition of welcoming immigrants and a culture of transparency,
began questioning their self-image of being a secure nation after the 1986
murder of prime minister Olof Palme.

In 2003, the fatal stabbing of foreign minister Anna Lindh in a department store
was a wake-up call for many, but there have been no major terrorist strikes.

"We had a terrorist attack in the 1970s from the Rote Armee Fraktion of Germany,
but if this is a suicide bomber it is the first time in Sweden," security police
spokesman Anders Thornberg said.

"It's very serious and it's very tragic that these things have come to Sweden
too."

Yesterday the district where the explosions occurred was eerily quiet and empty
for a mid-December weekend.

"We're used to seeing things like this on the news. This was a lot closer to
home but it still doesn't feel very tangible," said Eric Osterman, a 26-year-old
student.

German tourist Melanie Ziethmann, 34, said she heard the explosion on Saturday
but did not realise what it was until a friend in Germany contacted her to make
sure she was safe.

"We were surprised that this happened in Sweden," she said. "It was quite
shocking. I thought it was very safe here."

In October Sweden raised its terror threat alert level from low to elevated
because of what police called "a shift in activities" among Swedish-based groups
that could be plotting attacks.

Days later, police made several arrests over an alleged bomb plot in the
country's second-largest city, Gothenburg. The suspects were later released and
police said the city was no longer deemed to be under threat.

Magnus Norell, a terrorism expert at the Swedish Defence Research Agency, said
it was just a matter of time before Sweden was hit by a terror attack.

"Sweden isn't an isolated island, even if we might think that sometimes," he
said. "We have only been lucky so far."

Mr Norell said Sweden had the same problem with worsening radicalisation among
Islamic groups as other countries, with young men travelling to training camps
in countries such as Somalia and Pakistan.

"The whole idea is that this is a global war for them and that the target exists
everywhere, all over the world," he said.

Yesterday around 100 people assembled in chilly central Stockholm for a peaceful
demonstration organised by Swedish Muslims for Peace and Justice.

Samaa Sarsour, 26, one of the main organisers of the rally, urged the crowd to
punch the air and kick out their feet in a display of defiance against the
hijacking of religion by extremists.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trio 'would launch terror attack' if control orders are lifted

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words


Three terrorist suspects will launch attacks if they are released from house
arrest, MI5 has warned the Government as it delayed for a second time a decision
on whether to scrap controversial control orders.

An announcement originally due this month has been pushed back to January, as
Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, considers the advice of the security
services, who have warned that three British citizens under the orders would
commit acts of terrorism if they were not closely monitored.

Newspapers are banned from identifying individuals, but The Daily Telegraph can
disclose there are eight control orders still in place. The individuals have
been allowed to visit parks, go to college and, in one case, visit a nightclub.

"AY", from Birmingham, allegedly flew into Britain on a false passport to help
plan the trans-Atlantic airlines terror plot. He was in touch with key figures
in the plot, including al-Qaeda commanders in Pakistan.

"AM", from Lancashire, was an associate of Rashid Rauf, a senior al-Qaeda
commander, who was allegedly set to meet AY for instructions on how to make a
bomb and record a martyrdom video.

"BM", from Ilford, Essex, was said to be an organiser who had been given
explosives training and could contact senior al-Qaeda figures.

Jamie Bartlett, the head of the violence and extremism programme at Demos, a
Left-wing think tank, said: "Those who wish to see control orders abolished must
satisfactorily explain what they would do with those individuals currently under
an order."

Duncan Gardham

Editorial Comment: Page 25

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Independent Extra

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

We must hold fast to our values in the face of terror;
Leading Articles Stockholm attack

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words


The investigation into the attempted terror attack in Stockholm at the weekend
is still in its early stages, but there are some tentative conclusions that can
be drawn. The first is that the attack was incompetent. The car bomb had
similarities with previous failed attempted attacks in New York, Glasgow and
London. And the individual found dead in the area had been carrying an explosive
device, which would seem to suggest that this was the bomber himself.

But the incompetence of the execution allows no complacency. Although just two
people were hurt (other than the presumed bomber), this could easily have been
lethal. Six years after the Madrid train bombings, the threat of terror still
haunts Europe's streets.

An email sent before the attempted attack suggests that this attack was
motivated by Sweden's military involvement in Afghanistan and the fact that a
Swedish cartoonist, Lars Viks, in 2007 drew a picture of the Prophet Mohamed in
a local newspaper that offended many Muslims.

The Mohamed cartoons affair, which began in 2006 in Denmark, continues to have
repercussions. In January, a Somali man broke into the home of the Danish
cartoonist Kurt Westergaard armed with a knife and an axe. In September an
(unsuccessful) letter bomb was send to Jyllands-Posten, the Danish newspaper
that published the original offending cartoons.

So how should democracies respond to this insidious threat, driven as much by
religious offence as anger at Western military actions abroad? The answer is
that we need to keep calm and defend our liberal values. The solution is not
censorship of magazines or newspapers. In May an attempt was made to burn down
Mr Viks's home. However offensive his art might be to some, he needs to be
protected by the Swedish authorities. And the same is true of other Nordic
cartoonists who now find their lives under threat.

Nor can censorship of ideas be any sort of solution. This is directly relevant
to Britain since the Home Secretary, Theresa May, is considering banning Terry
Jones, the American pastor who threatened to burn the Koran on the anniversary
of the September 11 attacks, from entering Britain to address an English Defence
League rally in February. Ms May has the power to exclude an individual from
coming to the UK if they are not conducive to the public good - and she has been
lobbied by anti-extremist groups to bar Mr Jones's entry. But the Home Secretary
needs to think very hard before exercising this power. Unless it can be shown
that Mr Jones will directly incite violence, it would be better not to make a
martyr of him. The Obama administration made a mistake in giving Mr Jones's
pathetic threatened Koran-burning stunt publicity by condemning it. A UK travel
ban could compound this error.

Equally, the solution is not repressive domestic measures. The previous Labour
government took a disastrous wrong turn when it responded to the September 11
attacks by detaining terror suspects without charge and curtailing freedom of
speech through the religious hatred act.

The terror threat against the populations of Western states is real. But it
needs to be treated like a criminal conspiracy, rather than an emergency that
requires the suspension of our liberal traditions. Our police and intelligence
services are adequately equipped to meet the threat. Our existing laws are
capable of dealing with those who resort to violence to further their goals. And
our societies are strong enough to withstand these challenges, providing we do
not compromise our values.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IE


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                     December 13, 2010 Monday 11:43 AM GMT

Stockholm blasts were 'a terrorist attack'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 747 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sweden's chief prosecutor has said that two explosions in Stockholm
last night which killed two and wounded one were 'a terrorist attack'.


Swedish police investigating two blasts that rocked central Stockholm last
night, killing one person and wounding two have said that they had good leads
into what they said were 'terror crimes'.

Before the explosions, the Swedish news agency TT received a threatening letter
about Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan and caricatures of the Prophet
Mohammad drawn several years ago by a Swedish cartoonist.

A senior Swedish security police official told a news conference that the blasts
were being treated as 'terror crimes' and police had established good leads.

Anders Thornberg, director of operations at the Security Police, said police
could neither confirm that the man who died was a suicide bomber nor discuss his
identity, as some family members had not yet been informed.

'We are investigating this as terror crimes according to Swedish law, we have
not raised the security threat level and said that the police were stepping up
their presence in the capital.'

A car burst into flames near a busy shopping street in the city centre, followed
by explosions inside the car which police said were caused by gas canisters.

The second explosion, 10 to 15 minutes later took place 300 metres away and
killed one man and wounded two people.

Reaction to the bombing

In a message on Twitter, Sweden's Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said 'Most
worrying attempt at terrorist attack in crowded part of central Stockholm.
Failed - but could have been truly catastrophic.'

The Imam of Stockholm's grand mosque has condemned twin blasts which targeted
shoppers in the Swedish capital, killing one person, believed to be the bomber.

Sheik Hassan Mussa has deplored 'all forms of attacks, violence, fears and
threats against innocent people, whatever the motive or pretext,' in a statement
sent to the Swedish news agency TT.

Police vans cordoned off several streets around the body and towed away the car.
The rest of the city centre was calm, with people having a normal Saturday night
out.

Several hours after the blast, the man's body was still lying on the pavement,
covered with a white sheet.

Swedish newspapers all said the dead man had blown himself up. Dagens Nyheter
quoted a man called Pascal, a trained medic, as saying: 'It looked as if the man
had been carrying something that exploded in his stomach.

'He had no injuries to the face or body in general and the shops around were not
damaged.'

The Aftonbladet quoted a source as saying the man was carrying six pipe bombs,
of which only one exploded, and a rucksack full of nails and suspected explosive
material.

The paper quoted eyewitnesses as saying the man was shouting in what was
believed to be Arabic.

TT said the email it received was also sent to the Security Police and had sound
files in Swedish and Arabic.

'Our actions will speak for themselves, as long as you do not end your war
against Islam and humiliation of the Prophet and your stupid support for the pig
Vilks,' TT quoted a man as saying in one recording.

TT said the threat was linked to Sweden's contribution to the US-led NATO force
in Afghanistan, where it has 500 soldiers, mainly in the north.

It also referred to caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad by the Swedish artist
Lars Vilks, who depicted the Prophet with the body of a dog in a cartoon in
2007.

Most Muslims consider any depiction of the founder of Islam offensive.

Islamist website identifies the bomber

Meanwhile, an Islamist website Shumukh al-Islam has identified the bomber as
Taymour Abdel Wahab and published a photograph it said was him.

A statement accompanying the photo said: 'It is our brother, Mujahid Taymour
Abdel Wahab, who carried out the martyrdom operation in Stockholm.'

Swedish intelligence agency Saepo have refused to confirm the Yemeni Islamist
website's claimed identification of a man behind weekend bomb blasts in
Stockholm.

Evan Kohlmann, a US terrorism consultant, told Reuters that a small militant
Islamic community had been based in Sweden for some time. But he thought the
incident on Saturday, if an attack, was one man's work.

'Given the scale of this attack and the target, I suspect this is a homegrown
local extremist who may or may not have connections to any actual terrorist
organisation.

'We've seen a flurry of attempted attacks across northern Europe by similar lone
wolf militants who were, in one way or another, enraged by the cartoon
controversy.'

Police spokesman Kjell Lindgren said it was not clear what had started the fire
that made gas canisters in the car explode.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2010 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cyber terror attack would leave all of us spooked

BYLINE: SHAF Rasul

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 563 words


I'M a big fan of BBC series Spooks - a tense drama about the different
challenges faced by the British security service.

I guess it stems from my love of James Bond and my early desire of growing up to
be an MI5 operative.

Bringing down the bad guys and being the personification of cool always seemed
like a great lifestyle and career choice for me.

However my newsagent father told me to get my head out the clouds, go to
university and study law.

I took his advice and my ambitions to be a spy were dashed from an early age.

Spooks gives you a thrilling insight into MI5's efforts in protecting us from
increasing security threats. It's gripping stuff as the agents, below, defuse
potential dangers and balance international relations with their spy
counterparts from across the globe.

Gossip I watched a recent episode that focused on a dispute with the Russians
who planned to bring the UK to a standstill by disabling our online digital
communication networks.

For a start, could they really do that? Maybe it's just fiction - but it's a
scary proposition.

If we were to go offline for even a morning it would cost our economy billions -
we wouldn't be able to trade on the global markets, international trade would be
down and it would obliterate our transport infrastructure.

Not to mention the personal inconvenience.We use the net for everything from
shopping and checking train times to getting the latest gossip.

I know a few people who would have a complete and utter breakdown if they were
unable to log-on to Facebook or Twitter for a few hours.

In all seriousness, we all have some level of internet dependency.

So it was interesting when Google released its annual list of most searched
words and terms last week, giving a snapshot of the stories and trends that have
captured our imagination in the past 12 months. Tellingly, the most popular was
Facebook which now has 26million users in Britain.

However the "zeitgeist" also revealed the public's continuing obsession with
celebrities. Teen pop sensation and Usher prodigy Justin Beiber, Ellie Goulding
and US firework Katy Perry were among the most-searched celebs.

Fashion designer Alexander McQueen and TV presenter Kristian Digby, who both
died this year, also featured high on the list. High-profile divorces also
earned their own category this year. British web users browsed for the latest
gossip on Cheryl Cole, Tiger Woods and Eva Longoria.

Even WWF legend Hulk Hogan's three-year-old divorce from Linda Bollea was the
subject of intense interest, assisted by photographs of Bollea partying on a new
yacht, which she named Alimoney.

However zeitgeist also reveals the glum underbelly of the internet. The report
found that some of the most common searches were for "I feel lonely," "I want
love" and "I hate love". Google's new business development manager Matthew
"Chewy" Trewhella said: "A lot of people trust their search engines to find
other people going through the same thing," adding that the US search engine
giant recently added the Samaritans' number to the results page for "suicide".
It's a touch alarming that a growing number of us are increasingly seeing the
internet as a companion and something we expect answers from. So I'm now left
only to hope that MI5 is using all its powers to protect our country from a
cyber terror strike.

It appears an attack would damage a lot more than just our economy.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan interior minister confined to room after hoax calls about terror attack

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report by staff reporter headlined "Hoax calls confine minister to room"
published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 14 December

Islamabad, 13 December: Interior Minister Rehman Malik was confined to a room in
the interior ministry for over an hour after the ministry received three hoax
calls about possible terrorist attacks on the minister, a senior official of the
ministry told Dawn on Monday [13 December].

The unidentified caller in his first call said that there was bomb planted in
the building. In the second call he said the minister would be attacked and the
third call was about carrying out attack on the minister at his residence.

"Some other senior officials were also moved to the room along with the
minister," the official said.

The security personnel of the ministry and bomb disposal squad combed each and
every room of the ministry for the bomb, the official said. They used sniffer
dogs and explosives and metal detectors but could not find anything.

The search was completed within four hours and later the blocks were declared
safe.

It could not be ascertained that who in the ministry received the calls. Many
attempts were made to contact director media Nawazish Ali Asim but he neither
responded nor received telephone calls.

Sources said security personnel also combed the minister's residence.

Meanwhile, the interior minister ordered Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) to
take record of the three mysterious calls so that their callers could be
arrested for making hoax calls.

It has also been learnt that the security of interior minister, who already
enjoys heavy security around him, has been enhanced and he had been advised to
avoid his appearance in the public as much as possible.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 14 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan intelligence agencies warn of terror attacks on Muharram processions

LENGTH: 367 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 14 December: Intelligence agencies have warned of possible terrorism on
Muharram processions, commander Sachal Rangers (Sindh), Brig. Waseem Ayub, said
here on Tuesday [14 December]. "We have received intelligence reports of
attempts by the banned organizations, jihadi groups and Al-Qa'idah to target
processions specially during 8th, 9th and 10th Muharram," he told a press
conference at Rangers Headquarters.

He said 7,143 personnel of Rangers have been deployed all over the province to
provide security to the people at mosques, imambargahs and processions. At least
67 imambargahs have been declared most sensitive, 19 imambargahs and 112 mosques
sensitive till Chehlum across the province, he pointed out.

Brig. Waseem said that ulema [clergy] of all schools of thought have been
appealed to create awareness among the people to cooperate with the law
enforcement agencies to meet any emergency. He said Karachi and interior of
Sindh have been divided into three zone by the Rangers and added that no private
vehicles and motorcycles will be allowed to reach near the areas pointed out for
religious congregations. In cooperation with the ulema, he said, a minor change
in the route of the procession will take place on 9th and 10th of Muharram due
to security concerns, otherwise, the processions will pass through the old
routes.

The Special Rapid Rangers, team of Bomb Disposal Squad, sniffer dogs of Rangers
will remain alert, along with the personnel of police, along the routes of the
procession, besides the aerial surveillance, he added. In addition, meetings
have also been held with the higher authorities of traffic police to ensure
smooth flow of traffic during the Muharram processions. Brig. Waseem said that
round-the-clock monitoring has also been arranged in coordination with the City
District Government Karachi (CDGK), the police department and Rangers. Moreover,
the Rangers in collaboration with the police have also undertaken strict checks
on vehicles at exit and entry points of the metropolis, he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1144gmt
14 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Suicide bomber's call for new terror attacks;
RADICAL: STUDENT'S MESSAGE FROM BEYOND GRAVE

BYLINE: PA NEWS STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 372 words


The Stockholm suicide bomber called for more terrorist attacks on European
targets in a message from beyond the grave.

Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, 28, killed himself and wounded two people in a
botched suicide attack in the Swedish capital on Saturday afternoon.

An Arabic will apparently written by the multilingual Iraq-born university
graduate was posted on one jihadist internet forum.

The document called for more attacks in Europe and Sweden.

Security analyst Evan Kohlmann, of Flashpoint Partners, said a user who posted a
photograph of al-Abdaly also identified Swedish companies as potential targets.

ORDERS He added that the terrorist suggested he was carrying out the orders of
the "Islamic State of Iraq'' by undertaking the attack.

Al-Abdaly, an Iraq-born graduate of Bedfordshire University, left his wife and
three children at their family home, in Luton, to travel to Sweden several weeks
ago.

Swedish investigators said he visited his family in Tranas where his father was
celebrating his birthday.

But on Saturday, he loaded his white Audi with gas canisters and travelled to
Stockholm in a bid to wreak carnage on streets packed with Christmas shoppers.

Evidence from the scene indicated the car failed to explode and al-Abdaly was
killed about 300 metres away when explosives strapped to his chest detonated.

Police suspect the device may have exploded prematurely as the terrorist walked
to a nearby subway station or department store laden with three bombs.

The attack has once again thrown the spotlight on Luton as one of the nation's
focal points for religious tensions.

The town has been the scene of several clashes involving Islamic activists,
including several marches against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

It raised further questions at how successful the Government and education
authorities have been at driving radicals from British universities. The suicide
attack came after former University College London student Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab attempted to bring down a US aircraft on Christmas Day.

Religious leaders said al-Abdaly was driven out of the Luton Islamic Centre for
preaching about suicide bombings and attempting to recruit extremists.

The suicide bomber attended for a couple of months in 2006.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INVESTIGATION: A car is removed from a street in Luton where police
searched a house
PICTURE: AP PHOTO/AKIRA SUEMORI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2010 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

WOMAN, 87, SAVED FROM FIRE TERROR BY GARDAI;
ARSON ATTACK A 'MISTAKE'

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 358 words


TWO hero gardai saved an 87-yearold woman from her burning home after thugs
mistakenly targeted her house in a sick arson attack.

May O'Gorman was lucky to be alive after mindless criminals set fire to her home
at Morrogh's Hill in Cork city at around 4.30am yesterday.

An accelerant was poured through her letter box and set alight but gardai
believe Ms O'Gorman was not the intended victim of the cowardly attack.

Neighbours alerted Gardai at around 5am when smoke was seen billowing from the
house, where she lives alone.

Garda John O'Sullivan and Reserve Garda Peter Clifford broke down the door and
rescued her from her bedroom in a dramatic escape.

The pensioner was treated at Cork University Hospital for smoke inhalation and
later released.

Gardai O'Sullivan and Clifford were also treated in hospital.

Ms O'Gorman's son-in-law Noel Woods said she was badly shaken by the incident
but thankfully not badly injured.

He added: "It was about half past four, quarter to five and we heard banging on
our door and it was the guards. They told my wife that there had been a fire up
in her mother's house.

"We are just living around the corner from it and we went up and the fire
brigade and the guards were there. She was taken away in an ambulance and thank
God she is not too bad. It was mainly kind of fright and smoke but she is shaken
over it, it is an awful thing to happen."

Noel said May was asleep in bed at the time of the attack and it could have
ended in tragedy if gardai had not acted so quickly.

He said: "She was a bit dazed but she looked frightened. She has had a fall
recently that shook her a bit but apart from that she was in great form. It is a
sign of the times I think, it's only when it hits your door that you realise the
things that are going on."

The house was badly smoke damaged in the blaze and a full technical examination
was carried out at the scene. Gardai are hunting for a man spotted in the area
at the time of the attack who was wearing a black beanie hat, brown jacket and
jeans.

Detectives appealed to the public to contact them on 021 494 6200 if they
noticed any suspicious activity in the Blarney Street area yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAZE Scene of the crime in Cork yesterday HEROES John Sullivan and
Peter Clifford

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stockholm bomber calls for terror attacks in his will posted on website

BYLINE: STAFF REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 441 words


The Stockholm suicide bomber called for more terrorist attacks on European
targets in a message from beyond the grave.

Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, 28, killed himself and wounded two people in a
botched suicide attack in the Swedish capital on Saturday after noon.

An Arabic will apparently written by the multilingual Iraq-born university
graduate was posted on one jihadist internet forum last night.

The document, published on Shumukh al-Islam, the site which first identified him
as the bomber, called for more attacks in Europe and Sweden. Security analyst
Evan Kohlmann, of Flashpoint Partners, said a user who posted a photograph of
al-Abdaly also identified Swedish companies as potential targets.

He added that the terrorist suggested he was carrying out the orders of the
"Islamic State of Iraq" by undertaking the attack.

Al-Abdaly, an Iraq-born graduate of Bedfordshire University, left his wife and
three children at their family home in Luton to travel to Sweden several weeks
ago.

Swedish investigators said he visited his family in Tranas where his father was
celebrating his birthday.

But on Saturday he loaded his white Audi with gas canisters and travelled to
Stockholm in a bid to wreak carnage on streets packed with Christmas shoppers.

Evidence from the scene indicated the car failed to explode and al-Abdaly was
killed about 300 metres away when explosives strapped to his chest detonated.

Police suspect the device may have exploded prematurely as the terrorist walked
to a nearby subway station or department store laden with three bombs.

The attack has once again thrown the spotlight on Luton as one of the nation's
focal points for religious tensions.

The town has been the scene of several clashes involving Islamic activists,
including several marches against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

And it raised further questions at how successful the Government and education
authorities have been at driving radicals from British universities.

The suicide attack came after former University College London student Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab attempted to bring down a US aircraft on Christmas Day.

Religious leaders said al-Abdaly was driven out of the Luton Islamic Centre for
preaching about suicide bombings and attempting to recruit extremists.

Farasat Latif, secretary of the Luton Islamic Centre, said the suicide bomber
attended for a couple of months in 2006 or 2007. He described how al-Abdaly was
"bubbly" and "well-liked" but harboured increasingly radical and violent views.
Mr Latif said senior members thought they had "led him back to the truth" but he
stormed out after the chairman exposed him as a violent radical.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A car is removed from the suspect's house in Luton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2010 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan's Karachi police arrest alleged Taleban member, thwart terror attack

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 14 December: The Crime Investigation Division (CID), Karachi, has
thwarted a terrorist attack during Ashura by arresting an alleged member of
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP). "CID arrested Haji Rehman alias Saeed from
Sohrab Goth with explosives," said CID SP [Superintendent of Police] Fayyaz Khan
while addressing a press conference at the CID Garden office on Tuesday [14
December].

He said that at least six accomplices of the accused have managed to escape
during the raid. At least 10 kg of explosive material, three detonators, an AK
rifle and hundreds of rounds of ammunitions were recovered from the accused, he
added. The accused is a resident of Orangi Town, he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1600gmt
14 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          December 15, 2010, Wednesday

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HEROES ARE HONOURED;
IT'S TAKEN MORE THAN THREE YEARS TO HAVE THE BRAVERY OF ALL THE MEN RECOGNISED
BUT FINALLY..

BYLINE: Amy Devine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 430 words


SEVEN heroes of the Glasgow airport terror attack were yesterday finally
honoured for their bravery.

The group, which included two policemen, stopped the bombers from murdering
thousands of holidaymakers when they drove a jeep packed with gas canisters into
the terminal.

But the heroes were overlooked when only baggage handler John Smeaton was
awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal two years ago.

The Record nominated havea-go heroes Alex McI lveen, Michael Ker r and Stephen
The Record nominated havea-go heroes Alex McIlveen, Michael Kerr and Stephen
Clarkson for awards.

And along with sergeant Torquil Campbell, PC Stewart Ferguson, Michael McDonald
and Henry Lambie, they were given a Queen's Commendation for Bravery at a
ceremony attended by depute first minister Nicola Sturgeon yesterday.

Taxi driver Alex, 47, said: "This is fantastic. It's long overdue and I'd like
to thank the Record for nominating us. Without that we probably still would have
had no recognition for what happened."

Alex, of Glasgow, dedicated his award to his dad Ralph, who died 12 weeks ago.

Alex had just arrived at the airport on July 30, 2007, when he saw terrorists
Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed drive a Cherokee jeep into the terminal.

He tore a tendon in his foot as he kicked burning Ahmed.

Stephen, 44, of Glasgow, was waiting to pick up relatives when he knocked Ahmed
to the ground. He said: "This means the world to us. It's affected us all in
different ways and now we want to get on with our lives."

Heating engineer Michael Kerr, of Denny, Stirlingshire, who was returning from
holiday in Menorca, suffered a broken leg tackling the bombers.

The dad-of-two, 43, said: "I didn't stop to think before I rushed in to help and
I hope others would do the same in that position."

Check-in attendant Michael McDonald also helped wrestle one of the terrorists to
the ground while airport ambassador Henry held off one of them with a fire
extinguisher.

Sergeant Campbell met off duty PC Ferguson, who was at the airport to meet
relatives, and the pair eventually brought down and arrested the bombers.

Depute first minister Sturgeon said: "The actions of these men represent deeply
impressive conduct and bravery.

"Collectively, they demonstrate how ordinar y people doing how ordinary people
doing ordinary things can sometimes reveal extraordinary courage and resilience
in extremely dangerous circumstances."

Strathclyde Police chief constable Stephen House said: "If it was not for the
bravery of the people being awarded today, there would have been disastrous
consequences that would still be felt now."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEROES: From left, Henry Lambie, Stephen Clarkson, Michael McDonald,
Sgt Torquil Campbell, PC Stewart Ferguson, Michael Kerr and Alexander Mcllveen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HEROES HONOURED;
Magnificent seven receive Queen's bravery award

BYLINE: LYNN JOLLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words


SEVEN heroes who played crucial roles in foiling the terror attack on Glasgow
Airport received bravery awards yesterday in front of their proud families.

The magnificent seven received the Queen's Commendation for Bravery at a
ceremony hosted by Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon in Edinburgh.

Retired police sergeant Torquil Campbell, from Renfrew, and PC Stewart Ferguson,
from Paisley, were among those who were honoured.

They were joined by Glasgow Airport workers Henry Lambie, from Paisley, and
Michael McDonald; as well as taxi driver Alexander McIlveen; Stephen Clarkson,
who was at the airport to collect relatives and Michael Kerr, who was returning
from a holiday.

Guy Clark, Lord Lieutenant of Renfrewshire, was among the guests who were there
to pay tribute to the airport heroes.

And Ms Sturgeon said each of them can be proud of their actions that fateful day
back on June 30, 2007.

She told the Paisley Daily Express: "The immense gratitude and admiration of
everyone in Scotland goes to those whose courageous actions helped to avert a
major disaster.

"It is fitting that those who showed such courage and commitment to public
safety should be honoured in this way. We must never forget how privileged we
are to have such dedicated emergency professionals and volunteers on our side."

The airport attack was mounted by two bombers who drove a burning Jeep filled
with home-made explosives into the main terminal building.

Terror came to Paisley's doorstep as Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdulla, who worked at
the town's Royal Alexandra Hospital, and his accomplice Kafeel Ahmed staged the
car bomb attack.

Ahmed, 28, was engulfed by flames during the attack and died from his injuries a
month later.

Abdulla, 29, was jailed for at least 32 years at Woolwich Crown Court after he
was found guilty of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions.

Sergeant Campbell was just 50 yards away from the Jeep when it crashed into the
airport building and was attacked by Abdulla as flames ripped through the
vehicle.

When Ahmed emerged from the Jeep with his body engulfed by flames, PC Ferguson
used a fire extinguisher in a bid to save the terrorist's life.

Former fireman Mr Lambie also played a hero's role after he heard a loud bang
and headed towards the Jeep as it lay stuck in the main doors of the terminal.

He started to evacuate the building and helped to tackle the blaze.

Stephen House, Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, said that, if it was not
for the bravery of the people being honoured at yesterday's ceremony, there
would have been "disastrous consequences that would still be felt now."

He added: "The courage shown by all of my officers, especially Sergeant Campbell
and PC Ferguson, can never be underestimated and I have nothing but admiration
and gratitude for them and the others.

"Their actions that day potentially saved the lives of many and it is only
fitting that we recognise this."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BRAVE: Sergeant Torquil Campbell (left) and PC Stewart Ferguson were
among those honoured at yesterday's ceremony

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tests raise alarm over security at Sellafield;
Nuclear sites vulnerable to attack by terrorists ; Tests raise Sellafield alarm

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill ;Robin Pagnamenta

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,10

LENGTH: 600 words


A top secret anti-terror review is under way at Britain's nuclear power plants
after the discovery of security weaknesses at the giant Sellafield reprocessing
site.

The Times understands that an urgent assessment is being carried out by HM
Inspectorate of Constabulary, which has been extended to cover protection of
pipelines, oil refineries and other key elements of the critical national
infrastructure.

But the focus is on Sellafield, in Cumbria, where construction of a bunker to
store 100 tonnes of raw plutonium was completed this year.

The £118 million facility, which holds enough plutonium to build thousands of
nuclear bombs, makes the plant an even greater target for a potential terrorist
attack.

Scotland Yard's Counter-terrorism Command and MI5, which operates the Centre for
the Protection of National Infrastructure, have been consulted during the review
process.

The police watchdog's document, which is nearing completion, will have a
restricted circulation among ministers, police chiefs and security officials.

It is understood that ministers were so concerned about the potential security
weakness at Sellafield that they demanded that the review be widened. One source
described it as "an extremely sensitive piece of work".

Details of what sparked the review have not been disclosed but security sources
denied that there had been any breach at Sellafield by intruders. The Times
understands that concerns about protecting the plant could have come to light
during a "red team exercise", when special forces pose as terrorists or foreign
agents. Troops carry out such exercises regularly to test security at large
infrastructure facilities and other potential targets.

The East London al-Qaeda cell that plotted in 2006 to blow up transatlantic
airliners in midflight also had in its possession an alternative target list of
nuclear power stations, oil and gas terminals and undersea pipelines.

One of the gang, Assad Sarwar, had compiled the second hitlist that included an
annotated diagram of the layout of the Bacton gas terminal in Norfolk and
detailed plans of the Coryton oil refinery in Essex.

This month the WikiLeaks website was criticised when it published a secret list
of industrial and civil assets around the world that the United States believes
require high levels of protection. But it is Britain's huge, and growing, stock
of plutonium that is the big security problem for the Government.

It is public knowledge that it is housed in the discreetly named Sellafield
Product and Residues Store, which was opened in May.

The bunker, which looks like an anonymous warehouse, is made of 36,000 cubic
meters of concrete and the same amount of steel as the Eiffel Tower. It took 500
construction workers five years to build and has the largest declared plutonium
stockpile in the world. The US and Russia may hold more but they have never
admitted it.

Most of the plutonium contained here is a by-product of the reprocessing of
spent nuclear fuel after it has been used to generate electricity.

France and Japan recycle their plutonium by making a fuel mixed with uranium
that can be burnt in power stations. This generates electricity and is the most
efficient way of disposing of plutonium. In Britain, however, no government has
been willing to broach the subject. The only other option would be to build a
permanent underground store at huge cost.

The Civil Nuclear Constabulary, the armed police force that guards British
nuclear plants, refused to comment on the review .

The Department of Energy and Climate Change said: "Security arrangements are
kept under constant review."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

Yemen arrests terror suspect after attack on US citizens

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni newspaper Yemen Observer
website on 16 December

[Report by Mohammed al-Kibsi: "Yemeni Police Arrest Al-Qa'idah Terrorist, Foil
Terror Attack"]

The police captured a 28 year old Jordanian suspected of being a member of al-
Qa'idah.

They captured him following an explosive bomb went off under a pick-up truck
carrying US citizens in the Hadda Street area.

The bomb was detonated at 8:30 Wednesday night [as received] near a restaurant
frequented by foreign nationals.

Eye witnesses said that they saw parts of the vehicle flying off the car but no
one was injured.

The police found four different identity cards with the suspect. They also found
a gun and some explosives but did not find the detonator used for exploding the
bomb.

Source: Yemen Observer website, Sanaa, in English 16 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

Syria condemns terrorist attacks in Iran's Chabahar

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

[Syria Strongly Condemns Chabahar Terrorist Attacks]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Syrian Arab Republic strongly condemns Yesterday's two
terrorist attacks in the city of Chabahar in the sisterly Islamic Republic of
Iran, which led to the death and injury of a big number of innocent people,
among them were children and women, an official source at the Syrian Foreign
Ministry saidon Thursday.

The source, in a statement to SANA, added, "Syria, while it voices its full
support to Iran's stance in fighting terrorism, reiterates its full
condemnationof any terrorist act and expresses its sincerest condolences to the
leadership and people of the Islamic Republic of Iran and to the families of the
innocent victims."

39Iranians were martyred and 55 others injured inWednesday's two terrorist
attacksin the Iranian southern city of Chabahar, in the Province of Sistan and
Baluchestan.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 16 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

Russian official says series of terror attacks thwarted in Bashkortostan

LENGTH: 499 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Ufa, 16 December: The UFSB [Federal Security Service Directorate] for
Bashkortostan prevented a series of terrorist attacks that had been planned to
target crowded areas in the republic this summer, the head of the directorate
Viktor Palagin said at a news conference at the press centre of the
Interfax-Volga news agency in Ufa on Thursday [16 December].

According to Palagin, 18 improvised explosive devices were found and seized
during special operations. Terrorists "planned to blow up one of the district
police departments, seize weapons, carry out at least 18 explosions in public
places and on transport in order to paralyse the republic, and go to Afghanistan
through Kazakhstan".

The head of the directorate noted that the person who had made the explosive
devices was already testing them in abandoned houses and barns to determine
their impact and power.

In addition, five arms caches and two suspected terrorist camps were found in
Bashkortostan during the summer.

"The caches contained small arms, terrorist equipment, clothing, long term
storage food, gas cylinders. Some people associated with them have been
detained, they are giving testimony, there will be a court hearing," Palagin
said.

According to him, the activities of clandestine structures of the international
terrorist organization Hizb-ut-Tahrir were stopped in the republic this year,
and 12 people have been brought to criminal responsibility.

The so-called Oktyabrskiy, Chishminskiy and Askinskiy "jamaats" were also
neutralized, eight people have been arrested, Palagin said.

The head of the directorate expressed regret over the fact that the courts
considering the cases of members of religious extremist underground
organizations often limited the punishment to suspended sentences.

"Previously, the courts sentenced them to 7-12 years, and most of the prisoners
started to mend their ways. In recent years, none of those who received
suspended sentences started to mend their ways. We believe that the courts
simply underestimate the threat posed by terrorist organizations," he said.

In order to prevent extremism and terrorism, the directorate has started to give
warnings, but it is "all down to individuals: for one person it is enough to
invite him and speak to him, he will understand everything, while that's useless
with others," the head of the directorate said.

According to him, Bashkortostan's Federal Security Service Directorate works
with the church and mosques, but this is [only] effective "until they (potential
terrorists - Interfax) join jihad".

The head of the directorate noted that the current disagreement between the
Central Spiritual Administration of Muslims and the Spiritual Administration of
Muslims of Bashkortostan does not allow to use training facilities and train
imams.

"No one is going to take away their sovereignty, they should get closer," he
thinks.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1116 gmt 16 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

NUCLEAR SITE IS TERRORIST ATTACK RISK;
SECURITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 133 words


NUCLEAR power plant security is being urgently reviewed after Sellafield was
found to be vulnerable to a terrorist attack. Special forces carrying out "red
team exercises" to test security at highprofile targets are thought to have
exposed flaws.

A pounds 118million bunker capable of storing enough material to build thousands
of nuclear bombs has just been built at the Cumbrian plant.

The policing watchdog, in consultation with MI5, will now carry out a review to
boost protection of the site, to prevent a "terrorist spectacular".

But the findings will only be circulated among a group of police chiefs,
ministers and spooks.

An al-Qaeda cell caught plotting to blow up jets in 2006 also had nuclear sites
on its hit-list.

A G o v e r n m e n t spokesman yesterday declined to comment "on security".

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

NUKE SITE TERRORIST ATTACK RISK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 113 words


NUCLEAR power plant security is being urgently reviewed after Sellafield was
found to be vulnerable to a terrorist attack.

Special forces carrying out "red team exercises" to test security at
high-profile targets are thought to have exposed flaws.

A new pounds 118million bunker capable of storing enough material to build
thousands of nuclear bombs has just been built at the Cumbrian plant.

The policing watchdog will now carry out a review to boost protection at the
site to prevent a "terrorist spectacular".

An al-Qaeda cell caught plotting to blow up jets in 2006 also had nuclear sites
and oil refineries on its hit-list.

A Government spokesman declined to comment "on security".

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Chabahar terror attack aimed at Islam - Iran MP

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news channel Press TV website on 16
December

A lawmaker for Iran's Sistan-Baluchestan Province has condemned the Wednesday
[15 December] bomb attack in the region as aimed at undermining the Islamic
establishment in the country.

"The enemies have long been fuelling sectarian conflicts in Pakistan and intend
to spread the security crisis inside Iran," Mowlavi Nazir Ahmad Salami told IRNA
on Wednesday.

"Groups who engage in such terrorist and criminal acts are backed by Israel and
the United States, and their final goal is afflicting Islam and the Islamic
Republic establishment [in Iran]."

The lawmaker said the enemies are attempting to drag the religious communities
in the country into a confrontation.

"But the Iranian people are well aware and have reached political maturity and
thus will never be ensnared by the enemy," he emphasized.

"Certainly, the Shi'i and Sunni Muslims in this province (Sistan-Baluchestan)
are determined to maintain solidarity among them and will confront such
currents," Salami noted.

On December 15, terrorists targeted a crowd of Shi'i mourners marking the
anniversary of the martyrdom of Imam Husayn (PBUH) - the third Shi'i Imam and
the grandson of the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) - in the southeastern city of
Chabahar.

At least 33 people lost their lives in the massive bomb explosion which also
left more than 95 others injured.

Iranian Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad Najjar blamed the terrorist attack on
"a number of terrorists that are being trained beyond [Iran's] eastern borders
in Pakistan."

He said that the terrorists received equipment and training from foreign
elements, adding that the Islamic Republic has warned Pakistan against providing
a haven for terrorists.

Meanwhile, Chabahar governor Ali Bateni said security forces have arrested one
of the perpetrators of the terrorist attack.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0828 gmt 16 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Pakistan condemns terrorist attack in Iran

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 17 December: Pakistan on Friday [17 December] strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in the port City of Chabahar in Iran leading martyrdom of 39
innocent persons and injuring more than 80.

Foreign Office Spokesman Abdul Basit in a statement issued here said: "The
Government of Pakistan expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences with the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the bereaved families."

The spokesman said: "The perpetrators of this heinous crime are common enemies
of both Iran and Pakistan."

Referring its close brotherly ties with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan
also expressed its resolve and commitment to closely cooperate with Iran to
defeat the menace of terrorism.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1132gmt
17 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 17, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man tells of terror after witnessing shark attack;
SHAKEN UP: KEEN SNORKELLER SAW ONE OF FOUR INCIDENTS

BYLINE: ALAN THOMPSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 489 words


A holidaymaker has spoken of his horror after witnessing one of four shark
attacks in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el Sheikh.

Keen snorkeller Neil Hammond was walking along the seafront in the Baron Palms
resort when he heard screams and shouts coming from the sea, less than 100 yards
offshore.

The 66-year-old looked out to see two swimmers racing back to the shore and a
third man on his own in the water with the sea around him turning red.

Mr Hammond, from Ab Kettleby, near Melton, said: "The two swimmers were going so
fast it was like they were Olympic athletes. Their hands were going around like
windmills.

"Another man had been left out on his own in the water.

"Everyone was shouting and screaming and I could see the water was turning red.

BADLY INJURED "I don't think I'll ever forget the pure panic. It was horrific
and just like the film Jaws."

The man, thought to be one of two Russian holidaymakers injured in a recent
spate of shark attacks at the resort, was rescued by a speedboat which raced to
his aid.

Mr Hammond said: "The people in the speedboat grabbed the man and pulled him
into the boat. He was alive but had obviously been badly injured because of the
amount of blood there.

"We could easily have been in there snorkelling. It could have been any one of
us and it's quite possible that I won't ever snorkel around that area again."

Mr Hammond was on his tenth trip to the country with wife June, 65, and some
friends, when he witnessed the attack on December 1. The attacks on three
Russians and a Ukrainian prompted Egyptian authorities to close the beaches.

However, they were re-opened several days later. After swimmers returned to the
water, a 70-year-old German woman was killed while she was snorkelling in the
Red Sea.

Mr and Mrs Hammond, who spent 11 days in the resort, have always gone
snorkelling in Sharm el Sheikh, including in Shark's Bay where the attacks took
place.

Mrs Hammond said: "Notes were sent round to the hotels after the attack Neil
witnessed saying the beaches were closed for 72 hours. "But the next day there
were still people in the water despite the Egyptian people trying to get them
back onto the shore.

"The German woman was killed after they re-opened the beaches. "There was a
feeling of disbelief.

"I think I'll be hard pushed to go snorkelling there again. It's just something
that's never happened before.

"They caught and killed a couple of sharks, but how do you know you've got the
right ones? "The Egyptians were at a loss because all watersports were cancelled
and how long do you close the beaches for?" Shark experts investigating the
series of attacks have recommended banning feeding fish and dumping carcasses in
the water.

They also suggested building observation towers on the beach at Sharm el-Sheikh
and running naval patrols to alert tourists against attacks.

They have said the beaches should not re-open until the patrols and observation
towers are up and running.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESORT: Sharm el Sheikh
PANIC: Neil and June Hammond pictured at Sharm el Sheikh where Mr Hammond
witnessed an attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2010 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

Iranian Sunnis hold rally to condemn "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian radio on 18 December

[Presenter] Sunni fellow countrymen held a rally in Chabahar to condemn the
terrorist crime on Tasu'a of Husayn [15 December] in the city. The demonstrators
reiterated their readiness for safeguarding the ideals of the Islamic Revolution
and country's borders. At the same times, they called on officials to punish
those behind this terrorist attack which took place with the aim of dividing
Sunnis and Shi'is.

Mowlavi Abdolrahman Mollazehi, a Sunni cleric in the region, told the gathering
of demonstrators that the Iranian nation's enemies who have failed in various
scenes attempt to divide the consolidated ranks of Shi'is and Sunnis. They
[enemies] should however know that the people of the region are vigilant and
they [enemies] would be forced to take their wishes to grave.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, in Persian 1030 gmt 18
Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

Iran MPs call for filing cases with international bodies on "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 18 December: Iranian parliamentarians called for filing legal cases with
international organizations on the recent terrorist attack on Tasu'a mourners in
the city of Chabahar.

In a statement on Saturday [18 December], members of the Human Rights Committee
of the Parliament (Majlis) condemned the terrorist attack and called on the
Iranian Foreign Ministry to frankly file legal cases with international human
rights bodies as well as the United Nations and retain them as open until the
ultimate settlement of all black cases of crimes and assassinations.

The statement further pointed to the martyrdom of 38 Iranians who were taking
part in the mourning ceremony for the 3rd Shi'i Imam Husayn (AS) in the
southeastern city of Chabahar in Sistan and Baluchestan province. Condemning the
silence of human rights bodies and the Untied Nations regarding the supports by
the British intelligence services as well as the CIA and Mossad for terrorist
groups in Iran, it said it was high time that such circles abandoned political
games under the cover of human rights support.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1030 gmt 18 Dec
10

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 20, 2010 Monday

Russia: Chechen law enforcers say slain man wanted to stage terrorist attack

LENGTH: 180 words


Chechen law enforcers have said that a man, killed in Chechnya's Sunzhenskiy
District, when he put up armed resistance to policemen on 18 December, intended
to stage a terrorist attack, the Kavkazskiy Uzel website reported on 20
December.

The website noted that on the same day, the inauguration of a transport junction
was held on the Kavkaz federal highway attended by a number of high-ranking
Chechen officials.

"A weapon, ammunition and explosives found inside a car make us to assume that
he was preparing a large-scale terrorist attack. This can be proved by the fact
that the incident took place near Assinovskiy - literally ahead of the start of
the festive opening ceremony of the two-level transport junction," the website
was told at the republic's law enforcement agencies.

Prime Minister Odes Baysultanov, parliament Speaker Dukuvakha Abdurakhmanov,
other ministers and high-ranking officials attended the opening ceremony, the
website noted, adding that an investigation was under way to identity the slain
man.

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 20 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday

Al-Arabiya TV reports on UK anti-terror moves, fear of Mumbai-type attack

LENGTH: 389 words


Dubai Al-Arabiya Television in Arabic at 1307 gmt on 20 December carries the
following announcer-read report: "The British police have announced the arrest
of 12 people in a large-scale anti-terrorism campaign. They also noted that they
arrested five people in Cardiff, Wales; four others in Stoke, central England;
and three more in London. The police added that they were all arrested on
suspicion of committing, preparing, or inciting an act of terror in Britain."

Immediately afterward, the channel carries a live satellite interview with
journalist Husni al-Imam, from London. Asked why people use Britain to launch
attacks, Al-Imam says: "Britain has been strongly criticized since the 1980s for
becoming Londonstan [in reference to Pakistan and Afghanistan]. There were
allegations that London hosted such groups so as to ward off their evil deeds
and acts of terror. The British Government denied these allegations. There were
many examples, such as Abu-Hamzah, Umar Bakri, and others. In fact, following
the 11 September terrorist attacks in the United States, and later the 7 July
terrorist attack in London, the British Government might have radically changed
its position. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair noted then that the rules
of the game had changed. However, the documents leaked by WikiLeaks noted that
after the 7 July incidents, Britain has been struggling to combat extremism by
fundamentalist and terrorist groups in Britain."

Asked if the Stockholm bomber justifies the fears expressed by some people that
these groups use Britain to launch further attacks in Europe, Al-Imam says:
"There are strong fears that cause concern, especially after what happened in
Stockholm, given that the bomber used to live in Luton, near London." He adds:
"According to media leaks, the arrest of this group today came as a result of
the fear that bombings similar to the Mumbai attacks might occur."

Asked about the consequences of these fears, Al-Imam says: "First is the
consolidation of intelligence operations. We all know that the British MI5 is
very active. Second is the placing of these groups under surveillance and
monitoring their activities in terms of teaching and indoctrination. I think
that the British Government has clearly failed in this respect."

Source: Al-Arabiya TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1307 gmt 20 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday

Suspects held over alleged plans for terrorist attack: Arrests in London,
Cardiff, Stoke and Birmingham Police enter homes wearing chemical suits

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 686 words


Five men in Cardiff were among 12 arrested yesterday by counter-terrorism
detectives acting to prevent an alleged plot to attack multiple targets in the
UK.

Three of the suspects were detained early yesterday morning in Riverside in
Cardiff, an area close to the Millennium Stadium with a large Bangladeshi
community. Two others were arrested in Ely, a largely white working-class area.

Councillors, who were told of the arrests, said police had indicated that the
men seized were British nationals of Bangladeshi descent. The men are believed
to be aged between 23 and 28.

The other arrests were made in London, Stoke-on-Trent and Birmingham.

In Riverside, Cardiff police attention focused on a seven-bedroom Victorian
house, understood to be occupied by a middle-aged couple who run a take-away
restaurant, and their two sons. It is not clear whether any family members were
among those arrested.

Officers who were carrying out a search of the property also seized a Mercedes
estate car.

Neighbour Marc Davies, 26, said: "I was driving to work when I saw police all
suited up - it looked like they were wearing chemical suits."

"There were police everywhere, there were vans parked up on the side of the road
and it looked all go.

"I was absolutely shocked, this is a normal part of Cardiff."

Next door neighbour, Avtar Singh, said: "I'm very surprised . . . They are in
their 50s and run a restaurant. I know them to say hello to in the street.
They've lived here for around six or seven years.

"I was fast asleep when the police arrived. I woke up at 7am and there were all
flashing lights outside."

Greg Maciaj, the other next door neighbour, said he had done some building work
for the couple at their restaurant. "They are lovely people, decent people, and
very friendly," he said.

Ward councillor Mohammed-Sarul Islam said there had been some trouble in recent
months with young local people promoting radical views at local mosques. There
had also been some trouble around the time of the general election in May, he
said, when some election posters had been vandalised, but there was no violence.

Islam said the community would have no sympathy for anyone with extreme Islamist
views: "This is a peaceful community and we are shocked that there seem to be
idiots like this," he added. Islam said he had been told the men were all
British nationals.

Another councillor Ramesh Patel said he had been told by police that the
majority" of those arrested were from the Bangladeshi community.

Neighbours said a police raid also took place at a flat above a takeaway
restaurant in Ely, two miles from the house in Neville Street. A young couple in
their 20s or early 30s live there, according to neighbours.

Eyewitnesses did not see any arrests being made at the address, which also
occurred in the early hours of yesterday morning.

One shopkeeper, who runs a convenience store across the road from the flat said
he was just lifting his shutters at around 5.30am when he saw 20 people outside
the door of the flat.

They knocked on the door but broke it down when there was no answer. In Cardiff
city centre there were fears that crowded shopping centres and bars could have
been a terrorist target. Some shopkeepers said there had been rumours ahead of
the arrests that the city could be under threat.

A highly-placed source in the police operation said that the alleged plot was
targeting shopping areas in the West Midlands and important sites in London.
There has been no indication that locations in Cardiff were an intended target.
South Wales police refused to comment saying it was an anti-terrorist operation
mounted by the West Midlands force.

Forensic searches in Stoke-on-Trent were centred on Grove Street, Cobridge,
where more than a dozen police vehicles had gathered.

Officers were present inside three end-terrace properties and a group of four
uniformed police were seen entering a fourth house. Police activity was also
reported to be under way in the Tunstall and Shelton areas of the city.

Captions:

The street in Stoke where three addresses were raided by anti-terrorism officers
Photograph: Lindsey Parnaby/Newsteam

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday

Yard Boss Tells Of Terror Attack Fear

SECTION: A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 382 words


BRITAIN'S top counter terrorism officer said last night that the arrest of 12
suspects in four cities over fears they were preparing to launch an attack was
"absolutely necessary".

Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner John Yates warned searches of homes in
London, Cardiff, Stoke and Birmingham could take days to complete as police
prepare to question the men.

He said the case highlighted how the public must remain vigilant and urged
anyone who witnesses suspicious activity to report it as the national threat
level remains severe.

Speaking outside New Scotland Yard, Mr Yates said: "With the information we
have, I believe today's arrests were absolutely necessary in order to keep the
public safe."

The 12 suspects, aged between 17 and 28 and at least five of whom are of
Bangladeshi origin, were arrested during 5am raids at homes in London,
Stoke-on-Trent, Birmingham and Cardiff at 5am. Police swooped over fears the
group were ramping up their activities after months of surveillance and
monitoring by counter terrorism officers and colleagues at MI5.

Sources said they were investigating if the gang were inspired by al Qaida, but
played down speculation they may have been planning a Christmas or New Year bomb
attack.

They said that although police have gathered enough information to fear the
suspects pose a threat, they remain unclear about exactly what their intentions
may have been.

Officials said the operation was not linked to the recent failed Stockholm
suicide bombing or the Yemen al Qaida printer bomb plot and was not modelled on
the Mumbai commando-style atrocity. Police officers undertaking the raids were
unarmed, suggesting police had no information that the men had guns, explosive
devices or other potential weapons.

The operation was led by West Midlands Police's counter terrorism unit,
supported by Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command, South Wales Police and
Staffordshire Police.

All 12 suspects were detained on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of an act of terrorism in Britain.

Iraqi officials claimed last week that captured insurgents believed the
Stockholm bombing was part of a series of Christmas season attacks. But  British
and German officials insisted there were no specific threats to their countries
over the festive period.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday

AU chief "strongly" condemns "terror attack" in Kenyan capital

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 22 December: The African Union Commission chairperson, Dr Jean
Ping, has strongly condemned the terrorist attack in Nairobi bus station that
claims lives and left many others wounded on Monday [20 December].

According to the press statement the AU sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on
Wednesday [21 December], the bomb blast at the bus station led to the killing
and wounding of innocent civilians. The chairperson condemned strongly the
cowardly terrorist attack which cannot be justified under any circumstances.

Ping extended his condolences to the families of those who have lost their
lives, and prays for the speedy recovery of those wounded during the attack. He
affirmed the determination of the AU to combat terrorism and to continue to
support the efforts being deployed by member states in this respect.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 22 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     December 24, 2010 Friday 01:13 PM GMT

Mumbai police hunt 'terror attackers'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


Police are searching India's financial capital for four men who authorities
believe entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack.

A terror alert was issued for the city, where a three-day terrorist siege in
2008 killed 166 people.

Despite checkpoints and some road closures, traffic and activity in most of
Mumbai was normal today.

Police have received credible information that at least four men belonging to
the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group have entered the city and were
planning to strike during the holiday season, said Himanshu Roy, joint police
commissioner of Mumbai Police.

India blames Lashkar for the 2008 assaults.

"The four men are planning violent attacks that are going to cause destruction,"
Roy said. "The four have recently arrived in Mumbai. We believe the threat is
serious."

Pakistani officials could not immediately be reached for comment.

Police set up checkpoints along major roads in the city, put additional men on
patrol duty at public places and released computer photographs of the four
suspects.

Roads were also closed near the Taj Mahal hotel and Mumbai's landmark Gateway of
India. Mumbai is also home to Bollywood, the country's prolific film industry.

Roy identified the four men but said their nationalities were not known.

In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they
arrested two Indian men, allegedly preparing to hit several targets in the city.

Then in September, police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular
Hindu festival after a tip off that two Islamist militants were planning a
terror strike.

India has called on Pakistan to crack down on terrorists thought to be operating
from their soil. Lashkar-e-Taiba is banned by Pakistan's government but it still
thought to have support in Pakistan's powerful military and intelligence
community.

In the 2008 attack, several gunmen laid siege to two luxury hotels - including
the Taj Mahal - a Jewish centre, a popular restaurant and Mumbai's crowded main
train station. The lone surviving gunman was captured and earlier this year
sentenced to death.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2010 Saturday

Kenyan security forces on alert over possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 1125 words


Text of report by Juma Kwayera entitled "Police on high alert over possible
terror attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 25 December; subheadings as published

Security agencies are on red alert following a new warning more and deadlier
terrorist attacks are imminent during this festive season.

Consequently, The Standard On Saturday has reliably learnt intelligence
personnel in the military, police, and national spy agency have had their annual
leaves cancelled after last Monday grenade attack on a Kampala-bound bus.
According to sources, security focus is now on aliens.

While the country experiences a high influx of illegal migrants, the police who
have taken the flak for failing to detect and prevent crime are on their part
turning the heat on their employer, the government, which they accuse of
under-funding despite increased insecurity.

However, opinion remains divided over whether the frequency of grenade attacks
is a result of lack of resources. A senior military intelligence officer blames
"security leaks" on general apathy, not resources.

Sporadic attacks

"Apart from South Africa and Egypt, Kenya has the best intelligence service in
Africa. At the moment we are in dilemma about how to respond to terrorist
threats. Any form of retaliation has the potential to escalate the sporadic
attacks into a full scale regional conflict that will suck in Arab countries
sympathetic to Al Shabab's cause," says the officer, who preferred anonymity for
fear of reprisals.

Police Spokesman Eric Kiraithe says government failure to match surveillance and
intelligence gathering with increased population that consists a rising
proportion of foreigners has spread thin the police force following years of a
hiring freeze and a high turnover of personnel.

Kiraithe concedes security agencies are hamstrung; hence lag behind terror
groups' criminal activities. The inability of the police to crack down on
serious crime has over the past year elicited the public concern that ineptitude
and corruption have enabled the terrorist gangs to thrive on Kenyan soil.

"Salaries alone cannot turn around the performance of the police. We need
substantive reforms that go beyond salaries and good laws. We appreciate we have
a new constitution, but a good law should be the icing on the cake," says the
spokesman.

The grenade explosion on a Kampala-bound bus in which three people died and 26
were injured was the eleventh incident this year, averaging one attack a month.

The attack illustrated further to an established pattern of terror acts - when
the nation's attention is diverted from security matters to heightened political
activities or festivities.

The latest attack has thrown forced security machinery into a spin, as the
public accuses the police of ineptitude for failing to detect the crime in
advance. However, Kiraithe accuses decision-makers in government of getting
national security priorities upside down.

Illegal immigrants

"In every crime report, we talk about increased illegal immigrants. We talk
about the need for the size of the police force to match the population. We are
not talking personnel, but also the growth in resource allocation, which must
match the growth of crime," says Kiraithe.

Prime Minister Raila Odinga, during the prime minister's time in parliament,
admitted the force lacks requisite tools and funding to cope with the spiralling
terror-related crimes, corroborated Kiraithe's sentiments.

With Kenyans already in a carnival mood, security agencies warn that terrorists
strike when security issues are not a priority. Our intelligence sources
disclosed that, with the public piling pressure for decisive action foreign
criminals, the government is reviewing its options.

Agreeing that the security situation is grim, sources in the three agencies told
The Standard On Saturday the Government is considering a review of various
options to counteract the Al Shabab threat.

However, an international security expert, Opiyo Ododa, while acknowledging
Kenya's precarious position, says military retaliation would only escalate a
volatile situation.

"Terrorism trends in Kenya and the wider East Africa suggest that terrorists
strike when security matters are not a priority. During Christmas festivities
people throw caution to the wind as they huddle in worship centres to celebrate.
There are parties, communal gatherings, and entertainment activities to
commemorate the occasion," says Ododa, a researcher and lecturer at the
International Centre for Security Studies at the National Defence College at
Karen, Nairobi.

The Kampala twin attacks on restaurants in July demonstrate how the terrors
attacks are planned with huge congregations in mind. The strikes were undertaken
during the final match of World Cup tournament in South Africa, which claimed 76
lives and injured more than 100 people, who were watching the match at public
fora in Uganda.

The attacks precipitated international travel alerts that warned visitors
against congested public places such as political rallies, religious assemblies
or cinemas. Such an alert was sent out by the US embassy in Kenya. The advisory
that expired on 22 October warned of the looming spectre of intensified
terrorist attacks. Since the 11 July bombings in Uganda, for which the
Somalia-based Al-Shabab terrorist group has claimed responsibility, there have
been increased threats against public areas across East Africa," the advisory
reads, a warning Ododa says is still valid heading into the Christmas season.

Ododa says Kenyans should be on alert in places such as supermarkets, churches,
bus termini, and banks that are increasingly becoming crowded.

The warning is informed by a grenade attack in a Karatina supermarket early in
the first quarter of the year. Although there were no casualties, there was a
state of alarm when around the same time police in Nairobi intercepted an
explosive being ferried to Nakuru in public service vehicle.

A few months later, a man was intercepted with detonators in a Garissa-bound bus
during a high alert ahead of the arrival of US Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton. This before two grenade explosions occurred in Mombasa's crime-infested
Kongowea shantytown. The most devastating grenade attacks occurred in the
countdown to the constitutional referendum last August. In the triple strikes on
a "No" campaign rally at Uhuru Park, three people died and scores were injured.
Before the referendum, a church leader was arrested in Limuru with 12
detonators.

The latest in a series of grenade attacks were early this month's attacks on
police officers in Kasarani and Eastleigh estates in Nairobi in which three
people were killed.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 25 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               December 26, 2010

European terror attack feared after fighters quit Lebanon base

BYLINE: Mitchell Prothero Beirut

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 602 words


Intelligence services in the the Middle East and Europe are scrambling to track
down more than two dozen fighters linked to al-Qaida who recently left their
base in southern Lebanon.

The missing men are thought to have gone to Europe by a newly established route
through Syria, Turkey and the Balkans, and intelligence sources in Lebanon warn
that the group seems to be operational and could be planning attacks in Europe
in the holiday season.

"Yes, they have left the camp," said Munir al-Maqda, a senior Palestine
Liberation Organisation official in the Ain el-Hilweh refugee camp, where the
fighters had been hiding for the past few years. Because the Lebanese army is
not allowed to enter the country's 13 Palestinian refugee camps, militants have
long sought refuge inside them. Two Lebanese intelligence service officials -
who could only speak off the record - said Lebanon was co-operating with
European intelligence services to hunt the militants, who are described as
"extremely dangerous".

The militants, who based themselves in an area on the outskirts of Ain el-Hilweh
- Lebanon's largest and most densely populated refugee camp, with more than
50,000 people living within a square mile - had been a disparate group of
freelance fighters and jihadists thought to have carried out a number of attacks
in Lebanon over the last five years against the Lebanese army, Christian
districts and UN peacekeepers in southern Lebanon.

Yesterday a senior militant commander, Ghandi al-Sahmarani, was found killed on
the outskirts of the camp. Islamist sources blamed Fatah officials in charge of
security, pointing to a series of assassinations of Islamic militants by
mainstream security forces in Ain el-Hilweh over the past few years intended to
pressure militants into surrendering to the authorities or to quit their camp
haven.

Stephen Tankel, of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, has done
research in Ain el-Hilweh and describes the militants who have now left as
potentially dangerous because of their lack of overall control. This means that
the group are receptive to outside direction, and leaves them open to new ideas
and strategies, such as becoming operational in Europe as their options in
Lebanon dwindle, Tankel said.

"They may not have been super-organised, but that does not mean they are not
potentially dangerous," he said. "First, a number of them fought in Iraq, where
they will have gained combat experience and, perhaps, some explosives expertise.
Second, it's safe to assume that many of them are prepared to undertake
'martyrdom' operations. That said, they would benefit from guidance in terms of
targets [choosing and surveying them] and logistical support in Europe."

In view of their "street credibility" among European jihadists, Tankel suggested
that the group might be better able to operate successfully in Europe than in
Lebanon, where they were closely monitored, not only by the intelligence
services but by the Shia militant group Hezbollah, which is bitterly opposed to
al-Qaida's Sunni Muslim ideology.

One European Union intelligence official confirmed that an operation to hunt
down Arab fighters from Lebanon was under way, but could not link them to recent
concerns about holiday attacks by al-Qaida. "We have received warnings of a
significant militant plot in Europe during the holidays and we have been warned
about these missing fighters from Lebanon," the official said. "But we wish we
knew if the two threats were related."

Captions:

Militant leader Ghandi al-Sahmarani was found assassinated yesterday near the
Ain el-Hilweh refugee camp in Lebanon.

Reuters


LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Terrorist attacks kill 80 people in two continents as police seize Somali gang

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 657 words


TERRORISTS killed at least 80 people on two continents this weekend as European
police swooped on a Somali gang alleged to have been plotting an attack in the
Netherlands.

Bombings were reported in Pakistan and Nigeria, while 12 African men were
arrested in Rotterdam after a tip-off from the Dutch intelligence service.

The bust in the Netherlands  second city caught 12 men aged from 19 to 48.
Security officials said they were planning an attack in the near future, but
declined to give details of where this might be.

Security across Europe is often stepped up during the festive season, and
vigilance has been increased this year after the Nigerian  underpants bomber
attempted to bring down a plane over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009. The suicide
bombing in Sweden and attacks on two embassies in Rome have also heightened
concerns.

Six of the arrested Somalis live in Rotterdam, five have no permanent address
and one resides in Denmark, Dutch authorities said.

France has also beefed up its security arrangements, calling in plain-clothed
police patrols to guard tourist sites through the festive period, with 6000
additional police drafted in for Hogmanay.

As international attention was focused by the latest spate of activity, Britain
condemned the female bomber believed to be responsible for the Pakistan
explosion.

The burka-clad woman is thought to have claimed at least 43 lives and injured a
further 100 people in a suicide attack on Friday against a crowd of people
queueing for food at an aid distribution centre.

The death toll from the blast, in the town of Khar, close to the Afghan border
where the Taliban and al-Qaeda have strongholds, is expected to grow  as some of
the wounded succumb to their injuries.

Foreign Office minister Alistair  Burt said the atrocity reinforced the need for
international co-operation against terror.

He said:  This appalling attack on innocent refugees is a cruel reminder of the
indiscriminate aims of the terrorist and an example of why the world must work
together to do all we can to confront a menace without boundaries.

Many of the people killed and injured in the attack had already been displaced
by fierce fighting between militants and the Pakistani military.

The blast coincided with a Pakistani security operation which killed  around 40
rebels in Mohmand, a nearby tribal region.

Helicopters ferried the wounded and dying to hospital.

Pakistani Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani condemned the slaughter, and
vowed to continue the country s fight against militants. The perpetrators had no
regard for humanity or religion, he said.

The Taliban has already claimed responsibility for the attack.

On Friday and early yesterday, two separate attacks in Nigeria killed a further
40 or more people.

The deaths were reported after a series of explosions around the city of Jos, in
the central region. At least 74 people were injured or left in a  critical
condition.

The incident was politically motivated, Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan
said. However, a second outbreak of violence that killed six or more people at
two churches on Friday night appeared to be sparked by religious tensions.

What happened (in Jos) was not religious, it was political   the aim of the
masterminds is to pit Christians against Muslims and start another round of
violence,  the governor of Plateau state said.

In the second set of attacks, petrol bombs were thrown at churches, killing four
worshippers, a Baptist pastor and a security guard late on Christmas Eve.

In a separate development, Yemen announced last night that it would establish a
special anti-terror force to tackle the rising threat of al-Qaeda in four
restless provinces.

The resurgent terror network has been of increasing concern to the west, with
the Arabian Peninsula now widely seen as a hotbed of global terror.

Al-Qaeda s regional arm claimed responsibility for the failed attempt  last year
to blow up a passenger plane over Detroit.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Morad Khan comforts his young cousin Wali Khan, injured in the Pakistan
attack Photograph: Adrees Latif/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           December 26, 2010, Sunday

TERRORIST BUSBY ON NEW JAIL ATTACK RAP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 263 words


TARTAN terrorist Adam Busby Jnr has been charged with attacking a prison guard
in a maximum security jail.

It is the second time in the last two months that Busby has been accused of
violence against prison officers.

In the latest incident Busby, 35, is alleged to have attacked David Dunn in a
cell in the segregation area at Shotts Prison in Lanarkshire.

It is claimed he punched and injured the officer on the head and body on
September 9. Busby, who is serving his time for terrorist offences, was not at
Hamilton Sheriff Court when the case was heard last week.

His solicitors asked for the case to be continued for several weeks to allow
further investigations.

Sheriff Shiona Waldron adjourned until January 19.

Busby was convicted last month of attacking warders who opened his cell door in
the segregation unit at privately run Addiewell jail in West Lothian in March.

He cut one officer's lip with a punch. His second blow glanced off the second
warder's head.

At Livingston Sheriff Court, Busby was found guilty of assault and given an
extra six months in jail. He was then moved to Shotts.

Busby, whose dad Adam Snr founded the Scottish National Liberation Army, was
jailed for six years last year for a hoax bomb campaign targeted at politicians.

He said he did it to highlight the ill-health of his dad, who was jailed for
four years in Ireland in July this year for bomb hoaxes.

Busby Jnr sent shotgun shells to English-born MSP Mike Rumbles during his terror
campaign.

He also claimed he had sent explosives to First Minister Alex Salmond and made a
series of hoax bomb calls.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charged: Busby

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Al Qaeda plot New Year terror attack

BYLINE: By James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 220  words


SECURITY services are on red alert amid fears that one of Osama bin Laden's
henchman could launch a New Year terror attack in Britain.

MI5 chiefs think Al Qaeda mastermind Saif al-Adel has sent orders to followers
in the UK v ia the internet disguised as Christmas wishes.

They believe 12 men seized by counter-terror officers last week may have
contacted al-Adel, now in hiding on the Pakistan-Afghan border.

However, a small group of suspects of Bangladeshi, Pakistani and Somalian origin
who may have visited terror training camps abroad last year could still be at
large in London, Cardiff and Manchester.

Trafalgar Square on New Year's Eve, January sales or the City of London are all
possible targets for a terrorist attack.

An MI5 source said: "Al Qaeda are planning to attack this country sometime
between Christmas Day and New Year. Police have arrested 12 men who were in the
final stages of one such attack, but they haven't got them all.

"Al-Adel is suspected of sending code words in the form of Christmas greetings
to a number of websites, which are being picked up in Britain. These are really
instructions on what to do next and GCHQ is now racing against time to decipher
them."

Al-Adel is thought to be behind the 1998 US embassy bombs at Dar es Salaam, in
Tanzania, and Nairobi, in Kenya, that killed hundreds.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Don't evacuate shops if there is a terror attack, security chief warns;
TERROR

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 435 words


SHOPPERS and office workers should not be evacuated from buildings in the event
of terrorist attacks, government security advisers are telling employers.

They say people are safer inside a building when a bomb goes off elsewhere.

Nine out of 10 injuries are caused by flying glass when a device explodes,
according to Det Chief Insp Chris Phillips, the head of the National
Counter-Terrorism Security Office. "How to protect Oxford Circus from a
terrorist attack is very difficult," he told a security conference, referring to
the shopping crowds in central London.

"One of the issues is moving people from one place to another. Do we want to
move them outside? Probably not. And yet we are all trained to traipse out on to
the street when alarms go off."

DCI Phillips says that unless people are inside the building where the bomb is,
they should stay where they are in case they walk into the path of the explosion
as they are being moved out. The advice directly contradicts that given by fire
officers, who recommend that buildings should be evacuated when a fire breaks
out.

Mr Phillips says that crowds of people are ideal targets for bombers, especially
those who have strapped devices to themselves like the recent Stockholm bomber.

The advice is similar in the event of a Mumbai-style shooting attack, where
fleeing members of the public could be picked off by terrorists.

However, those inside a building attacked by terrorist commandos stand a better
chance if they escape rather than hide, assuming they can find a safe route out.

DCI Phillips says there is a case for introducing different fire and bomb alarms
in buildings and for issuing advice over a Tannoy.

The National Counter-Terrorism Security Office is responsible for giving advice
to companies that are considered "crowded places" including shopping centres,
office blocks and sports grounds, as well as smaller employers.

The unit is based at the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure,
part of MI5. DCI Phillips said that he often had a lukewarm reception when
giving advice about how to deal with a terrorist attack because people believed
he was "making it all up" about the threat.

He said attacks in London, Glasgow, Exeter and Bristol in recent years showed
that anyone could be affected.

"When something does happen it probably won't be the emergency services making
the key decisions," he added.

"It may be the person being paid £5.50 an hour at the front gate."

The issue was highlighted at the July 7 inquest where a number of emergency
responders were told not to go on to the Underground in case there were
secondary devices.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday

Indian southwestern state on high alert over possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report headlined "Security Tightened in State" and published by website
of southern India's most influential English daily The Hindu on 28 December

Bangalore: Security in the State has been tightened following intelligence
inputs from the Union Government reportedly suggesting of a terror attack in the
run-up to the New Year celebrations.

Sources in the Government told The Hindu that a communication to put the police
on alert was sent to the State by the Union Home Ministry about a week ago.

Director-G and I-GP, Ajai Kumar Singh, Additional D-GP (L and O) A.R. Infant
chaired a meeting of senior police officials.

Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa, who chaired a high-level meeting here on
Monday, told presspersons: "Security has been tightened in the State after a
terror alert was sounded by Central Intelligence agencies.

"A high alert has been sounded, especially in coastal districts."

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 28 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday

Iraqi TV shows recorded videos of "terrorists" describing roles in attacks

LENGTH: 3426 words


At 1812 gmt on 24 December, Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV carries
the second episode of a talk show entitled "Exclusive to Al-Iraqiyah" prepared
and presented by host Abd-al-Karim Hamadi.

Before the host interviews his guest in studio Major General Ahmad Abu-Raghif,
general director of the Domestic Affairs Department at the Interior Ministry,
Al-Iraqiyah airs a video showing footage of a number of members of the Islamic
State of Iraq, who were arrested in a security operation entitled the Qabdat
al-Haqq, Fist of Righteousness, describing their roles in a number of attacks in
Al-A'zamiyah, Al-Bayya, Al-Qahirah, and other places.

Attacks on Police and Army Checkpoints in Al-A'zamiyah Area

The first report shows Amir of Baghdad Hudhayfah Abd-al-Sattar al-Battawi,
"arrested leader of terrorist group" operating in Baghdad. Al-Battawi begins by
saying that he received instructions to attack police and army checkpoints in a
certain area in Baghdad and take control of the area "even if for few moments."
Al-Battawi says: "When we received the instructions, I consulted with Al-Askari
and the Umara [heads] of units on the best and most important places to carry
out this operation."

The report then shows Abd-al-Majid al-Alwani, "arrested terrorist", saying: "He
told me we will hit them today, in Al-A'zamiyah." Asked about whom they would
target, Al-Alwani said: "The guards."

Firas Fadil Abd-al-Dulaymi, who was arrested in the Qabdat al-Haqq Operation,
began by saying: "We first went to explore the area and then carried out the
operation the next day. We had some fighters for the other checkpoints."

"Arrested terrorist" Ali Jawad Kazim, aka Ali Kia, says: "We were four persons,
actually three. Qusay was my senior. He was my direct supervisor. We caught
sight of the target in front of us. We began exploring the area in Al-A'zamiyah
days before [the operation.] My rank was of a major."

Al-Battawi goes on to say: "After discussions and consultations, we agreed that
the best place to carry out the operation is the Al-A'zamiyah neighbourhood on
Umar Street, which we selected. We then began our preparations for the operation
with the assistance of Abu-Ammar, who was the Amir of Al-Rusafah [leader of the
unit in Al-Rusafah]. This operation was to take place in his section.
[Abu-Ammar] was assigned to complete the preparations for this operation by
providing fighters and weapons. We assisted him in the meticulous planning for
the operation."

"Arrested terrorist" Umar Fayyad Jasim, aka Qusay, is shown as saying: "I
received instructions from Abu-Ammar to attack checkpoints and set fire to
vehicles in Al-A'zamiyah. We explored the place. My direct orders were to seize
control of the beginning of Umar Street. We, Abu-Ammar and I, went to explore
the place one day earlier. He prepared a car and weapons." Fayyad Jasim adds:
"We scheduled the attack at noon. Abu-Ammar ordered me to set the vehicle on
fire."

Kazim says: "Qusay and Firas went out. It was the zero hour. It was around 1400
or 1430 [1100 or 1130 gmt]." Kazim goes on to say that a man told him to move
because it is prohibited to park there. He added that when he asked Qusay what
to do the latter told him the drive to the main street. Kazim then says that
when he exited the street his companions carried out the operation, noting that
he could hear the sound of the rounds being fired. Kazim says that he tried to
reach the group but was unable to do so because of the traffic. He adds that
after smashing into four or five cars he reached them but then the car was
unusable and they had to abandond it.

Fayyad Jasim says: "Two of the checkpoint soldiers were standing near a vehicle.
Farsi and I attacked the soldiers. I had a gas tank with me. So, we set fire to
the vehicle. Ali Kia was with me while Abu-Idris was covering us."

Abd-al-Dulaymi is shown as saying: "Qusay and Abu-Idris approached [the cars] on
foot while carrying sidearms and Kalashnikovs. Qusay set the car ablaze along
with two dead bodies. We retreated to the car but it was hit. We then retreated
on foot. We raised our guns in a booth inside Al-A'zamiyah."

The report then shows video footage of the terrorists while setting fire to the
car in Al-Azamiyah.

"Arrested terrorist" Abd-al-Sattar Jasim, aka Abd-al-Azim says: "Abu-Ammar was
the one in charge of this operation. About four cars participated in the
operation. I was driving an olive green Peugeot. There was a regular car ahead
of us, another Peugeot, and a third car that I did not recognize. Our mission
was to attack the checkpoints without covering our faces, kill the soldiers and
policemen at the checkpoints, and set fire to the vehicles with their
passengers."

Kazim says: "We could not handle the guards. Qusay, Farsi, the wanted Firas, and
I took our guns and escaped. We are the ones shown in the video."

The video report shows the full video footage of the attack in Al-A'zamiyah.

Al-Battawi says: "The explosives group was assigned to a certain task. They were
to cut off all the roads leading to the street so that all reinforcements are
unable to reach the area when the fighters reach the street and work on taking
control of the checkpoints. All the roads leading to Umar Street were cut off,
including Antar Square, 20th Street, and Balasim Palace. Roadside bombs were
planted on all these roads. Every patrol that came through these roads was
targeted with a roadside bomb which cut off all roads. This facilitated the
operation and the withdrawal."

Video footage then shows the mother and brother of a victim of the attack called
Muhammad al-Azzawi. Azzawi's mother says that his corpse was charred to the
point that they could only identify him with his socks.

Attacks on Jewellery Shops in Al-Bayya and Al-Bunuk Neighbourhoods

Another part of the video shows Al-Battawi saying: "During my leadership, the
group was mostly self-funded. The funds majorly came from the attacks in the
areas of Al-Bayya and Al-Mansur. We used the gold we stole from there to fund
our operations and reconstruct the group."

Umar Fayyad Jasim says: "I received instructions from the same person,
Abu-Ammar, to participate with a man called Ziyad in the attacks on the
jewellery shops. Our first operation was the attack on the gold shops in
Al-Shu'lah area. The man called Ziyad prepared for the operation." Fayyad Jasim
adds: "We scouted the shops; aman named Yasir and myself."

The video footage then shows Abd-al-Sattar Jasim saying: "We received
instructions to attack the jewellery shops in order to obtain money to fund the
operations, because the organization was in need of funds."

"Arrested terrorist" Abdallah Abd-al-Fattah, aka Ziyad, begins by saying: "The
Al-Shu'lah operation was a qualitative operation. [The attack targeted] the
jewellery shops in Al-Shu'lah; four of them. Fifteen people, maybe 18,
participated in the operation." He goes on to say: "After we took the gold, we
delivered it to the [central] headquarters to deal with it."

Fayyad Jasim says: "After this operation, we carried out an attack on the
jewellery shops in the Al-Bunuk area. Again, I worked with Ziyad in the attacks
on jewellery shops in the Al-Bunuk area. We used guns with silencers to carry
out the attack. Ziyad and a man named Abu-Hajj killed the shop owners while I
collected the gold. We took the gold and then withdrew. Another group of
fighters killed the policemen in the Al-Bunuk area."

Abd-al-Fattah says: "We and the fighters were assigned to attack the jewellery
shops in the Al-Bayya area. We had one Kia microbus and two smaller cars." He
adds: "We were between 15 and 20 persons. We were tasked with this operation
because, as we were told, the group needed funds." Abd-al-Fattah then says: "We
received orders from the headquarters to explore the Al-Bayya target. We were
there to explore it. Some members of Al-Qa'idah, with the knowledge of the
leader who gave the orders of course, began to explore the area for days until
we could obtain a car and prepare the fighters. We agreed to carry out the
operation at noon, around 1200 [ 0900 gmt]."

Abd-al-Sattar Jasim says: "Since we were unable to leave the Al-Bayya using the
car, it was decided that we keep the car in Al-Bayya and leave with our weapons
on foot."

Abd-al-Fattah adds: "Months later, we received orders to attack a jewellery shop
in the Al-Bunuk neighbourhood." He further says: "We were told to pick whomever
we want as partners in the operation. They told us that they will bring in some
people from Al-Karkh and Al-Rusafah." Abd-al-Fattah says: "We carried the
operation around 1600 [ 1300 gmt]. I was there with Qusay, Abd-al-Azim, and
Ahmad. All of them belonged to sectors of the group which I knew well." He goes
on to say: "Two entered the shop; Qusay and maybe Ahmad. I waited outside. Then
we came under gunfire from the surrounding area. They tried to hurry them. They
killed the shop owner. We did not know who had opened fire on us." Asked about
the people who had been with him, he says: "Qusay, Abd-al-Azim, Ahmad, and some
people from other sectors whom I do not remember well. There was another one
with us. We could not take him back with us. He was arrested by the security
forces."

The report then shows a video footage of security members uncovering weapons and
explosives.

Attacks Against Al-Arabiya TV; Police Officers, Checkpoints, Jewellery Shop in
Al-Qahirah Area

Umar Fayyad Jasim says: "I received orders from Abu-Ammar to join forces with a
man called Abu-Jasim and his fighters to attack a jewellery shop in the
Al-Qahirah area. We carried this attack with them using guns with silencers. We
took the gold." Jasim adds: "We then killed the owners of the shop."

"Arrested terrorist" Abd-al-Rahman Hamid al-Basrawi, aka Wathiq, says: "The
office of Al-Arabiya TV was attacked [ 26 July] because the channel fought
against my kind of thinking. It voiced its rejection of it, made films against
it, and raised awareness against it." He adds: "The best to do was to attack it
so as to deter it. The plan was to get a booby-trapped car inside the building,
but this was too difficult to achieve. We then thought the Korak Company
[maintenance company] was near the Al-Arabiya TV office." Al-Basrawi says: "We
got an Iraqi suicide bomber - an Iraqi national. We booby-trapped the car. He
then took the car, entered the building with a [false] ID, and parked the car in
the parking lot."

The video shows footage of the aftermath of the attack on the office of
Al-Arabiya TV.

Hisham-Abd-al-Hamid Abbas al-Dulaymi says: "We were tasked with attacking police
patrols on four streets in Al-Yarmuk."

Abd-al-Dulaymi says: "We carried out the second attack on traffic policemen. It
was carried out at approximately 0500 [ 0200 gmt] in Maysalun Square. The
explosive charges were planted inside the [police] booth."

Ya'rub Qahtan Abd-al-Hamid says: "The attack that followed was against the
traffic police near Tariq Abu-Shabat Street, Al-Waziriyah area." He adds: "Azhar
carried out the attack. We were riding another car; Abu-Ayyub and Husayn
attacked them. He shot at him with a silenced gun, took his gun, and got back
into the car."

"Arrested terrorist" Tahah Khudayr Sulayman Muhammad, aka Abu-Hashim, says:
"Qusay gave us orders to attack traffic police and plant explosive charges
targeting them."

Ali Jawad Kazim says: "We planted two explosive charges in the Al-Baladiyat area
and on the Muhammad al-Qasim highway."

Umar Fayyad Jasim says: "We then carried out an attack against an Iraqi Army
checkpoint in the Al-Ghadir area. Abu-Ammar gave us the orders. Abu-Ammar
selected the checkpoints [to be attacked]. He gave the orders to Abbas, a man
called Abu-Ahmad, and myself. We attacked the checkpoint, killed the soldiers,
and then retreated."

Hisham Abd-al-Hamid Abbas al-Dulaymi says: "We shot a police officer in Al-Tubji
with silenced guns." He adds: "Then we shot a police officer in Al-Waziriyah. We
shot him with guns and machineguns. He was driving his car near a gas station
near Al-Waziriyah." Asked how they identified police officers, Al-Dulaymi says:
"Through car plates or if they were in uniform." Asked whether they used to
target specific people, Al-Dulaymi says: "No, we just go out and shoot."

Suicide Attack Against Ahtar Hotel

Abd-al-Sattar Jasim says: "Ziyad was ordered to provide me with a GMC car loaded
with weapons. The car contained sticky bombs and machine guns. I was to deliver
the car to a specific location. I took the car to the specified location, the
Al-Radwaniyah area, where a man named called Yasir had to be waiting. I had to
deliver the car to him at a specific hour after sunset. I went there but did not
find Yasir, so I went back. On my way back, I came across a checkpoint, at which
Interior Affairs police stopped me and asked for the car license. I was arrested
and brought back to the ministry. When they searched the car they found the
weapons."

This is followed by a video footage of the seized GMC car and the explosives
found inside and the suicide attack against the Ashtar Hotel.

Abd-al-Rahman Hamid al-Basrawi says: "My next job was the attacks against the
hotels. After we received orders from Amir Hatim," adding: "He told us to scout
the target and so we did. Following these orders we purchased the cars; the car
which carried out the attack on Ashtar Hotel. It was a Ford, seven or 11
passengers. The explosives team drove the car near the target. Then, the suicide
bomber named Asim drove to Ashtar Hotel and carried out the attack from
Abu-Nawwas Street."

This is followed by video footage of the suicide bomber Asim driving the car
which was used in the attack and footage of the explosion.

Al-Basrawi says: "The Al-Hamra Hotel attack was a joint operation, a double hit.
A man would clear the road using his weapon, elevate the bar closing the
entrance, and allow the car to enter the hotel."

This is followed by video footage showing the group which cleared the road for
the booby-trapped car to enter the hotel.

Preparations for Attack Against the Our Lady of Salvation Church

Al-Battawi says: "We also received orders to blow up as many cars as possible in
as many locations as possible in Baghdad. The orders required that we blow up no
less than 12 or 13 cars." Al-Battawi goes on to say: "We were busy preparing for
the attack on the church. At the time, we ordered all sections to prepare and
get ready for this operation. Every section was to blow up at least five cars.
We agreed that this was to happen two days after the attack on the church. We
also agreed that these [explosions] should be synchronized. As I recall, they
were scheduled to take place between 1830-1900 [1530-1600] in order to maximize
chaos and lack of security on the streets."

This is followed by video footage showing the aftermath of the car bomb
explosions.

Host Hamadi and Maj Gen Abu-Raghif begin discussing the video footage.
Abu-Raghif begins by saying: "Our investigations with the arrested terrorists
showed that they worked and gathered in specific places, particularly near the
posts of US forces." Abu-Raghif adds: "Most of these [terrorists] are criminals
who have a criminal history in murder and robbery."

Abu-Raghif says: "As I said in the last episode, we depended greatly on the data
base which we compiled throughout our investigations with the accused whom we
had arrested in earlier incidents. Actually, through the documents obtained by
the investigators, we were able to identify the terrorists and criminals who
committed these heinous crimes. Based on that, we worked on the methods of track
down these terrorists."

Abu-Raghif says: "After that we began a thorough tracking operation and were
able to arrest an important figure whom we believed would be the key to the
Al-A'zamiyah case." Abu-Raghif further says: "He [Ali Jawad Kazim, aka Ali Kia]
was arrested in the Al-Qahirah neighbourhood."

Abu-Raghif says: "We found out that some of them burn some of their filmed
terrorist operations on CDs. They then try to slip these CDs inside the houses
of the security personnel [as threat messages]."

Abu-Raghif says: "Following the arrest of this man [Ali Jawad Kazim, aka Ali
Kia], we were able to seize these CDs which they used in threatening the
security members." He adds that Kazim was a wanted criminal. Abu-Raghif says:
"The investigations showed that [Kazim] began his [criminal] career in planting
explosive charges on the airport road." Abu-Raghif says that Kazim did not
reside in the Al-Qahirah area, where he was arrested, adding that he used to
live in the Baghdad al-Jadidah area but the Al-Qahirah area was within his work
territory, and he went there to distribute the threat CDs.

Abu-Raghif goes on to say that after a thorough search of Kazim's car, they were
able to uncover documents tt helped them to identify and track down his partners
in crime.

Asked if Kazim, aka Ali Kia, was involved in any terrorist attacks other than
the one in Al-A'zamiyah, Abu-Raghif says that he confessed to planting roadside
bombs on the Baghdad Airport road, as well as killing a man and stealing his
car, a Peugeot, which he and his partners used later in a bombing attack.
Abu-Raghif adds that Kazim and his partners also killed another man and stole
his car, a Kia, and later booby-trapped the car and detonated it in the
Al-Saydiyah area. Abu-Raghif adds that Kazim was wanted for the blasts in
Al-Sadr City and Al-Karradah, adding that the yellow Peugeot was one of the cars
that was detonated in Al-Sadr City.

Asked about the attack on the checkpoints in Al-A'zamiyah, Abu-Raghif says:
"Such attacks are hatched by some groups which come from the Al-Karkh and
Al-Rusafah areas." Abu-Raghif adds: "They used five cars to carry out this
attack, in addition to the group which planted the explosive charges on the
roads leading to the checkpoints." Abu-Raghif notes: "Most of the people who
participated in the Al-A'zamiyah operation were arrested."

Asked about the inconsistencies shown in the statements of the group's members,
Abu-Raghif says: "The details [of the operation] do not reach the regular
members of the [terrorist] group; they stay within the circle of their leaders.
They receive instructions from the main command which consults with the rest of
the sections' commanders. They receive their specific instructions during the
course of the actual operation."

Abu-Raghif goes on to say that Umar Fayyad Jasim, aka Qusay, was among three men
arrested in a raid on a house in the Al-Baladiyat area. Abu-Raghif adds that he
was later identified by Kazim, aka Ali Kia.

Asked about the attack on the office of Al-Arabiya TV, Abu-Raghif says that the
terrorists were disguised as maintenance workers, and had used false IDsto enter
the building of the Korak Company, which is adjacent to Al-Arabiya office adding
that they carried out their attack from there. Abu-Raghif says that the
explosives used in the attack weighed around 500 kilograms, adding that the
suicide bomber was an Iraqi national.

On the attacks on the jewellery shops, Abu-Raghif says that some of the stolen
jewelleries were used in funding the terrorist operations, and others were given
to the wives of the killed terrorists.

Abu-Raghif says: "This group assassinated 88 persons, including security members
and figures, and officials."

Abu-Raghif says that the security forces tracked down Abu-Hashim and Firas
through the confessions of Qusay, who had said that he paid a six-month
electricity bill of their safe house.

Abu-Raghif goes on to say that they uncovered two cars, which the terrorists had
used in the attacks on the checkpoints, in that house, adding that they found
guns with silencers attached to them. Abu-Raghif says that the confessions of
the criminals led the security forces to five munitions caches; namely, in
Al-Ghadir, Al-Zayyunah, Al-Baladiyat, Al-Za'faraniyah, and Al-Muzmarah, near
Al-Zayyunah.

This is followed by a video showing footage of the aftermath of the attack on
the Our Lady of Salvation Church, and an unidentified person saying: "I was
among the people who plotted and supervised this operation. I was among those
who carried out this operation. I was around 200 meters away from the church.
One of the executers of the attack came in driving the car which carried the
explosives used in the attack. There was another car that carried Kalashnikovs
and hand grenades."

The host concludes by thanking Abu-Raghif and says that they will discuss the
footage shown earlier in the next and last episode of this series.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1812 gmt 24 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Nine in court over alleged Christmas terror attacks plot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 434 words


NINE men have been remanded in custody charged with planning a pre-Christmas
terror attack in the UK.

The suspects, aged between 19 and 28, and from Cardiff, London and
Stoke-on-Trent, were held a week ago during a series of dawn raids by
counter-terrorism officers.

They appeared in the dock at City of Westminster Magistrates Court in three
separate groups.

Each spoke only to confirm his name, date of birth and address, before Senior
District Judge Howard Riddle remanded them to appear at the Old Bailey on
January 14.

Twelve men were held during the raids by unarmed police on December 20 in
London, Cardiff, Stoke-on-Trent and Birmingham.

Two men from Cardiff and one from London have been released without charge.

The nine suspects are charged with conspiring to cause by an explosive substance
an explosion or explosions "of a nature likely to endanger life or cause serious
injury to property in the UK" between November 6 and December 21 this year.

They are also accused of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of
terrorism between November 6 and December 21, including downloading,
researching, obtaining and discussing materials and methods; researching,
discussing and carrying out reconnaissance on and agreeing potential targets;
travelling to and attending meetings; and igniting and testing incendiary
material.

The suspects from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai (28), of Albert Street; Omar
Sharif Latif (26), of Neville Street; and Abdul Malik Miah (24), of Ninian Park
Road.

The suspects from London are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury (20), of
Stanliff House, Tower Hamlets, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman (28), of St
Bernard's Road, Newham.

The suspects from Stoke- on-Trent are Nazam Hussain (25), of Grove Street; Usman
Khan (19), of Persia Walk; Mohibur Rahman (26), of North Road; and Abul Bosher
Mohammed Shahjahan (26), of Burmarsh Walk.

Last week's raids came after several months of surveillance and monitoring by
police and MI5 officers.

At the time the country's top counter-terrorism officer, Metropolitan Police
Assistant Commissioner John Yates, said it was "absolutely vital" for the public
to remain vigilant.

The operation was the most high-profile anti-terror raid in Britain since April
2009, when 12 men were detained across northern England.

All were released without charge but authorities still insisted they had
thwarted an al-Qaida bomb plot that was based in Manchester.

CAPTION: Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury (left) and another of the nine men
charged with planning an alleged pre-Christmas terror attack leave Westminster
Magistrates Court in a police van PA Wire

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Nine men charged with plotting terrorist attack;
COURTS

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 230 words


Nine men have been remanded in custody after being charged with plotting a
terrorist attack on British targets in the run-up to Christmas.

The suspects, from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent and aged between 19 and
28, were charged with terrorism offences including conspiracy to cause
explosions. They appeared at Westminster magistrates' court in three groups and
spoke only to confirm their name, date of birth and address.

They were among 12 men held following co-ordinated dawn raids in London,
Cardiff, Stoke-on-Trent and Birmingham a week ago. Two men from Cardiff and one
from London were released without charge.

Those in custody have been charged with conspiring to cause an explosion "of a
nature likely to endanger life or cause serious injury to property in the UK"
between 6 November and 21 December.

The charges also include preparing for a terrorist act during the same period by
downloading and discussing methods, carrying out reconnaissance on an agreed
target and testing explosives. The nine will appear at the Old Bailey on 14
January.

Gurukanth Desai, 28, Omar Sharif Latif, 26, and Abdul Malik Miah, 24, are from
Cardiff. Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 20, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar
Rahman, 28, are from London.

The other four suspects - Nazam Hussain, 25, Usman Khan, 19, Mohibur Rahman, 26,
and Abul Bosher Mohammed Shahjahan, 26 - are from Stoke-on-Trent.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

9 REMANDED OVER TERROR ATTACK CLAIM;
BRITAIN Briefing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 53 words


NINE men were remanded in custody charged with planning a pre-Christmas terror
attack.

The suspects, aged between 19 and 28, and from Cardiff, London and
Stoke-on-Trent, were held a week ago during a series of dawn raids by
counter-terrorism officers. They appeared in the dock at City of Westminster
Magistrates' Court.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday

'Terror nine tested bombs for attack' - prosecutors

BYLINE: Angus Howarth

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nine men have been remanded in custody charged with planning a
pre-Christmas terror attack, including carrying out test explosions.


The suspects, aged 19 to 28, and from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent, were
held a week ago during a series of dawn raids by counter-terrorism officers.

They appeared at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court in three separate
groups.

Each confirmed his name, date of birth and address, before Senior District Judge
Howard Riddle remanded them to appear at the Old Bailey on 14 January.

Twelve men were held during police raids on 20 December in London, Cardiff,
Stoke-on-Trent and Birmingham.

Two men from Cardiff and one from London have been released without charge.

The nine suspects are charged with conspiring to cause, by an explosive
substance, an explosion or explosions "of a nature likely to endanger life or
cause serious injury to property in the UK" between 6 November and 21 December
this year.

They are also accused of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of
terrorism between 6 November and 21 December, including by downloading,
researching, obtaining and discussing materials and methods; researching,
discussing and carrying out reconnaissance on and agreeing potential targets;
travelling to and attending meetings; and igniting and testing incendiary
material.

The suspects from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai, 28; Omar Sharif Latif, 26; and
Abdul Malik Miah, 24.

The suspects from London are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 20, of Tower
Hamlets; and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 28, of Newham.

The suspects from Stoke-on-Trent are Nazam Hussain, 25; Usman Khan, 19; Mohibur
Rahman, 26; and Abul Bosher Mohammed Shahjahan, 26.

Last week's raids came after several months of surveillance and monitoring by
police and MI5 officers.

At the time, the country's top counter-terrorism officer, Metropolitan Police
Assistant Commissioner John Yates, said it was "absolutely vital" for the public
to remain vigilant.

Sue Hemming, head of the Crown Prosecution Service Counter Terrorism Division,
said yesterday: "I have today advised the police that nine men should be charged
with conspiracy to cause explosions and with engaging in conduct in preparation
for acts of terrorism with the intention of either committing acts of terrorism,
or assisting another to commit such acts.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CITY SUSPECTS CHARGED WITH CHRISTMAS BOMB PLOT;
Nine accused of planning terror attack remanded by court

BYLINE: Alford

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 96 words


THREE Cardiff men have been charged with plotting a terror attack in the run-up
to Christmas.

Gurukanth Desai, 28, Omar Sharif Latif, 26, and Abdul Malik Miah, 24, all from
the city's Riverside area, have been remanded in custody.

Together with six others from London and Stoke-on-Trent, they appeared in court
in London yesterday charged with preparing to commit acts of terrorism,
including researching and discussing methods and targets, and conspiring to
cause an explosion.

Members of Cardiff's Riverside community yesterday spoke of their shock.

Full Story: pages 4-5

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

7/7 bombers killed my sister...I'm telling kids of all cultures her story to
stop terror attacks from happening again;
ESTHER LAUNCHES SCHOOL 'CITIZENSHIP' CLASSES

BYLINE: AMANDA REVELL WALTON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 44,45

LENGTH: 1409 words


A WOMAN whose sister was killed in the 7/7 bombings is turning her loss into a
positive force in Britain's schools.

Esther Hyman was told her sister Miriam escaped the 2005 London terror attack
unscathed when she was evacuated from King's Cross Station following three
blasts on the Tube.

But by a terrible twist of fate, the pretty freelance picture editor, aged 32,
was killed instantly when the double decker bus she then boarded was blown up in
Tavistock Square.

Now Esther has teamed up with the school they both attended to launch innovative
"citizenship classes" in her sister's memory to combat extremism.

And she hopes the pilot scheme will be rolled out nationwide to help prevent
more terrorist atrocities.

Esther, 41, who refers to Miriam by her nickname "Mim", says: "Mim wasn't just
my sister, she was my closest friend and confidante.

"When I was told they'd identified her body, I felt like I'd been bashed over
the head. There were a few split seconds of nothingness before the pain started
to set in."

It would have been more than understandable for Esther to be consumed by
feelings of hatred towards the al-Qaeda extremists who orchestrated the deadly
July 7 attacks.

But this was not the case for the former primary school teacher.

Esther, who lives in Oxford, explains: "I've had very few moments of anger. It
just seems so futile.

"I feel more a sense of gloom because as human beings it's about time we just
grew up, got over what divides us and instead concentrated on what we have in
common - and stopped killing each other."

In the years following the outrage Esther has worked tirelessly to do something
to prevent another 7/7.

She explains: "There are groups of people out there who would like to drive as
big a wedge as possible between communities. I'm determined not to allow that to
happen."

Esther says: "The aim of the new project is to teach children social cohesion
and good citizenship.

"We want to stop young people from seeing our cultural differences as something
bad and start seeing them as interesting - to make youngsters enthusiastic about
each others' differences, not fearful.

"Mim never saw people as being of a particular race or religion.

"We have a dad who is from Streatham in London and a mum who is originally from
Calcutta in India - and they're both Jewish. Mim loved that we had all these
mixed influences and treasured them."

The idea for the citizenship classes first took shape after Esther and a charity
she and her parents set up in Mim's memory helped establish The Miriam Hyman
Children's Eye Care Centre in Orissa, India, in July 2008.

She says: "The centre is a fitting and lasting memorial to Mim who was a
brilliant artist and loved nature. She didn't discover she was short-sighted
until she was in her teens and when she first wore glasses it was a revelation
to her.

"She said she could see every leaf on every tree for the first time. So we
thought this would have been close to her heart. Since it opened, there have
been more than 20,000 outpatients' appointments and more than 2,000 surgeries."

After the hospital was up and running, Esther and those involved with the centre
wanted to start addressing the issues behind 7/7. She explains: "We held
seminars and there was a lot of discussion on the need for society to focus on
what people have in common - seeing our diversity as something to be valued.

"We asked ourselves, 'Where can we make the biggest, most positive impact?' The
answer was obvious - education. The young people of today are the citizens of
tomorrow."

Esther and her mum Mavis, 79, approached the head of the all-girl Copthall
Secondary School in Mill Hill, London, where Esther and Miriam had been pupils.

Esther says: "Mum and I went to visit the headteacher Jane Beaumont, two years
ago.

"Although it's single sex, the school is the perfect place for the classes to be
developed as there is a real mixture of pupils from different backgrounds,
cultures and faiths."

Over the next year and a half, Esther and Mavis had countless meetings with the
head and together they worked out how a programme of lessons could fit in with
the curriculum.

Esther explains: "By hearing what happened to my sister, the children will
hopefully be able to see what can happen when there is hatred and intolerance of
other cultures.

"These issues are very difficult to approach in school because they are very
controversial. By doing it through a personal story it will be less
confrontational."

Pupils will also study the area in India where the eye care centre is based.

Esther explains: "They'll learn a little bit about the history and the geography
of the area, how that influences the economy and look at the country's food,
arts and religion.

"The aim is to get children to look around them and be interested in others who
may have a different home life and background to themselves,"

The classes will be piloted with Year 9 students and be woven into at least
seven areas of the National Curriculum.

Esther says: "So,. for example, in dance classes pupils will put together their
own dance based on what they've learnt."

Although it is now more than five years since the 7/7 attacks, Esther believes
the fact extremist acts continue to hit the headlines means there is a real need
for this kind of teaching.

She cites the example of Roshonara Choudhry, 21, from East Ham, London,
sentenced to life imprisonment last month for stabbing former minister Stephen
Timms.

Muslim Choudhry became radicalised after watching hatefilled teachings of
extremist preachers on the internet.

Esther say: "It's exactly young girls and boys like this who we really hope the
activities could influence in a positive way.

"We really want to reach children who do not have much contact with other
communities in their day-to-day lives.

"We'd be more than happy if the classes were taken up in faith schools, where
children are only surrounded by those from a very similar culture and religion
to their own." In fact Esther hopes the classes, which any educational
institution will be able to download in the form of an electronic resource pack,
will eventually be used throughout the UK in primary and secondary schools - and
in English-speaking countries -worldwide.

For Esther and her family, the launch of the pilot classes in memory of Mim has
come at a time of sadness.

The full horror of what happened on 7/7 is being relived daily in central London
at an independent coroner's inquest, expected to last up to five months.

Esther, who was working as a medical secretary at the John Radcliffe Hospital in
Oxford at the time of the bombings, recalls that initially she wasn't too
worried about her sister.

Her father John, 77, spoke to Mim shortly after the third bomb had gone off on
the London underground.

Esther recalls: "She told him she'd been evacuated at King's Cross and was going
to go and have a coffee and try to get an idea of how the situation was panning
out."

Tragically Mim instead jumped on the double decker bus bound for Tavistock
Square, left.

Over the next few days Esther and her family and friends desperately tried to
find her, distributing photos to the media and putting up "missing" posters
around London.

It took four days before Esther and her family were told that Miriam had
definitely been on that bus.

Esther says: "Dad called and said, 'I'm sorry darling, but Mim's been identified
by her dental records.' "I remember saying 'OK' and putting the phone down."

Esther says she immediately knew "nothing would ever be the same again" but she
realised she had to accept what had happened to her sister and do something
positive and constructive.

It was this decision which led her to attend an open day at her local mosque in
Oxford just five weeks after 7/7. She explains: "I went and introduced myself as
the sister of one of the bomb victims.

"I said I was there to extend the hand of friendship and to make sure they knew
that I didn't blame them for the actions of a radicalised few."

Esther adds: "I have learnt that you can't control what happens to you in life
but you can control how you respond to it.

"We hope Mim's legacy will be a better vision of the future - where we are more
each others' friends or, if not friends, at least just respecting each others'
rights.

"That is a vision Mim would have related to."

To donate to the Miriam Hyman Memorial Trust see miriamhyman.com.

'There seconds of nothingness then pain hit me'

'Mim's story shows what hatred can do in a society'

Futile

Hatred

Legacy

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SO CLOSE ... (inset, from top) Esther with tragic sister Miriam; with
children at Copthall School; and the bombed Tavistock Square bus on which Miriam
died

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan MPs express concern over increasing terrorism, drone attacks

LENGTH: 650 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 28 December: Members of the National Assembly Tuesday [28 December]
expressed serious concern about increasing incidents of terrorism and linked it
with drone attacks. They called upon the government to get these attacks halted
which are disturbing law and order and hurting the economy of the country.

PPP [Pakistan People's Party]-Sherpao leader Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao said that
more then five drone attacks were reported in tribal areas during the last 24
hours, adding that these attacks were resulting in terrorism and extremism in
Pakistan. He said the government claims that it is against these attacks and
asked then why the joint resolution of the parliament regarding the drone
attacks has not been implemented. He said the government should table the joint
resolution in the House to review the situation because the increasing number of
drone attacks are causing collateral damage as well as resulting in extremism.
Sherpao warned that any military operation in South Waziristan would further
deteriorate the situation.

JUI-F [Jamiat-i-Ulema-i-Islam-Fazlur Rehman] leader Maulana Atta ur Rehman said
that the US forces came to Afghanistan to eliminate terrorism however they have
completely failed to curb the menace which has also affected Pakistan. He also
referred to the joint resolutions of the Parliament on drone attacks and called
for implementation of these resolutions in true letter and spirit.

PML-N [Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz Sharif] leader Hanif Abbasi said the
government should make its policy clear on drone attacks and let the people know
about any agreement in this regard. He said innocent people have been killed in
drone attacks which were ultimately resulting in terrorism and extremism. He
said the government should arrest the assassins of Shaheed [martyred] Benazir
Bhutto and called for joint struggle to expose her assassins, adding that
Shaheed Benazir Bhutto was an asset of the country and she had remained Prime
Minister for two times.

MQM [Muttahida Qaumi Movement] leader Dr Wasim also expressed concern about law
and order situation and terrorism in the country and called for all holding
parties' conference (APC) to find out a strategy to curb terrorism, suicide
attacks.

PPP leader Fouzia Wahab was also concerned about terrorism and suicide attacks
and said that instead of summoning APC the issue should be debated by the House.
Meanwhile, Dr Darshun staged a walk out from the House to protest increasing
incidents of kidnapping of minorities for ransom in Sindh and other parts of the
country. Adviser to Prime Minister on the directions of Deputy Speaker went to
protesting parliamentarian to bring him back in the House.

Pakistan Muslim League-N chief whip Sheikh Aftab took a strong line on recent
increase in drone attacks in Pakistan's tribal areas and termed it a dent in the
country's sovereign status. He recalled Pakistan's prestige which it acquired in
the comity of nations on becoming the seventh nuclear state in the world and the
first in the Islamic world, but lamented over its inability to be able to stop
drone attacks.

"If we have to live we have to live as a sovereign country. We would not allow
our sovereignty to be compromised," he said. He drew attention of the House to
the shutting down of industry in Faisalabad, country's industrial hub owing to
long power and gas outages. Closure of industry would definitely cast negative
impacts at a juncture when prices had already soared very high in the country,
he argued.

Sheikh Aftab urged the government to make what he called important decisions to
improve law and order, eradicate unemployment and boost economy. He stressed for
re-opening of industry, and institution that were once profit-making.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1505gmt
28 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday

Bosnia: Custody of group charged with terror attack on police station extended

LENGTH: 1063 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
28 December

[Report by F. Vele: "Terrorist Palislamovic Calls Prosecutor 'Lying Slut,' State
Judge 'Fool'"]

Yesterday's [ 27 December] hearing before the B-H [Bosnia-Hercegovina] Court to
determine the custody of Haris "Oks" Causevic and others charged with the 27
June terrorist attack on the Bugojno Police Administration, turned into an
unprecedented drama!

Extension of Custody

Responsible for the drama was Naser Palislamovic, suspected of organizing this
terrorist attack, which resulted in the death of police officer Tarik Ljubuskic
and severe injuries of his colleague Edina Hindic. Palislamovic in the basest
manner insulted State Prosecutor Tatjana Kosovic and Prosecutor Ozrenka
Neskovic.

The court extended the custody of Causevic, Palislamovic, and Adnan "Maca"
Haracic for another three years from the date of confirmation of the indictment.
The court extended the custody of Emin Osmanagic, Nedzad Kesko, and Haris Spago
for one year. Their custody was extended over the threat of escape, possible
influencing of witnesses and accomplices, possible repeat perpetration or
completion of the crime, and possible violation of peace and order.

Palislamovic started provoking as soon as the names of the defendants were
called out. When asked whether he was present in the courthouse, Palislamovic
said, "I was replaced and they did not bring the right guy." Claiming that he
did not recognize the State Court, he urged the judge to "move on." He then
laughed annoyingly and told judge Kosovic that she was "a fool" and "crazy."

When Judge Kosovic asked Haracic if he was married, Palislamovic shouted, "He is
waiting for you!" He then said that the judge needed "a psychiatrist."

He subsequently started provoking Prosecutor Neskovic. During her explanation as
to why the defendants' custody should be extended, Palislamovic shouted, "Cut it
short! You ramble on and on!"

"You should tell us where you hid the white Nissan. You rotten woman... You
lying slut... You musrik [nonbeliever] whore... I will send you a man to show
you where the Nissan is. You will see who you are dealing with... All of you are
musrik vermin! You were in the gutter. You are made of clots [as published]. Who
gives you the right to try me?" Palislamovic shouted in a fit, banging his fist
on the table and saying that he was a believer.

He then shouted "Allahu Akbar!" twice in the courtroom.

This unprecedented incident in the State Court ended when Judge Kosovic ordered
police officers to take the rampant Palislamovic out of the courthouse. This
behaviour was the reason why Fahrija Karkin, Palislamovic's ex officio lawyer,
decided yesterday to stop defending him. He said that although he had defended
all sorts of people in the past, he would not defend someone who disrespected
the State Court. He wavered all fees.

Repeat Perpetration

Prosecutor Neskovic explained that the B-H Prosecutor's Office had a vast number
- 94 - of pieces of evidence against the defendants, as well as statements of
many witnesses. According to her, this evidence was sufficient to conclude that
the defendants had committed the crimes they were charged with. She warned that
a large number of witnesses were concerned about their own safety.

Speaking about the defendants' possible repeat perpetration if released, she
pointed out that some of them had been collecting in Bugojno vast quantities of
arms, ammunition, and explosive ordnance - which they had intended to use to
carry out terrorist attacks on unspecified targets - ever since 2008.

The weapons were discovered only after the attack in Bugojno. Neskovic said that
the investigation conducted thus far had not identified the people from whom
they had obtained the weapons, and had not determined how they had obtained the
money to pay for the arms - the latter being a matter of particular interest.

"The arms were collected over a period of several years. Because no one knew
about it, they might gath er it unobserved again. We discovered another
explosive device that was ready to use, along with the stick and the charges.
After the attack Haracic dug it out of the ground and threw it in the Visocica
River," Neskovic said.

Yesterday lawyers warned that Kesko received ethnically offensive remarks from
one of the guards in the Orasje Prison. This, along with economic reasons, was
grounds for the lawyers' motion that the defendants be moved to the B-H Court's
detention unit in Sarajevo.

[Box] Haris Causevic: I Am Not a Bosniak; I Am a Bosnian

Addressing the court, Causevic said that the prosecutor was behaving like
"Dzemila the psychic" because she did not have grounds to say that Bugojno
residents were concerned about his possible pretrial release. According to him,
this was a case of "social engineering" and propaganda so that the public would
condemn him before the verdict was pronounced. He requested that his data not
say that he was a Bosniak because he was of Bosnian ethnicity.

"They want to turn me into a caveman. They claim that I wanted to assassinate
all politicians, which is nonsense. I am not Radovan Karadzic. This is a
political indictment... I am warning the court not to fall for these tricks. The
prosecutor knew that I had been tortured, but she covered it up. They broke my
leg with crowbars. This is the reason why they hide my photographs from the
investigation. Do not be the ones who generate terrorism. Let me go," Causevic
said, among other things.

He asked Judge Kosovic that a laptop be brought to him in prison, but the judge
refused. He said that, in that case, he would not be responsible if someone on
the Internet were to use his identity and write all sorts of things.

Sweeping Generalizations

Seeking release of their clients, the lawyers said that the B-H Prosecutor's
Office presented evidence in an inadequate manner. According to them, there was
not sufficient evidence to specify the responsibility of each of the defendants.
They said that sweeping generalizations were made about the threat of escape or
undue influence, without proof that this truly could happen.

Previous Convictions

Naser Palislamovic: forgery, domestic violence, and threat to safety.

Adnan Haracic: theft.

Emin Osmanagic: robbery.

Haris Spago: damaging of other people's property.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 28 Dec 10 p 2

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday

Russian paper describes strategic force response to terrorist attack in USA

LENGTH: 695 words


Text of report by the website of liberal Russian newspaper Vremya Novostey on 13
December


[Report by Yuriy Golotyuk: "Avoiding War: Russian Military Ordered Not to
Prepare for Attack against US"]

In the words of the "Vremya novostey" newspaper's top-level sources of at the
Russian military agency, the "first hour and a half" following the terrorists'
strikes against Washington and New York" were the most dangerous for the world.
The US Army responded to the terrorists' acts by putting troops at the highest
levels of combat readiness with lightning speed. The uncertainty of the threat
and the monstrous scale of the terrorists' acts compelled the Americans to act
in keeping with a worst case scenario: all forces - including its nuclear
arsenals - were urgently prepared to repel aggression. This could only prompt a
retaliatory reaction: Russia automatically was forced to heighten the combat
readiness of its subunits that cover the country's territory, including the air
defence troops and aerospace troops, the Air Force and the Navy, and augmenting
watch shifts were immediately summoned to the Strategic Missile Troops' command
points.

In this situation any new provocation -particularly along the line that is
contiguous with the "zones of responsibility" of the Russian army and the armies
of the US and its NATO allies - was fraught with the danger of a further
uncontrolled escalation of conflict. In a chaotic condition anyone would be
nervous. Particularly in response to the ongoing military preparations in the
States, which led to putting the American armed forces in a "delta" state
(signifying the army's readiness to repel aggression unleashed against the US,
meaning war); this formally required the Russian military leaders to declare a
"period of threat." This signifies the urgent deployment of our nuclear
submarines from their bases along combat patrol routes, the concentration of
missile complexes in back-up positions, moving combat aviation to forward area
basing airfields, and so forth.

It is now difficult to judge at which of these stages the Russian army was
ordered to cease its involuntary "preparation for war" and to not compete with
the Americans in a combat readiness level. Judging from everything, the order
came following an urgent meeting in the Kremlin that President Vladimir Putin
conducted with the ministers of the militarized bloc. Afterward the Russian
General Staff cancelled the Navy's deployment of surface vessels and submarines
to sea and partially reduced the Air Force's level of combat readiness. As
stated at the main command of the national Air Force, at the request of the
American side the Air Force command made urgent adjustments in the Russian
strategic bombers' exercise that was then underway. In the words of the Air
Force main command press secretary, Col Drobyshevskiy: "The practical actions
during the manoeuvres were cancelled," which means that the Russian bombers
cancelled their sorties in the direction of the US, Canada, Norway, Great
Britain, and Iceland. Moreover, they acknowledged at the main command that the
additional steps taken to strengthen control over Russia's air space continued
to operate. All flights directly over Moscow and St Petersburg were banned
(except for special flights), and the tracking of the aircraft of foreign
airlines flying over the country along international air corridors was
heightened. According to our information, the resources of the National Missile
Attack Warning System (SPRN) were fully activated (usually the SPRN radars only
operate at 30 to 50 per cent of their capability), as were those that track
America and those that are focused on the "southern missile-threat direction"
(primarily the Middle East and the Persian Gulf zone). The Russian military
intelligence organization was ordered to "use all available capabilities to
track what was taking place": in the coming days additional technical
intelligence gathering ships were to be deployed to sea, and space troops combat
crews urgently prepared to launch the observation satellites that were available
in their arsenals.

Source: Vremya Novostey website, Moscow, in Russian 13 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terrorist plot to attack newsroom;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 100 words


Danish police arrested five suspected Islamist militants who were reported to
have been planning to attack a newspaper that printed cartoons of the Prophet
Mohammed in 2005.

They had planned to enter a Copenhagen office block housing several newspapers,
including offices of the daily Jyllands-Posten, to "kill as many as possible of
those around", police said.

A machine gun with a silencer, ammunition and plastic strips that could be used
as handcuffs were seized.

Jyllands-Posten first published the cartoons of the Prophet, provoking protests
against Danish and European interests in Muslim regions.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

DANES HOLD 5 IN PAPER ATTACK 'PLOT';
TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words


FIVE people suspected of planning a terror attack against a Danish newspaper
were arrested yesterday.

Intelligence chief Jakob Scharf said they were planning to enter Jyllands-Posten
newspaper's HQ in Copenhagen "to kill as many of the people present as
possible".

He added: "These arrests have successfully stopped an imminent terror attack."

In 2005, a cartoon in the paper depicted the prophet Mohammed as a terrorist.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack on Danish newspaper foiled;
WORLD BULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 95 words


FOUR people were arrested yesterday suspected of planning a terror attack
against the Danish newspaper that printed the Prophet Mohammed cartoons.

The Danish Security and Intelligence Service, known as PET, said three of the
four men were Swedish residents.

Jakob Scharf, the head of PET, said that "an imminent terror attack has been
foiled". He described some of the suspects as "militant Islamists".

PET said the group was planning to enter the building where the Jyllands-Posten
daily has its Copenhagen newsdesk and wanted "to kill as many people as
possible".

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday

Terrorists involved in attack on NATO supplies held in Pakistan's Balochistan

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Mastung: 31 December: Mastung Levies have arrested four alleged terrorists
involved in attacks on NATO supplies near Lakpass, some 30 kilometers off the
provincial capital late Friday [31 December].

According to Deputy Commissioner Nurul Haq Baloch the terrorists belonged to
North Wazirestan. The levies force also recovered a large number of jihadi
posters from their residence.

He added that the alleged terrorists were involved in attacks on the NATO forces
in the area.

They were shifted to Quetta for interrogation.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1709gmt
31 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday

Syria strongly condemns Alexandria terrorist attack

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Syria on Saturday [1 January] strongly condemned the vicious terrorist attack
which took place near a church in Alexandria City in the brotherly country of
Egypt.

In a statement to Sana, an official source said as Syria considers that such
terrorist crimes target the national unity and the religious pluralism in Egypt
or other Arab countries, it stands by the brotherly country of Egypt in
confronting terrorism and fighting anything that could harm the Egyptian
national unity.

The source expressed Syria's condolences to Egypt and the families of the
innocent victims, wishing them quick recovery.

The source stressed that Syria is sure of Egypt's keenness on preserving its
national unity and Arabism.

Earlier, the Egyptian authorities announced that a criminal car bomb took place
near a church in Alexandria City killing 21 peoples and injuring 79.

The Egyptian Nile TV Channel cited the Ministry of Interior as saying it is
likely that the explosive device used in Alexandria incident might be carried by
a suicide bomber died in the incident.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 1 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

Report says east Africa likely target for terror attacks

LENGTH: 686 words


Excerpt from report by Jeremiah Kiplang'at entitled ''EA countries likely Al
Qaeda targets, says report'' published by Kenyan newspaper The EastAfrican
website on 3 January

East Africa remains a fertile ground for terrorism, says a new report. The
report by a Maplecroft, a UK-based risk advisory consultancy, finds that Kenya,
Uganda and Tanzania are all at risk of being targeted by terrorist groups.

The group puts Uganda among countries that are top targets of Al-Qa'idah or
other regional extremist groups like Al-Shabab of Somalia. Other countries in
this category of "extreme risk" are Somalia, Pakistan, Algeria, Iraq, Iran,
Afghanistan, Israel, Yemen, the United States and Indonesia, among others.

Kenya is rated as "high risk" while Tanzania, though it is put under "low risk"
countries, is considered by virtue of its proximity to Somalia a potential
target.

East Africa has experienced multiple grenade attacks and two deadly bombings
over the past six months. On 11 July, explosions at two pubs in Kampala where
football fans were watching the World Cup final killed 83 people and injured
scores of others.

The most recent was an accidental explosion in Nairobi that killed the man who
was trying to smuggle a grenade on to a Kampala-bound bus. This incident, with
its minimal loss of life, would have passed under the radar of the international
community had it not been that it involved, directly or indirectly, the three
senior countries forming the East African Community [EAC].

The grenade, according to Kenya Police Commissioner Matthew Iteere, was in the
possession of a Tanzanian national, Albert Olando Mulanda, and he is thought to
have been heading to Uganda, to presumably detonate it there or on the bus
itself, which was full of Ugandan nationals.

Uganda has become a particular target of Al-Shabab terror attacks in retaliation
for the presence of Ugandan troops in Somalia, who make up the bulk of the
African Union Mission in Somalia, Amisom, sent there to bolster the fragile
Transitional Federal Government.

Somalia, which has been without a government for almost two decades, occupies
the top position among the "extreme risk" countries, and states neighbouring
Somalia appear to be at serious risk of being the foremost targets, according to
the report, titled Terrorism Risk Index 2010.

Kenya, the only country in the EAC that shares a border with Somalia, has
witnessed a number of grenade explosions in the recent past; authorities have
blamed an influx of explosives from their Horn of Africa neighbour.

The index assesses countries' safety from terror. Investors use such reports to
decide where to put their investments; with this ranking, east African countries
might suffer an investor-drought in the near future. Maplecroft Chief Executive
Officer Alyson Warhurst confirmed this on the company's website, saying
businesses were being targeted in terrorism prone areas and that it was
essential to carry out such field studies.

"For business, assessing exposures to terrorism is becoming increasingly
necessary," Prof Warhurst said. East Africa could have earned its ranking by
virtue of the number of attacks it has suffered over the period (June 2009 to
June 2010) the study was carried out.

"The index looked at terrorism-related activities from June 2009 to June 2010 to
assess the frequency of terrorist incidents and the intensity of attacks, which
includes the number of victims per attack and the chances of mass casualties
occurring," said the report.

The index also includes a historical parameter assessing the number of attacks
between 2007 and 2009 and looks at whether a country is at risk from a
long-standing militant group operating there. The report comes at a time when
EAC is preparing a security protocol to tackle terrorism in the region.

The chairperson of the EAC Council of Ministers, Hafsa Mossi, said recently that
the protocol to fight "global terrorists including Al-Shabab insurgents" has
been finalized but needs further deliberations before adoption. [Passage
omitted: Story quoting a news agency]

Source: The EastAfrican website, Nairobi, in English 3 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

Pakistan police arrest terror attack suspect in Punjab

LENGTH: 640 words


Text of report by S. Raza Hassan headlined "CID explosion suspect arrested in
Punjab" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 3 January

Karachi, 2 January: A suspect said to be linked to the 11 November bombing of
the CID offices in Civil Lines was picked up the following day from a Punjab
district, it emerged on Sunday [2 January].

Investigators believed that a number of attackers, who had opened the barrier
and gate of the complex after shooting down the Frontier Constabulary men to let
an explosive-laden truck move in, had escaped.

At least 17 people were killed and scores of others wounded in the blast on the
premises of CID offices on Beaumont Road on the night of 11 November, 2010. The
attack was carried out at 8.20 pm [0320 gmt], when only a few people were
present in the office.

Well-placed sources, who declined to name the suspect, told Dawn that he was
picked up by operatives of an intelligence agency in Rahimyar Khan district on
12 November, when he was returning from Karachi. The suspect was associated with
the proscribed Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan, the sources said.

"After the CID blast, the suspect left for Rahimyar Khan the following morning
in a passenger bus and was detained in the district by some intelligence
operatives."

They said the Sindh police had been provided intelligence reports in advance
that a suspect might travel to the province to supervise an attack on a
law-enforcement establishment. The sources said the Punjab police had passed on
the information, including a universal serial bus [USB] which contained the
video clip of the CID Civil Lines building and some other sensitive
installations, about two to three months before the attack was carried out. The
video clip had been made with a pen camera, the sources added.

The USB was seized from the suspects who had been arrested by the Lahore police
in connection with the attacks on the Ahmadis' place of worship in May last
year.

On May 28, 2010, the attackers and suicide bombers stormed two mosques belonging
to the minority Ahmadi sect in Lahore shortly after Friday prayers, killing
around 80 people.

The Lahore police arrested six suspects linked to the attacks on the two
mosques.

Following the arrests, Lahore police chief Mohammad Aslam Tareen told the media
that the suspects belonged to the banned militant outfit, Harakat al-Jihad
al-Islami, as did those who had carried out the attacks.

The Punjab police had passed on all relevant information extracted from the
suspects including the contents of the USB to the Sindh police, the sources
said.

Acting on the information, the Special Police Group personnel were posted
outside the offices of the CID Civil Lines. However, when nothing happened, the
CID took the information as a matter of routine and the SPG personnel were
withdrawn after some time. The sources said: "The SPG personnel were withdrawn
just a few days before the blast."

In the following days of the CID blast, a person called a CID officer from a
public call office in Landhi and expressed the hope that the police must have
got the message and warned of similar attacks in future, the sources said.

The CID offices were known for investigation of terrorism and other high-profile
cases after the provincial police officer some time ago decided that the CID,
which was originally tasked with intelligence gathering, would also be doing
investigation and interrogation of suspects.

Even press conferences were organised in recent months at the offices of the CID
which was basically mandated to gather intelligence.

According to some senior police officers, the CID should be allowed to do
intelligence work only as was originally envisaged. "CID officers are not
supposed to hold press conference, it is unthinkable in Punjab," an officer
said.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 03 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

US drone attacks killed 41 per cent "terrorists" in 2010 - Pakistan paper

LENGTH: 731 words


Text of report by Amir Mir "Drones killed 59 per cent civilians, 41 per cent
terrorists" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 3 January

Lahore: Of the 1,184 persons killed by the American drones in 124 attacks in
2010, around 59 per cent were innocent civilians while the remaining 41 per cent
were terrorists belonging to numerous militant groups based in the
Pakistan-Afghan tribal belt.

According to the data gathered by The News primarily from local and
international news sources, 703 of those who were perished by the US drones
between 1 January and 31 December, 2010, were civilians, including women and
children, while 481 others were commanders, fighters and activists of different
militant groups. The drones hit three types of targets in the tribal belt -
terrorists' compounds, houses sheltering the terrorists and vehicles carrying
the terrorists.

Of the 124 drone strikes, the largest number - 53 [or 43 per cent of the total
drone attacks] - were directed at alleged terrorists' compounds, followed by 41
strikes [or 33 per cent of the total attacks] targeting houses allegedly
sheltering the terrorists while the remaining 187 attacks [or 24 per cent of the
total strikes] were directed at vehicles which were allegedly carrying the
terrorists. As the velocity of the American drones has increased enormously
under the Obama administration, they are now hitting their targets with
precision.

As a matter of fact, despite a sharp increase in both the frequency and total
number of casualties resulting from Predator strikes, civilian casualties have
gone down compared with the figures of 2008 and 2009. But still, for each
terrorist killed by the drones in 2010 in the Pakistani tribal areas, around two
innocent civilians also had to die. Of the total 1,124 persons killed in the 124
drone attacks, the largest number of people - 638 [or 54 per cent of the total
casualties] lost their lives when the US drones targeted the alleged terrorists'
compounds. The 359 persons [or 30 per cent of the total casualties were perished
when the drones targeted houses allegedly sheltering the terrorists while the
remaining 187 persons [or 16 per cent of the total casualties] got killed when
the drones hit vehicles allegedly carrying the terrorists. The majority of the
drone attacks in 2010 took place in the Waziristan region administered by four
powerful Taleban groups - the Mehsuds, Mullah Nazir, Hafiz Gul Bahadar and
Haqqanis. Since 2006, the drone strikes focused on two regions: North Waziristan
and South Waziristan.

Yet, over the past two years, there has been a dramatic shift in the location of
the drone strikes. In 2009, 42 per cent of the Predator attacks took place in
North Waziristan and 51 per cent in South Waziristan.

However, 83 per cent of the total drone attacks in 2010 have targeted North
Waziristan. Key Pakistani Taleban commanders Mullah Nazir and Waliur Rehman are
based in South Waziristan; Jalaluddin Haqqani and Sirajuddin Haqqani in North
Waziristan, Hafiz Gul Bahadar, Al-Qa'idah's chief operational commander Saif Al
Adal and his Pakistani right hand Ilyas Kashmiri are based in North Waziristan;
the Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan Ameer Commander Hakeemullah Mehsud is based in
Arakzai Agency and Faqir Mohammed is based in Bajaur Agency. All these factions
of militants shelter Al-Qa'idah and various other anti-US terrorist groups.

However, 12 such militant groups remained the prime targets of the American
Predator strikes in 2010, which included the fugitive leaders of Al-Qa'idah, the
leaders of the Pakistani and Afghan Taleban, the commander of the Islamic Jihad
Group, Uzbekistan Islamic Movement, Turkistani Islamic Party, Islamic Army of
Great Britain, Haqqani Militant Network, Lashkar-e-Islami, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,
Lashkar-e-Zail and Brigade 313.

According to group-wise break-up of the 481 militants killed in drone attacks in
2010, 127 belonged to the Haqqani militant network, 123 belonged to the
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan, 38 belonged to Al-Qa'idah, 34 belonged to
Lashkar-e-Islami, 31 belonged to Islamic Jehad Group, 27 were Afghan Taleban, 24
be longed to Turkistani, 19 belonged to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, 18 belonged to
Islamic Army of Great Britain, 17 belonged to Uzbekistan Islamic Movement, 12
belonged to Lashkar-e-Zil and 11 belonged to the Brigade 313.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 03 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

Algerian terrorist attack in Kadiria damages rail line, disrupts traffic

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report by Algerian newspaper Le Jeune Independant website on 3 January

A homemade bomb buried in the ground right next to the tracks exploded yesterday
[2 January] in Kadiria, located 20 or so kilometres to the east of Lakhdaria, in
the wilaya of Bouira. This attack occurred at around 1330 hours as a freight
train passed through coming from Algiers and going to Beni Mansour, in the
wilaya of Bejaia, at the edge of the city of Kadiria, a source from the National
Rail Transport Company (SNTF) indicated. According to our source, the explosion
quite fortunately did not result in human losses though there were materiel
damages, especially to the car beneath which the blast occurred as well as to
the track, which was completely damaged in that spot. Right after the device's
explosion, a search was kicked off by the security forces, which suspect the
existence of other bombs buried on the tracks or around them. A team of
explosives specialists was dispatched to the scene to check whether there are
other still buried devices, our source indicated.

SNTF officials were forced to delay the departures of the rail cars going to
Setif and Bejaia until further notice. Our source indicated that travellers were
informed in time and that all measures have been taken for the safety of users.

Source: Le Jeune Independant website, Algiers, in French 3 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday

AU condemns terrorist attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 2 January: African Union (AU) chairperson, Dr Jean Ping has
condemned the terrorist attacks which targeted places of worship in the Egyptian
city of Alexandria on New Year's eve that led to the loss of many lives and
wounded several persons.

According to a press statement AU issued on Sunday [2 January], Ping has learnt
fatal attack with dismay and grief.

Ping has condemned in the strongest terms what he calls "the heinous terrorist
acts which cannot be justified under any circumstances". He extends his
heartfelt condolences to the people and government of Egypt as well as to the
bereaved families and prays for the speedy recovery of those wounded.

The chairperson reiterates the total rejection of all forms of terrorism and
sectarian violence.

Ping reaffirms the determination of the AU to combat terrorism and to continue
its support for the efforts being deployed by member states in this regard.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 2 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan's Swat "devastated" by flood, terror attacks in 2010

LENGTH: 928 words


Text of report by privately-owned Pakistan television AVT Khyber News on 1
January

[Presenter] Swat is a region which has been badly affected by the continuing
spell of terrorism and insecurity, and the recent destructive floods exposed
this region to many other problems. Khyber News correspondent in Swat, Niaz
Ahmad Khan, has prepared a report on the major incidents of terrorism and
reconstruction works in Swat in year 2010.

[Niaz Ahmad Khan] Year 2010 was declared as the year of peace for the terrorism
and flood-hit people of Swat. Considerable efforts were made in Swat during the
first six months of year 2010 to restore peace, undertake reconstruction and
promote tourism, and peace festivals were held in Mingora and Kalam. Prime
Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) Chief Minister (CM)
Amir Haider Khan Hoti, Army Chief Gen Ishfaq Pervez Kayani and representatives
of several countries visited Swat.

Four suicide attacks took place in Mingora during the first six months, in which
40 people were killed and 174 others injured. Moreover, a blast occurred at a CD
shop in Mingora market in broad daylight, which destroyed dozens of shops also.

Overall, the security situation remained good and the writ of the government
writ in Swat was maintained.

DPO (District Police Officer) Swat district, Qazi Ghulam Farooq, comments on the
security situation:

[DPO Farooq speaking in Pashto] You can see that 2010 was very good in terms the
security situation compared to past years. If you look at 2009 and earlier
years, you will see that the writ of the government had completely ended in the
region and there was a Taleban government everywhere. There were mine blasts,
suicide attacks and killings everywhere. At the present time, you can see that
the morale of the police is very high and the people's trust in the police has
been restored. God willing, we will not allow the situation to change. Our
infrastructure has not been completed yet. God willing, the trust of the people
will be restored fully after our infrastructure is completed. Thanks to Allah,
it is still in very good condition, but once the infrastructure is completed we
will consider our personnel much safer. They will be given houses because it is
very cold here and our performance will improve after all arrangements are
completed. In terms of the number of our personnel, their weapons and their
training, we are quite satisfied. We have started giving heavy-weapons training
to our personnel also. God willing, everything will proceed well.

[Niaz Ahmad Khan] Hundreds of people lost their lives, thousands of homes were
destroyed and thousands of people were affected by fierce floods that hit Swat
in July last year. Floods destroyed some 64 km of roads and destroyed several
big bridges on the main roads, which created serious problems for the common
people. Moreover, business activities in Swat were also badly hit. Chairman of
the Traders Association in Swat, Abdul Rahim, comments on the situation:

[Abdul Rahim speaking in Pashto] Damaged roads and bridges have devastated our
business and these destroyed bridges are a huge impediment to our business
activities. Our business cannot grow unless the communication system, roads and
bridges are rebuilt. And we vehemently complain that despite such massive
destruction, the government has not taken any effective step so far that could
allow people to make a living and resume their business activities.

[Niaz Ahmad Khan] Terrorists had destroyed a number of schools in Swat during
the last few years, because of which thousands of students were deprived of an
education. The government had repeatedly claimed that they would rebuild these
destroyed schools and homes, but these claims did not produce any concrete
results. Former president of Private Schools Association Swat (PSAS) and
spokesman of national peace jerga, Ziauddin Yusufzai, comments on the effect on
the education sector:

[Ziauddin speaking in Pashto] Only seven or eight schools out of 176 schools,
which were completely destroyed [during the Taleban rule in Swat], have been
reconstructed so far. And around 170 schools are still to be rebuilt. Moreover,
some 98 schools were destroyed by floods and there are no signs of their being
rebuilt either. We are extremely saddened by this state of affairs. If the
children of President Asif Ali Zardari or Mian Nawaz Sharif [chief of Pakistan
Muslim League - Nawaz Sharif (PML-N)] or a bureaucrat would have been studying
at these schools, then surely some alternative arrangement would have been made.
But as these are the schools attended by the children of the oppressed and poor
people of Swat, no attention is paid to them. Our children are still sitting in
tents during severe cold or hot weather. And no one has made any proper
arrangements for them.

[Niaz Ahmad Khan] A major military operation in Swat was accomplished in 2010,
but the dead bodies of militants were still being found in parts of Swat and
more than 300 dead bodies were found in the region. In this regard, the military
spokesman said that these militants are being killed during search operations.

Mostly, military authorities are empowered in Swat, but still the provincial
chief minister and ministers have paid visits to the region. KP Forest Minister
Wajid Ali Khan has claimed that their government has resolved around 80 per cent
of the problems of the people in Swat.

Following a prolonged lack of security, the people of Swat were badly affected
by floods in 2010.

Source: AVT Khyber TV, Islamabad, in Pashto 0000gmt 01 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday

Norway condemns terrorist attack in Egypt

LENGTH: 199 words


January 2, 2011

Norway has reacted strongly to the terrorist attack on a Coptic church in
Alexandria, Egypt, just after midnight on 1 January. "I condemn this attack in
the strongest possible terms," said Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre.



At the same time Mr Støre stressed that the Egyptian authorities are responsible
for safeguarding freedom of belief and the rights of religious minorities. The
bomb attack was targeted at Christian Copts who were attending midnight mass on
New Year's Eve. At least 21 people were killed and many others injured in the
blast.

"Christian Copts have the right to practise their religion freely. We are
following the situation in Egypt closely and expect the Egyptian authorities to
defend freedom of religion. It is also important that the authorities now call
for calm and urge all Egyptians to join together in the fight against
terrorism," said the Foreign Minister.

About 10% of Egypt's population are Christian Copts. In the past few years there
has been growing tension between religious groups in the country.

"My deepest sympathy goes to those who were injured or lost loved ones in the
attack, and to all the people of Egypt," said Mr Støre.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday

Smash teenager dies on her 18th birthday ; Wedding joy for champion athlete ;
Diversions for burst pipe work ; Tribute to fall death walker ; Knife terror of
women as robber attacks car

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 440 words


A TEENAGER was killed in a horrific road accident on the day she celebrated her
18th birthday.

Simone Hill was in the back seat of a Volkswagen Golf when it collided with a
Honda Accord on Monday evening.

It left Simone, of Reddish, Stockport, with severe head injuries and she was
pronounced dead at the scene.

Among the poignant tributes and flowers left at the site on Reddish Road,
Reddish, was a row of pink 18th birthday balloons and a card saying Birthday
girl'.

Simone's family have paid tribute to her, saying: From the first second to the
last, Simone was full of life. She cared for everybody she knew and was cared
for by everybody she knew.

She had the eyes of an angel and a smile that would brighten everybody's day.
Her memory will live on in all who knew her.

Her family, mum and dad, brother Liam and partner Luke all adored her and
everyone that knew her will miss her forever and always.

The accident happened near the junction with Rupert Street at 5.40pm and left
the Golf turned on its side.

A man driving the Golf managed to escape from the car uninjured and another
passenger was left with only minor injuries.

But firefighters had to pull Simone, a former Reddish Vale Technology College
pupil, from the wreckage.

Tributes were left at the scene including a note that said: How can God take you
away from us? You are the best and most beautiful friend.

And among those sent to M.E.N media websites was one from her cousin Heath
Hogan.

He said: I will miss you cuz, can't stop crying, love you with all my heart.
Happy birthday Simone, have a good one up there, I'll see you soon.

Jenny Campbell, headteacher at Reddish Vale Technology College, said Simone had
become a popular figure during her five years at the school, which she left in
June 2009.

She added: Simone was well-known by the staff and pupils because of her bubbly,
bright personality. Our thoughts are with her family and friends at this time.

Police have appealed for witnesses and are particularly keen to speak to the
driver of a car that turned from Reddish Road into Rupert Street at the time of
the accident. The car was not involved in the collision.

The accident coincided with a change of shift at the nearby Morrisons store and
one worker helped emergency services in the aftermath.

Gareth Riley, deputy store manager at Morrisons, said: A lot of staff heard the
crash and one staff member who is first aid trained comforted another lady at
the scene.

It was a horrific accident and a tragic loss of life. We were shocked and more
than anything felt sadness and sympathy for the family.

Anyone with information can contact the road policing unit on 0161 856 6173.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: scene of tragedy Dozens of floral tributes line the road in Reddish
where Simone was killed
popular Simone Hill was said to be bubbly and bright'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

Two acquitted in India's Mumbai attack case associates of terror group - lawyer

LENGTH: 523 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 5 January: Describing Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed as
"co-conspirators" in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, special public prosecutor Ujjwal
Nikam on Wednesday [5 January] told the Bombay High Court in the Indian state of
Maharashtra that the trial court had erred in acquitting the duo by giving them
the benefit of doubt.

Nikam cited 21 circumstances to establish how Faheem and Sabauddin were closely
associated with LeT [Lashkar-i-Toiba] leaders Abu Kafa and Zaki ur Rehman
Lakhvi, and had acted on their instructions to help carry out the terror
attacks.

Nikam said that both had prepared maps of target locations in Mumbai and passed
them on to LeT in Pakistan which gave them to the 26/11 attackers.

Faheem had obtained a Pakistani passport on 1 November, 2007 using forged
documents. The passport was seized from him after his arrest in Uttar Pradesh,
the northern state of India, in another case on 10 February, 2008, Nikam said.
The passport carried Faheem's photo and entries showed that he left Karachi on
15 November 2007, and arrived in Kathmandu in Nepal on the same day. The
Pakistani government had confirmed that he had stayed in that country, Nikam
said.

Soon thereafter Faheem visited Mumbai in December 2007 and sought admission in a
computer institute under a fictitious name of Sahil Pawaskar. He stayed under
the same name in a rented house in South Mumbai where targets of 26/11 attack
were located, although he owns a house in a Mumbai suburb where his family
lives, the prosecutor argued.

Faheem stayed in Mumbai till 3 January, 2008, and again went to Nepal. Between 4
January 2008 and 1 February, 2008, Naruddin Shaikh, a close of friend of Faheem,
met him in Kathmandu and saw Faheem giving maps of Mumbai targets to Sabauddin,
said Nikam.

Nikam further pointed out that one of these maps was found in the pocket of
slain terrorist Abu Ismael who was killed during the terror attack.

Justices Ranjana Desai and R.V. More then asked why the map found in Ismael's
pocket did not bear blood stains or wrinkles in that case.

The prosecutor said that Ismael had suffered bullet injuries in the left portion
of the body while the map was found in his right side pocket. Nikam however
conceded that although there were blood stains on corners of right pocket the
blood drops had not percolated inside.

Explaining the absence of wrinkles on the map, Nikam said it was illogical to
expect this. However, one can expect marks of folds on the map. Wrinkles can
appear only when the map is spoilt or crumpled by the one carrying it, he
argued.

In this case, the map had folds but not wrinkles, he pointed out. To prove his
point, Nikam demonstrated by folding two pieces of paper and putting them in his
pocket. The court was shown that they bore marks of folds but not wrinkles.
Nikam argued that the trial court had failed to ask Faheem to explain how his
photographs and handwriting appeared on the admission papers of computer
institute under the fictitious name. Faheem had neither denied nor admitted
this.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1503gmt 05 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 6, 2011, Thursday

BLADE TERROR ATTACK IN PUB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 91 words


THREE men armed with a sword, a machete and a knife burst into a pub and
attacked four revellers.

Two men and two women - all in their 20s - were treated in hospital after the
incident.

Police are now examining CCTV footage in a bid to identify the hooded attackers.

It happened at the Wig and Pen pub in Paisley on Sunday night and one of the
female victims said: "The whole thing was terrifying."

A police spokesman said: "The pub was very busy with customers after the Old
Firm match. We are appealing for anyone who saw anything to come forward."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

ENEMY WITHIN;
MI5: 500 BRITISH JIHADISTS ARE PLOTTING TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES; JON CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 233 words


MORE than 500 British Islamic extremists are plotting terror strikes here,
secret figures obtained by the Daily Mirror reveal.

Some of the jihadists, being watched by MI5 and counter-terror police, have
already obtained bomb-making materials.

The figure, which fluctuates between 450 and 550, represents the number of
monthly probes by our spies at any one time.

A counter-terror source said: "Make no mistake, these people represent extremely
serious threats to UK citizens.

"The threat of a mass atrocity against the public is real. Some of them not only
have the intent but also the material needed to carry out that intent."

Some would-be terrorists under surveillance are potential lone bombers. These
are the most difficult to monitor because they do not discuss their plans.

A small number are watched by intelligence officers abroad as they plan attacks
on British interests overseas.

The Government is spending more money than ever to thwart terror plots like the
2007 attack on Glasgow airport.

MI5 is funded by the Treasury's Single Intelligence Account, which has soared to
pounds 2billion for 2010/11. It also funds MI6 and GCHQ. The budget for all
three agencies will go up by pounds 1bn next year and remain at that level until
at least 2015.

MI5's staff roll has risen by around 1,500 to 3,800 since the September 11
attacks, although a further increase of 400 has been put on hold due to cuts.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT Abbas Iqbal of the "Blackburn Resistance" was jailed for terror
offences FLAMES Glasgow airport bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

ENEMY WITHIN;
MI5: 500 BRITISH JIHADISTS ARE PLOTTING TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES; JON CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 263 words


MORE than 500 British Islamic extremists are planning terror strikes in the UK,
according to secret figures obtained by the Daily Mirror.

Some of the jihadists, who are being watched by MI5 and counter-terror police,
have already obtained bombmaking materials.

The figure, which fluctuates between 450 and 550, represents the number of
monthly live investigations carried out by undercover spooks at any one time.

A counter-terror source said: "Make no mistake these people represent extremely
serious threats to UK citizens - the threat of a mass atrocity committed against
the public is real.

"Some of them not only have the intent but the material needed to carry out that
intent and they represent the most serious threat."

Some would-be terrorists under surveillance are potential "lone wolf" bombers.
These are the most difficult to monitor because they do not talk about their
plans.

And a small number are being watched by intelligence officers abroad as they are
planning attacks on British interests overseas. The Government is spending more
money to uncover terror plans, like the attack on Glasgow airport and the
"Blackburn Resistance" plot, than ever before.

MI5 is funded by the Treasury's Single Intelligence Account - which has soared
to pounds 2billion in 2010/11. It also funds MI6 and GCHQ.

The budget for all three agencies will go up by pounds 1billion next year and
remain at that level until at least 2015.

The number of MI5 employees has gone up by around 1,500 to 3,800 since the 9/11
attacks although a further increase of 400 has been put on hold due to cutbacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLAMES Glasgow airport bomb THREAT Abbas Iqbal of the "Blackburn
Resistance" was jailed for terror offences

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      January 7, 2011 Friday 07:30 AM GMT

UK raises terror level in anticipation of attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 61 words


Britain has raised its terrorist threat level for major transport hubs,
including airports and London railway terminals, from substantial to severe.

There is no suggestion of any intelligence of an imminent attack however and
officials are stressing the change is precautionary.

However, the decision has been made as intelligence shows a New Year attack is
highly likely.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            January 7, 2011, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words


POLICE in London are being put on increased terror alert today amid fears of
fresh attacks.

More cops are being deployed at transport hubs, including Heathrow and Luton
airports.

And it is understood that British Transport Police officers have been ordered to
cancel days off today.

Last night, Scot land Yard declined to comment on the report, saying they never
discuss the specifics of terrorism-related operations.

The Home Off ice said the country faced a real and serious threat f rom ter ror
i sm but declined to go into detail.

Severe And the Government said the threat level from international terrorism
remains at "severe" - meaning an attack is highly likely.

The level has not changed since January 2010.

One major concern has been that terrorists could launch Mumbai-style gun attacks
in public places.

Security chiefs ordered an acceleration in police training to prepare for such a
threat last autumn.

It followed the uncovering of the early stages of an al-Qaeda plot in September.

The plan involved a series of co-ordinated attacks in the UK, France and
Germany.

The 2008 attacks in Mumbai claimed the lives of 166 people.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Mumbai-style terror attack on UK is now 'highly likely'

BYLINE: By Jessica Pickin

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 197  words


POLICE reinforcements are being sent to guard airports and other major transport
hubs across London today amid fears that a terrorist attack is "highly likely",
it emerged last night.

Emergency service workers are also being briefed on how to handle a Mumbai-style
attack.

Sources say that some transport police are being forced to cancel leave in order
to be on duty.

MI5 and the Home Office set the nationwide terror level threat, which is
currently at "severe."

But the joint terrorism analysis centre based in MI5 also appoints threat levels
to individual elements of infrastructure.

The threat level has now been raised in relation to airports and London's
transport system and a memo was sent to airports and Transport for London
confirming the chances of an attack. A Metropolitan Police spokesman said:

"The threat level to the UK is at severe, which means that an attack is highly
likely, and has been since January 2010.

"We will police accordingly and use a range of covert and overt tactics, which
remain under constant review.

"Events at East Midlands Airport and speculation about Mumbai-style attacks
serve as a reminder of the enduring threat we face from terrorist groups."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police are having leave cancelled

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

Public warned in terror attack alert

BYLINE: James Tapsfield

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE public has been warned to be vigilant of terrorism after
security was reportedly tightened at transport hubs in the UK, last night.


Extra police are reported to have been deployed on the rail network and at
Heathrow  airport amid "intelligence chatter" over possible terrorist  attacks.

But Scotland Yard and the Home Office stressed that the overall threat level in
the country had not been raised to the highest "critical" level - which would
mean an incident was expected imminently.

Unconfirmed reports suggested transport police had been told to cancel days off
scheduled for today.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The threat level to the UK is at severe, which
means that an attack is highly likely, and has been since January 2010.

A Home Office spokesman added: "There is a continuing need for everyone to
remain vigilant and to report any  suspicious activity to the police."

Last night members of St Mark's Coptic Church of Scotland in Kirkcaldy arrived
at their traditional Christmas Mass to discover a police guard outside the door.

Fife police offered to protect the congregation after the church was one of
three churches threatened on an Islamist website.

The church, which celebrates Christmas on 7 January was targeted following
unrest between Moslems and Christians in Egypt.

Parishoner Subhi Hashwa said the atmosphere in the church was "calm but subdued"
and  that six policeman stood outside as around 300 coptic Christians of all
ages, from all over Scotland celebrated their traditional  mass.  Father Mark
Aziz said: "We thank the police for being with us - it made people feel more
calm."

Last night in the US, two   workers were slightly burned when separate packages
sent to state government buildings 20 miles apart released smoke and the smell
of sulphur when they were opened.

Authorities   were also  investigating a third suspicious package at a state
office building in Baltimore and a fourth at the courthouse, but it was not
clear if they were related to the other two.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2011 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

Public warned in terror attack alert

BYLINE: James Tapsfield

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE public has been warned to be vigilant of terrorism after
security was reportedly tightened at transport hubs in the UK, last night.


Extra police are reported to have been deployed on the rail network and at
Heathrow  airport amid "intelligence chatter" over possible terrorist  attacks.

But Scotland Yard and the Home Office stressed that the overall threat level in
the country had not been raised to the highest "critical" level - which would
mean an incident was expected imminently.

Unconfirmed reports suggested transport police had been told to cancel days off
scheduled for today.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The threat level to the UK is at severe, which
means that an attack is highly likely, and has been since January 2010.

A Home Office spokesman added: "There is a continuing need for everyone to
remain vigilant and to report any  suspicious activity to the police."

Last night members of St Mark's Coptic Church of Scotland in Kirkcaldy arrived
at their traditional Christmas Mass to discover a police guard outside the door.

Fife police offered to protect the congregation after the church was one of
three churches threatened on an Islamist website.

The church, which celebrates Christmas on 7 January was targeted following
unrest between Moslems and Christians in Egypt.

Parishoner Subhi Hashwa said the atmosphere in the church was "calm but subdued"
and  that six policeman stood outside as around 300 coptic Christians of all
ages, from all over Scotland celebrated their traditional  mass.  Father Mark
Aziz said: "We thank the police for being with us - it made people feel more
calm."

Last night in the US, two   workers were slightly burned when separate packages
sent to state government buildings 20 miles apart released smoke and the smell
of sulphur when they were opened.

Authorities   were also  investigating a third suspicious package at a state
office building in Baltimore and a fourth at the courthouse, but it was not
clear if they were related to the other two.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2011 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday

Haslingden family's terror after arson attack

BYLINE: Peter Magill

SECTION: HASLINGDEN (HASLINGDEN)

LENGTH: 328 words


A FAMILY have spoken of their terror after a suspected arsonist caused a
radiator to explode and blow the windows out of a Haslingden home yesterday.

Neighbours of the property in Blackburn Road were awoken unexpectedly in the
early hours by the blast, which also damaged the front bedroom window of an
adjacent house.

Fire and police investigators believe a fire was set underneath a radiator in
the front bedroom of an empty terraced house, on the corner of Union Street.

Inside the appliance the water converted to steam, eventually causing it to
explode and shatter four upstairs and downstairs window.

Ann Holden, who was sleeping in the bedroom next door to the blast, said: "It
was absolutely horrendous. I just heard a bang and ran out into the street.

"I am scared to live here now because of this."

Her son David Groves, who was sleeping nearby, added: "When I heard the bang I
thought we were all for it."

The family, which also includes David's father John Groves, say the neighbouring
house has been empty for four or five months and has been targeted by vandals
previously.

Rawtenstall fire station crew manager Tony Spencer said police and fire
investigators believe somebody had broken into the property and deliberately
started the fire.

He said: "When we arrived both upstairs windows were smashed and glass was
covering the street, with smoke issuing from upstairs.

"The fire was right at the side of a small radiator. The heat caused the water
inside to expand and turn to steam and it has to go out somewhere.

"The radiator ended up on the other side of the room, but the force of the
explosion had all but put out the fire.

"There was minimal damage from the fire and the house was very sparsely
furnished anyway.

"The property next door heard the bang - it even cracked the glass on the inside
pane of their double glazed upstairs window."

Four firefighters used breathing apparatus, a ventilation unit and a thermal
imaging camera during the 90-minute incident.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

PM'S SHOCK AT DEADLY ATTACK;
Latest on the Arizona shooting terror

BYLINE: Brian Hutton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 384 words


DAVID Cameron expressed his shock and sadness at the assassination attempt on a
US politician which killed six people, including a young girl.

Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot through the head by a gunman at a
public event, remains in a critical condition in hospital.

A 22-year-old suspect, named as Jared Loughner, is being held in custody and US
police are also searching for a possible accomplice. In a message sent to US
President Barack Obama, the Prime Minister extended Britain's sympathies and
said "violence and hate" must not be allowed to stifle political debate.

"Like everyone in Britain, I was shocked and saddened by the shootings which
took place in Tucson, Arizona," he told the president. "Our hearts go out to all
of those who have been caught up in this terrible incident.

"That such an attack should have taken place against a member of Congress as she
was meeting her constituents in a shopping centre on a Saturday morning is
especially shocking to all of us who believe in democracy. I am keeping
Representative Giffords in my thoughts and prayers as she battles for life,
together with all of those who have been wounded."

Shadow foreign secretary Yvette Cooper said: "The tragedy in Arizona is truly
appalling.

"Congresswoman Giffords and those at this public event were involved in
something so normal yet important for any democracy: meeting, talking and
debating.

"Our thoughts are with those who have lost loved ones and wishes for a speedy
and full recovery are with those who have been injured."

Mrs Giffords, a 40-year-old Democrat married to an astronaut, was targeted as
she spoke with constituents at a regular "Congress on your corner" event outside
a supermarket in Tucson, Arizona. Doctors have expressed cautious optimism that
she will survive but a federal judge and a nine-year-old girl were among the
dead - with 11 others also wounded.

Flags were flying at half mast in Washington as investigations continue into
whether the shooting was politically motivated after a recent mid-term election
campaign described as vitriolic.

The suspected gunman was tackled to the ground by bystanders. A hunt is now on
for a second individual police believe may also have been involved.

President Obama described the shooting as an "unspeakable act".

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Nightmare: Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and (left) shocked
residents in Tucxson Arizona try to come to terms with the horror.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday

State Duma committee head sees West's hand in Russia terror attacks

LENGTH: 549 words


The chairman of the State Duma economic policy committee, Yevgeniy Fedorov, has
said that Western "special services" were behind terrorist attacks in Russia.

He was speaking on Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Ekho Moskvy radio in
the 12 January edition of the "Narod Protiv" programme, which was mainly devoted
to the discussion of possible Western sanctions against Russian officials
involved in the second trial of businessman Mikhail Khodorkovskiy.

Fedorov, who is a member of the ruling One Russia party, claimed that
Khodorkovskiy had been given a fair trial and that the Western criticism of it
was a "massive propaganda attack on Russia". Another element of this "attack",
according to Fedorov, was Western support for opposition politicians such as
Boris Nemtsov.

"This powerful political machine is not just working in relation to
Khodorkovskiy. This is a law of international political competition. In combat
conditions, competition is between tanks and aircraft, while in peacetime it is
between media as well as the use of terrorist attacks and various special groups
like that of Nemtsov," Fedorov said.

He went on to claim that Nemtsov's activities were overseen by the US State
Department, while "terrorist attacks are the remit of special services".

He suggested that Russian media organizations, including state-controlled
Channel One, were under Western influence. He contrasted Russian TV's news
agenda with that of Western stations. "Nine in 10 news reports on Euronews are
positive, while in Russia, on all channels that broadcast news, including
Channel One, nine in 10 news reports are negative. This is a certain strategic
mechanism for destabilization," he said.

He claimed that "100m dollars a year is officially earmarked for the Russian
media" in the United States, while "the German budget earmarks about 100m euros
for propaganda work in Russia".

Discussing the new prison term for Khodorkovskiy, he said that it signified "a
major strengthening of Russian sovereignty" and dealt "a major blow to
corruption". He argued that ordinary business people in Russia were now less
likely to break the law because they realized that even "Khodorkovskiy, with his
money, influence and US State Department support, has been unable to bribe his
way to freedom". "When Europeans and Americans defend Khodorkovskiy, they defend
corruption in Russia," he added.

Discussing a possible Western travel ban against Russian officials involved in
the Khodorkovskiy trial, Fedorov said that allowing Russians to travel to the
West was "one of the levers to influence our decisions", which the West could
ill afford to give up.

"These sanctions are purely political and amount to pressure on Russia. In that
respect, I believe they are wrong. On the other hand, I am very calm about them
because I think that they will either be lifted very quickly or not introduced
at all," he said. He added that a travel ban could even have a positive effect
on Russian officials as it would "strengthen their patriotism".

He acknowledged that many Russian officials liked travelling to the West and
even had relatives living there, although he was not one of them. "I try not to
travel abroad because I am bored there," Fedorov said.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 1707 gmt 12 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 12, 2011
                                 First Edition

Hindu terrorists may be behind attacks;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories INDIA

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN DELHI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 209 words


India is being forced to confront disturbing evidence that increasingly suggests
a secret Hindu terror network may have been responsible for a wave of deadly
attacks previously blamed on radical Muslims.

A confessionin court from a Hindu holy man suggests that he and several others
linked to a right-wing Hindu organisation planned and carried out attacks on a
train travelling to Pakistan, a Sufi shrine and a mosque as well as two assaults
on Malegaon, a town in southern India with a large Muslim population. He claimed
the attacks were launched in response to the actions of Muslim militants. "I
told everybody that we should answer bombs with bombs," Swami Aseemanand, 59,
whose real name is Naba Kumar Sarkar, told a magistrate during a closed hearing
in Delhi. "I suggested that 80 per cent of the people of Malegaon were Muslims
and we should explode the first bomb in Malegaon itself."

Police in India have suspected for some time that Hindus may have been
responsible for the attacks between 2006 and 2008, and in November of that year
several arrests were made, including that of a serving military officer.

But the confession, obtained by an Indian news magazine, is perhaps the most
damning evidence yet that Hindu extremists were responsible.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 12, 2011
                                 First Edition

Muslims cleared on terror attacks;
The News Matrix The day at a glanceINDIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 29 words


The confession of a holy man on trial in India suggests a secret Hindu terror
network may have been behind a wave of deadly attacks previously blamed on
radical Muslims. PAGE 24

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Hindu holy man reveals truth of terror attacks blamed on Muslims

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe in Delhi

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 917 words


INDIA IS being forced to confront disturbing evidence that increasingly suggests
a secret Hindu terror network may have been responsible for a wave of deadly
attacks previously blamed on radical Muslims.

Information contained in a confession given in court by a Hindu holy man,
suggests that he and several others linked to a right-wing Hindu organisation,
planned and carried out attacks on a train travelling to Pakistan, a Sufi shrine
and a mosque as well as two assaults on Malegaon, a town in southern India with
a large Muslim population.

He claimed the attacks were launched in response to the actions of Muslim
militants. "I told everybody that we should answer bombs with bombs,"
59-year-old Swami Aseemanand, whose real name is Naba Kumar Sarkar, told a
magistrate during a closed hearing in Delhi. "I suggested that 80 per cent of
the people of Malegaon were Muslims and we should explode the first bomb in
Malegaon itself. I also said that during partition, the Nizam of Hyderabad had
wanted to go with Pakistan so Hyderabad was also a fair target. Then I said that
since Hindus also throng [a Sufi shrine in] Ajmer we should also explode a bomb
in Ajmer which would deter the Hindus from going there. I also suggested the
Aligarh Muslim University as a target."

Police in India have suspected for some time that Hindus may have been
responsible for the attacks carried out between 2006 and 2008, and in November
of that year several arrests were made, including that of a serving military
officer. But the confession of Swami Aseemanand, obtained by an Indian news
magazine, is perhaps the most damning evidence yet that Hindu extremists were
responsible. It also suggests those involved were senior members of a religious
group that is the parent organisation of India's main opposition party, the
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).

"The evidence is not conclusive but people have to take notice of this," said
Bahukutumbi Raman, a former national security adviser and now a leading regional
security analyst. "This could aggravate tensions between India's [Hindu and
Muslim] communities. It will create problems."

The revelations in Tehelka magazine, bear added significance following the
comments of Rahul Gandhi, widely expected to be a future prime minister, in
which he said he believed the growth of Hindu extremists presented a greater
threat to India than Muslim militants. According to a cable obtained by
WikiLeaks, last year Mr Gandhi told the US ambassador to Delhi, Timothy Roemer:
"Although there was evidence of some support for Laskar-e-Taiba among certain
elements in India's indigenous Muslim community, the bigger threat may be the
growth of radicalised Hindu groups, which create religious tensions and
political confrontations with the Muslim community."

At the time, Mr Gandhi's comments were strongly condemned by the BJP. But the
main opposition party has been pushed on to the back foot by the testimony of
Swami Aseemanand, which suggests many of those involved in the bombing plots
were members of religious organisations such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh
(RSS).

The RSS is considered the BJP's ideological parent. This week, the RSS's leader,
Mohan Bhagwat, claimed extremists had been forced out. "Elements nurturing
extremist views have been asked to leave the organisation," he said. "A majority
of the people whom the government has accused... had left voluntarily and a few
were told that this extremism will not work here."

Among the incidents initially blamed on Muslim militants was a bomb attack in
February 2007 on the Samjhauta Express, travelling between Delhi and Lahore. Of
the 68 deaths, most were Pakistani citizens returning home. The attack took
place a day before Pakistan's Foreign Minister was due to arrive in India for
peace talks.

Swami Aseemanand was arrested in Haridwar last November, having apparently been
in hiding for more than two years. In his 42-page confession to the magistrate,
he reportedly claimed he had been spurred into action by a series of Muslim
attacks on Hindus, in particular the assault on the Akshardham temple in Gujarat
2002 that left at least 29 people dead. "This caused great concern and anger in
me," he said.

THE ATTACKS UNDER SCRUTINY

Samjhauta Express

In February 2007, two firebombs exploded on the train commonly known as the
'Friendship Express' which travels across the Indo-Pakistani border. Most of the
68 victims and 50 injured were of Pakistani origin. Three further unexploded
suitcase bombs were later found on the train.

Mecca Masjid

An attack on the Mecca Masjid mosque, which is in Hyderabad's old city, left 14
people dead in May 2007 - with five apparently killed by police firing on a
furious mob after the incident. Swami Aseemanand apparently said that the site
was chosen because the local administrator wanted to be part of Pakistan during
partition.

Ajmer

A famous Muslim shrine in the city of Ajmer in Rajasthan, about 350km south-west
of Delhi, was targeted by bomb attacks in October later that year. Two people
were killed and 17 injured near the scared shrine, which houses the tomb of a
13th-century Sufi saint. Swami Aseemanand said the blast was intended to deter
Hindus from going there.

Malegaon

In September 2008, three bomb blasts killed 37 people in the Muslim-majority
city of Malegaon, situated about 160 miles north-east of Maharashtra's state
capital, Mumbai. Muslims had been attending prayers when the bombs exploded in a
sacred burial ground, also injuring more than 125 people.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday

Sword attackers brought terror to World Cup party'

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 352 words


A WORLD Cup party ended in bloodshed when two men attacked guests with samurai
swords, a court heard.

Michael Holt, 31, and Gareth Wilkes, 29, went on the rampage after storming into
a house following England's goalless draw against Algeria, it was said.

A jury at Bolton Crown Court heard that Mr Holt punched a terrified woman in the
face after she tried to stop him going into her daughter's bedroom.

Peter Candleholder, prosecuting, said the attack took place in the early hours
of June 19 at a house on Eastwood Close, Bolton.

The host, Nina Williams, invited Holt, of Sandhill Close, Bolton, to come in
after she saw him walking the past the house at around midnight. But he turned
violent and punched guest John Bullough, it was said.

He was thrown out after knocking Mr Bullough to the floor and raining punches
down on him, the court heard.

Minutes later Holt returned with Mr Wilkes, who lived at nearby Tartlet Place.
Both had swords, the court heard.

The prosecution said the pair attacked Ms Williams' partner, Jason Waring, with
the sword, cutting his arm, leg, wrist and tongue.

In a statement, Ms Williams said: Michael then stormed upstairs. I was
frightened for the children so I followed him up.

I tried to stop him on the landing but he hit me in the mouth. I begged him not
to hurt the children.

The court heard Holt slashed at another man while upstairs. Paul Treble,
defending, asked her why she did not call the police straight after Holt
allegedly hit the first guest.

He said guests had a grudge' against Holt and deliberately invited him in to
attack him.

Mr Treble said Holt was hit over the head with a bottle in the initial
confrontation and had been chased down the street by a gang of people from the
party.

Holt denies assault occasioning actual bodily harm and two counts of wounding
with intent. He also denies a charge of assault by beating in relation to Nina
Williams.

He admits possession of an offensive weapon and unlawful wounding in relation to
the attack on Jason Waring.

Mr Wilkes denies possession of an offensive weapon, unlawful wounding and
assault against Nina Williams.

Â»Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan president condemns "cowardly" terror attack in Peshawar

LENGTH: 119 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 12 January: President Asif Ali Zardari on Wednesday [12 January]
condemned bomb blast in Bannu which resulted in loss of precious lives.

The president said the bomb attack was a cowardly act and the government would
stridently pursue perpetrators of the heinous crime.

The president prayed Allah Almighty to rest the departed souls in eternal peace
and grant courage to the bereaved family to bear the irreparable loss with
fortitude.

The president directed the authorities to ensure provision of best available
medical facilities to the injured.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1530gmt
12 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Woman's terror at firework attack

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 238 words


A TERRIFIED woman fled a smoke-filled flat after a man posted a firework through
her letterbox.

The firework, believed to be a multi-shot device and about nine inches long,
exploded in a hallway shared by four flats in Market Street, Farnworth.

Police are now investigating whether the alleged arson attack may be linked to a
wave of firework-related incidents across Farnworth over the last few days.

Katie Bluer, aged 20, was asleep at her friend's flat when she was woken by the
fire alarm at about 9.30am yesterday morning.

She said: "As soon as I opened the door I was engulfed in smoke. It was like an
eggy smell, so I knew it wasn't a normal fire.

"I thought it was a bomb or a firework. It was frightening.

"I just jumped down the stairs because I couldn't see a thing, and ran to the
door.

Nobody knew I was here, so if it had caught fire I could've lost my life."

One of her neighbours, who asked not to be named, said: "Whoever did this, I
hope they don't let them out. They should be banged up for 30 years."

The firework caused no serious damage, but scorched a loose piece of carpet in
the hallway.

A police spokesman confirmed that no one had been injured.

A nearby shop worker, who also asked not to be named, said he had chased someone
down the street after they let fireworks off outside his shop on Wednesday.

Ã A 20-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of arson with intent to
endanger life and remains in custody.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

MY ROAD RAGE TERROR;
Attack with 'crook lock' could have killed me I COULD HAVE DIED 'Rage' victim
tells of ordeal

BYLINE: MIKE MORGAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 564 words


AN ELDERLY road rage victim has described the moment he was struck in the face
by a BMW driver wielding what was believed to be a metal crook lock.

Pensioner John Allan, pictured, from Marske, told the Gazette the blow could
have killed him.

As reported, a verbal altercation between a group of cyclists and motorist
Benjamin Alan Daniels on a narrow country lane led to Daniels being convicted of
assault. Teesside Crown Court heard Daniels, 30, of Harlech Close,
Middlesbrough, who was driving behind the four cyclists in Potto, lost his
temper when they held him up. He then lashed out at Mr Allan, who is more than
twice his age. Daniels admitted common assault after causing a cut to Mr Allan's
face. Judge Howard Crowson gave Daniels a one-year community order with 80 hours
unpaid work and supervision. He was also ordered to pay pounds 200 compensation.
Retired Mr Allan said after the case that he accepts the decision of the court.
But he feels the potentially serious results of the unprovoked attack may not
have been fully appreciated. He said: "This was road rage and we were innocent,
not doing anything.

"He could have fractured my skull. A blow with a heavy object like this could
have had very serious consequences. "As I looked into his open car window to
talk to him he was sat in the driving seat, picked up this implement and swung
it towards me without any warning. "It struck me on the side of my face with a
really heavy blow and knocked me over on my bike. "I fell backwards onto the
car. "If it had hit me on the temple it could have killed me. As it was, it
loosened several teeth. This was a very over the top response to what was
basically a disagreement which he had caused. "The message I'm trying to get
across to any drivers in a similar situation is it's not worth using a weapon to
be aggressive.

"There were passing places just yards ahead." Daniels, a self-employed, married
man with children and good references, told police the cyclists were abusive to
him and Mr Allan was "aggressive in a confrontation." But the court heard that
Daniels twice reversed to confront Mr Allan then struck him with the implement.
Mr Allan, 67, and three friends were cycling around villages in North Yorkshire.
They heard Daniels revving his car's engine behind them. Prosecutor Shaun Dryden
said Daniels drove aggressively trying to get past on May 11 last year. He said
as the cyclists went into single file, the BMW "flew past them, driving too fast
and too close".

The cyclists protested. Daniels drove off about 20 yards before stopping and
reversing. When Mr Allan asked Daniels what he was doing, the motorist replied:
"Bloody cyclists." Daniels sped off - but then screeched to a halt and reversed
back to the group, which was when Mr Allan went to the car window and was
struck. Daniels was arrested after one of the cyclists took his registration
number.

A yellow crook lock matching the object which struck Mr Allan was found in his
wife's car, the court heard. David Lamb, defending, said both parties shouted
and swore at each other before the blow. Judge Howard Crowson gave Daniels a
one-year community order with 80 hours unpaid work and supervision. He was also
ordered to pay pounds 200 compensation. Mr Allan told the Gazette he's been a
keen cyclist since age 16, covered thousands of miles and never encountered such
an incident before

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ROAD DRAMA: Our story on the court case yesterday HIT IN FACE Cyclist
John Allan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2011 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

Pakistan security forces foil terror attack in Balochistan - agency

LENGTH: 83 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Quetta, 17 January: Levis Force on Monday [17 January] foiled the terror attempt
and recovered 2 kg explosives from the Chunri area of Chattar.

Official sources told that Levis personnel defused the explosives attached by
the unknown men with power electricity tower.

Levis have registered a case and launched search for the perpetrators.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0944gmt
17 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday

Northwest Pakistan blast "terrorist attack" - police

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Deadly explosion was terrorist attack:
police" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 17 January

Peshawar: A minibus explosion in northwest Pakistan that killed 17 people and
injured 11 others Monday [17 January] was a terrorist attack triggered by a
timed bomb, police said.

Revising an earlier report that the blast had been caused by exploding gas
cylinders, police in Jawarza, near the restive town of Hangu, said the minibus
had been planted with about 10 kilogrammes (22 pounds) of explosives.

"The report of the bomb disposal squad shows that explosive materials fitted
with a timer were placed near the gas cylinders which caused the explosion,"
district police chief Abdul Rashid said.

"The death toll has risen to 17 and five bodies still remain unidentified, as
they have have been burnt very badly," he added.

The mangled and burned-out wreckage of the minibus and another passenger vehicle
were left at the scene.

Rashid said most of the passengers in the minibus had been killed, along with
two people travelling in a pick-up truck nearby when the blast occurred.

Senior police official Masood Khan Afridi confirmed that the blast was caused by
high-intensity explosives.

"It was a terrorist attack," he said. "We are looking for the owner of the
vehicle, as the driver was killed in the blast," he added.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 17 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday

Kyrgyz police continue search for suspects in recent "terror attacks"

LENGTH: 161 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Bishkek, 18 January: Kyrgyzstan's security services are continuing the search
for participants in a terrorist group that took responsibility for a series of
terror attacks in the country.

"Terrorists also planned attacks near the buildings of foreign embassies in the
country's capital," a source in the press service of the State National Security
Committee (SNSC) told Interfax today.

"The SNSC decided to deny allegations of political scientists and human rights
activists who suspect that the security service have detained those who have no
relation to radical groups," the source noted.

According to information from the SNSC, 11 suspects in the terror attacks have
been detained, and three more on the wanted list. The group leader, Sovetbek
Islamov, was killed during an operation to detain him.

[Passage omitted: covered details]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0721 gmt 18 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

DERBY DAY THROAT SLASH TERROR;
Bottle attack outside pub

BYLINE: LAURA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 34 words


AN EVERTON fan had his throat slashed in a bottle attack after the Merseyside
derby.

He was set upon near the old Salisbury Arms pub, now called The Twelfth Man, on
Walton Breck Road.. Full story: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SHOCK: The Twelfth Man pub

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                  2ND Edition

DERBY THROAT SLASH TERROR;
Bottle attack outside pub on football fan family

BYLINE: LAURA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 27 words


AN EVERTON fan had his throat slashed in a bottle attack after the derby.

He was set upon near The Twelfth Man pub, on Walton Breck Road.

. Full story: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SHOCK: The Twelfth Man

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2011 Wednesday

Nearly 60 people killed in terror attacks in Russia's Kabarda-Balkaria in 2010

LENGTH: 348 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Nalchik, 19 January: Thirty-seven employees of the law-enforcement bodies and 20
civilians died as a result of terrorist attacks in Kabarda-Balkaria in 2010,
Interior Minister of the Republic of Kabarda-Balkaria Sergey Vasilyev has said.

Addressing the ministry's board meeting on the results of the past year,
Vasilyev said that the statistics of crimes committed by members of the bandit
underground against residents of the republic made it possible to draw a
conclusion "about the clear inadequacy of the measures taken to stabilize the
situation in the republic, a lack of an adequate reaction to the bandits'
raids", the press service of the Interior Ministry of the Republic of
Kabarda-Balkaria reported on Wednesday [19 January].

"The work of operational services deserves particular criticism. Practically all
the crimes that caused considerable public reaction were committed by people who
had been on the wanted list for more than one year, that is, they do not leave
the territory of the Republic of Kabarda-Balkaria, continuing to draw new
members from among young people into their ranks, and expand the accomplice
base," the press service quoted Vasilyev as saying.

The statement says that the interior minister of the Republic of
Kabarda-Balkaria described the organization of work to deprive the bandit
underground of its financial backing, discover and close channels of its
funding, including from abroad, as being no good at all.

"The failure of this area of work is not the consequence of systemic oversight
of the year 2010, but is that of more than five years," Vasilyev said.

On the basis of the board meeting, the interior minister of the Republic of
Kabarda-Balkaria took a decision to make a whole range of the heads of leading
services and subunits of the ministry answer in a disciplinary manner for
serious failings in their work, which had resulted in impermissibly poor
indicators of operational-service work, the press service noted.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1405 gmt 19 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday

Tajik police reportedly avert two terror attacks

LENGTH: 162 words


Excerpt from report by Russian internet news agency Regnum, specializing in
regional reporting

Two [alleged] terror attacks have been averted in the town of Khujand, the
administrative centre of [northern Tajikistan's] Sughd Region, the Regnum
Novosti news agency has learnt from a source at the regional interior
directorate.

Two suspicious vehicles with transit [presumably temporary registration] numbers
were discovered outside the buildings of the interior directorate and the Sughd
regional state security directorate yesterday evening, the source said.

Six kg of explosive in TNT equivalent was uncovered in one of the vehicles, and
sappers rendered it harmless. "It was not possible to open the second vehicle,
and a decision was made to drown it in the Syr Darya River," the source said.

[Passage omitted: a suicide bomb attack was committed outside a police building
in Khujand in September 2010 - covered]

Source: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0741 gmt 22 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cabby's terror at knifepoint attack;
Taxi driver held up by two thugs who refused to pay

BYLINE: Paul Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 409 words


A TAXI driver has spoken of the "terrifying" moment he was attacked at
knifepoint after two passengers refused to pay a £6.70 fare.

The two men punched and strangled him, before pulling out the six-inch blade and
demanding cash, making off with about £30.

Links Taxis driver Gary Hambling, 36, of Willingham Street, Grimsby, said he now
wants to use his experience to make people aware of the vulnerability of taxi
drivers in the area.

At about 9.30pm on Thursday, Mr Hambling received a call to pick up two men from
a takeaway in Hainton Avenue, Grimsby.

One man got into the front, and another - wearing a hooded top - sat in the
back. They asked to be taken to a car park behind Wingate Parade in the Willows
Estate.

Mr Hambling said: "It seemed strange to be going to that area at night time, so
I thought to myself that I would stay on the main road.

"We were having a normal chat on the way there and everything was totally fine.

"When I pulled on to Wingate Road at about 9.45pm, I looked up to see how much
it would cost and then I felt a blow to the back of my head."

The front passenger had punched him, while the man in the back grabbed him from
behind, strangling him so he couldn't move.

He was punched twice more before the front passenger pulled out a knife and
demanded cash.

Mr Hambling said: "I just said 'take it, take it, I have got a new-born baby'.

"I have done the job for about 15 years and never had anything like that happen,
it was frightening."

He said: "We are very vulnerable.

We are just carrying out a public service and we should have some respect,
because a lot of drivers do not get the gratitude they deserve."

Mr Hambling praised the efficiency of the police who responded to his call.

He said that in the future, when picking up passengers, anyone wearing a hooded
top will be asked to take it off. He is also looking into getting CCTV in his
car.

A spokesman for police in North East Lincolnshire said: "The first suspect who
was travelling in the front passenger seat at the time is described as being a
white male between 20 and 25years old, between 5ft 6 and 5ft 9in tall and clean
shaven.

"He had blond, short, spiky hair and a navy jumper.

"The second suspect, who was travelling in the back seat behind the driver, is
described as being a white male, aged in his 20s, of stocky build, wearing a
grey, hooded top with the hood pulled up."

Can you help? Call Humberside Police on 0845 6060222, quoting log number 619 of
January 20.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKED: Taxi driver Gary Hambling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2011 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Bedfordshire on Sunday

                                January 23, 2011

The shocking story of a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 131 words


Lockerbie: Unfinished Business

Bedford School Theatre

Friday, February 11, 7.30pm



Following a Fringe First Award winning Edinburgh premiere that won national and
international acclaim, Lockerbie: Unfinished Business will be playing in
Bedford.



When 270 people were killed in Britain's worst terrorist atrocity, grieving
father Jim Swire found his faith in his own country's legal system shattered.



His full shocking story is told in this production by writer/performer David
Benson and director Hannah Eidinow.



The show has received plaudits nationally, being described as 'a performance
that must rank as one of the most quietly compelling and finely judged on the
Fringe' (The Daily Telegraph).



Tickets and information are available on 01234 269519 or on
www.bedfordschool.org.uk/theatre

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Beds


                    Copyright 2011 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                            January 24, 2011 Monday

'Dozens dead' in Moscow terror attack

LENGTH: 169  words


At least 31 people have reportedly been killed and 20 injured in a terrorist
suicide bomb attack at Moscow's Domodedovo airport.

The airport is the busiest hub of three in the Russian capital.

The Interfax news agency gave the death toll as 31, while the state-run news
agency RIA said more than 130 people had been injured.

Russian agencies are reporting that the blast occurred inside the airport's
international arrivals hall.

Smoke billowed out of the baggage claim area and people were seen running out of
the emergency exits at the airport, according to local media.

Russia's chief investigator was quoted as saying the blast was a terrorist
attack.

Moscow suffered its worst attack in six years in March 2010 when two female
suicide bombers from Russia's volatile Dagestan region set off explosives in the
metro, killing 40 people.

The Kremlin is struggling to contain an Islamist insurgency in the mainly Muslim
North Caucasus, and rebels have repeatedly vowed they will take their battle to
the Russian heartland.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2011 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan president condemns terror attack in Moscow

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 24 January: President Asif Ali Zardari has strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in Moscow on Monday [24 January], in which many innocent
persons were killed and injured.

In a message to President Dmitry Medvedev, the President Zardari stated that
nothing could justify such terrorist attacks against innocent persons, adding,
the people of Pakistan stood in firm solidarity with the Russian people and
shared their pain and sorrow.

President Zardari said: "Pakistan, itself, has been subjected to numerous
terrorist attacks and we firmly believe that no effort be spared by the
international community to eliminate this blight from the world".

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1753gmt
24 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday

Russian journalists urge more prompt TV coverage of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 802 words


Excerpt from report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 25 January: Russian general television channels must interrupt
broadcasts promptly when tragedies, such as the terrorist attack in Domodedovo
airport [in Moscow on 24 January], take place, and must inform viewers about
events, if only briefly and without "footage", experts have said. [Passage
omitted: details of the attack]

The first news reports with information on the tragedy were aired on [Russia's
state-controlled] Channel One TV, [Gazprom-owned Russian] NTV and [Russian
official state television channel] Rossiya 1. "One cannot say that major general
TV channels were not doing their job," the head of the Television and Radio
Broadcasting Department at the Journalism Faculty at Moscow State University,
Anna Kachkayeva, has said. "Still, a delay of two hours compared to information
already available on news agencies and in other media, on the radio for example,
and I am not even talking about Twitter or social media, probably annoys the
people who would like to see this appear more promptly and intelligibly," she
added. This is a second terrorist attack to show that television is "hopelessly
lagging behind, given its technology and the impossibility of narrating events
without images", she said.

The previous large-scale transport-related terrorist attack in Russia took place
on 29 March 2010, when two female suicide bombers blew themselves up on the
Lubyanka and Park Kultury underground stations in Moscow. A total of 40 people
died and 100 people were injured then. Accusations were also launched then over
channels "lagging behind".

"Of course by and large, as soon as information comes in, [broadcasts] should be
interrupted and in this case it does not matter whether there is footage or not.
Many are held back as radio is one thing, and television requires pictures. But
in reality, nothing is preventing us from simply giving information. One can
simply show views of Domodedovo and say the first thing that is available,"
journalist Svetlana Sorokina said for her part. General television news channels
"are quite sluggish and not quick to react to urgent developments", she added.
"Although this is strange because our life has taught us that these abnormal
situations occur with dismaying frequency. News services must therefore already
be adapted to this," she said. Sorokina also recalled that during the March
terrorist attacks in the underground, "major TV channels grounded to a halt" and
did not immediately go on air with information about the incident.

Major TV channels always take into account that people "should not be irritated
or disturbed", Kachkayeva said. "However, when a sense of tragedy persists, yet
there is laughter and soap operas being shown during evening prime time, this
provokes certain dissonance," she added. "There are certain human factors that
perhaps should not be shown as means of respect for a tragedy, compassion for
those affected," she said. "For example, Dozhd TV channel went live 10 minutes
after the tragedy was reported. [State-owned English language] Russia Today and
[state-owned 24-hour Russian language] Rossiya 24 channels had rolling captions
by 1700 [Moscow time; 1400 gmt] and after, and the presenter tried to keep
viewers up to date even without footage, by reading out news agency reports,"
she added. Furthermore, the TV channel STS cancelled its scheduled evening
premiere of its "Technology of a big explosion" project.

At the same time, the experts remarked that general TV channels gave quite full
coverage to the Domodedovo attack after 1900 [Moscow time; 1600 gmt]. "In the
evening, they (the general TV channels) constantly interrupted their programmes
for reports that by and large were repeated but were accompanied by what the
Russian president [Dmitriy Medvedev] and (health and social development
minister) Tatyana Golikova had said. The initial figures from the Russian
Emergencies Ministry were given and there was some elaboration. But I maintain
that information should be reported immediately, at least factually," Sorokina
added.

According to Kachkayeva, "television is not likely to be this source of
information" for the majority of people who are used to getting information
online. "But one should understand that under such circumstances, people are
still waiting, the TV is still switched on, and even if they are distracted by
entertainment and the radio is on and there is Internet access, television is
still a very important means of communication with people, and for reporting
tragedies. That is why it is important to consider a combination of speed and
responsibility," she added.

RIA Novosti has not received comments from the TV channels on this subject yet.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0956 gmt 25 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan PM condemns terror attack in Moscow

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 24 January: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani has strongly
condemned the terrorist attack in Moscow, in which many precious lives were lost
and a large number of persons have been injured.

The prime minister in a message to his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin,
conveyed the sentiments of the government and people of Pakistan and said that
the government and people of Pakistan expressed their complete solidarity with
the people and leadership of Russia. "We strongly condemn this heinous act of
terrorism against innocent persons, which further underscores the imperative
need for the international community to unite strengths and efforts in combating
terrorism," the prime minister said.

Pakistan, the prime minister said, itself has been subjected to numerous
terrorist attacks in which thousands of persons have been killed. "We understand
and share the pain and sorrow of the Russian people and offer to the Russian
leadership and all those affected our sincere sympathies and condolences," he
said.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1811gmt
24 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

CARNAGE;
35 KILLED IN SUICIDE TERROR ATTACK AT MOSCOW AIRPORT

BYLINE: GREIG BOX TURNBULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 475 words


TWO Britons were last night said to be among 35 people killed in a suicide bomb
blast at Moscow's busiest airport.

The terrorist shouted "I will kill you all" moments before setting off his
devastating device, which was packed with shrapnel, screws and metal balls to
cause maximum carnage.

More than 180 people were injured when it ripped through the crowds near the
busy Asia Cafe as friends and relatives greeted passengers in the arrivals hall
at Domodedovo airport.

The bomber unleashed his attack at 16.32 just four minutes before BMI flight
BD891 landed from the UK.

Most of the Brits on that jet and the 165 people on BA flight BA872, which had
landed 45 minutes earlier, were believed to have escaped the carnage.

Mark Green, a passenger from the UK, had only been out of the terminal for two
minutes when the bomb went off as heavy snow fell.

He said: "Literally, it shook you. As we were picking up the bags to put them
into the back of the car, there was an almighty explosion. It reverberated
through our bodies. There was a pause of 30 seconds before people started
running out of the terminal, s o m e we r e injured, some were covered in blood.

"People were obviously in a state of shock and panic.

"Security services were running around trying to keep people to one side, keep
people calm, trying to move the injured to one side."

Witness Artyom Zhilenkov said: "He exploded right in front of my eyes. A man in
a black coat, black hat - I noticed nothing else as he walked out of the check
out zone and e x p l o d e d t o pieces.

"I only survived because I stood b e t we e n t h e columns with many people
waiting in f r o n t of me."

Alexey Spiridonov, who works at a car rental company close to where the bomb
exploded, added: "Lots of body parts were around, blood was everywhere. Such a
horrific scene." A police source said a severed head belived to belong to a
suicide bomber was found among the bodies. He was reported to be an
"arab-looking man aged 30-35".

"The head belongs to a man from the Caucasus aged 30 to 35," said the source.
The Caucasus includes the tinderbox republics of Chechnya and Dagestan, both
with strong Islamic extremists opposing Moscow's rule.

Russian president Dmitry Medvedev cancelled a planned trip to Switzerland after
the outrage and imposed a security clampdown at all airports and train stations.
He vowed: "The organisers will be tracked down and punished."

Security was immediately stepped up across the Russian capital, on the metro and
at the other two airports.

In Britain the Foreign Office warned against travel to Russia.

Security at Domodedovo, Russia's busiest airport faced criticism in 2004 after
two suicide bombers blew themselves up in mid-air, killing all 90 people aboard
two flights.

Late last night there were claims authorities may have been warned about a
possible terror attack a week ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR J Bloodied victims of the bomb RESCUE 3 Medics help a bomb
victim SHOCK J A child weeps on his mother

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

'I WANT TO KILL YOU ALL';
35 DIE IN SUICIDE TERROR ATTACK AT PACKED AIRPORT

BYLINE: GREIG BOX TURNBULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 452 words


A SUICIDE bomber shouted: "I will kill you all" moments before setting off his
device that slaughtered 35 people at Moscow's busiest airport.

The bomb was packed with shrapnel, screws and metal balls to cause maximum
carnage.

More than 180 people were injured when it ripped through the crowds near the
busy Asia Cafe as friends and relatives greeted passengers in the arrivals hall
at Domodedovo airport.

Mark Green, a passenger from the UK, had only been out of the terminal for two
minutes when the bomb went off at 4.32pm as heavy snow fell. He said:
"Literally, it shook you.

"As we were picking up the bags to put them into the back of the car, there was
an almighty explosion.

"It reverberated through our bodies. There was a pause of 30 seconds before
people started running out of the terminal, some were injured, some were covered
in blood.

"People were obviously in a state of shock and panic.

"Security services were running around trying to keep people to one side, keep
people calm, trying to move the injured to one side."

Witness Artyom Zhilenkov said: 'He exploded right in front of my eyes. A man in
a black coat, black hat -I noticed nothing else as he walked out of the check
out zone and exploded to pieces.

I only survived because I stood between the columns with many people waiting in
front of me."

Alexey Spiridonov, who works at a car rental company close to where the bomb
exploded, added: "Lots of body parts were around, blood was everywhere. Such a
horrific scene."

A police source said a severed head believed to belong to a suicide bomber was
found among the bodies.

He was reported to be an "arab-looking man aged 30-35".

"The head belongs to a man from the Caucasus aged 30 to 35," said the source.

The Caucasus includes the tinderbox republics of Chechnya and Dagestan, both
with strong Islamic extremists opposing Moscow's rule.

Russian president Dmitry Medvedev cancelled a planned trip to Switzerland after
the outrage and imposed a security clampdown at all airports and train stations.

He vowed: "The organisers will be tracked down and punished."

Security was immediately stepped up across the Russian capital, on the metro and
at the other two airports, which received diverted passengers.

Security at Domodedovo, Russia's busiest airport faced criticism in 2004 after
two suicide bombers bought tickets illegally from airport personnel and boarded
planes there.

They blew themselves up in mid-air, killing all 90 people aboard two flights.

In March the Russian capital's underground system was rocked by two female
suicide bombers from Russia's volatile Dagestan region, who detonated their
explosives on the busy metro system during rush hour, killing 40 people and
injuring more than 80.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHAKEN 3Girl tells her family she is alive SHOCK J A child weeps on his
mother EVACUATED nInjured are taken away RESCUE 3 Medics help a bomb victim
CARNAGE J Victims of bomb horror

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

TV show discusses reasons behind terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 573 words


Karachi-based Dawn News in Urdu at 1505 gmt on 25 January 11 broadcasts their
regularly scheduled investigative talks show "Reporter." Hosted by seasoned
journalist Arshad Sharif, "Reporter" provides "news and critical discussion"
focusing on military affairs, war on terrorism, and other major political events
in Pakistan. Participants include prominent analysts and political
personalities.

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Guests: 1. Senator Haroon Akhtar; 2. Zafar Ali Shah, leader Pakistan Muslim
League - Nawaz [PML-N]; 3. Pakistan People Party [PPP] leader Yasmin Rehman.

Arshad Sharif begins the programme by saying that he will discuss reasons behind
terrorist incidents and law and order situation in Pakistan. Sharif states over
4,000 people had been in killed in Pakistan since 2002 in different suicide and
bomb blasts.

Akhtar says these incidents are taking place due to intelligence failure. Akhtar
questions why intelligence agencies have failed to track down financial sources
and training centres of the terrorists. Akhtar points out towards increasing
intolerance in Pakistan and says even peaceful religious rallies are not
tolerated in the country.

Sharif asks Shah whether there is any international link to the terrorist
attacks in Pakistan in order to create sectarian conflict. Shah replies: "I am
100 per cent sure that there is an international interference". Shah adds
Pakistan has involved itself in the war on terror to a point where it cannot
pull back. Shah reiterates it is evident that terrorist attacks are part of
international conspiracy. Shah opines Pakistan needs a foreign policy review.

Sharif questions regardless of international element, why have we failed to
destroy terrorist camps that exist in Pakistan. Akhtar says some Gulf countries
are supporting certain sects and Pakistan cannot name these countries as
Pakistan has good relations with these countries. Akhtar is of the point of view
that Pakistan should serve its interests first. Shah claims India is running
terrorists camps in Pakistan.

Sharif asks Rehman what the government has done to eliminate terrorist camps in
Pakistan. Rehman says president of Pakistan is pursuing policy of education and
development in the areas where suicide bombers are recruited from.

Shah claims the government is incompetent and unwilling to deal with the issue.
Dawn news correspondent Hassan updates on suicide attack in Lahore. Akhtar says
when state fails to provide education to the young, parents send their children
to religious schools. He adds it is difficult for the graduates of religious
schools to get a job. Thus, he states, it is easier to corrupt the minds of such
children. Akhtar also suggests many countries pledged to establish employment
opportunity zones in tribal areas. However, he claims, the present government
has not done any work in this regard. Rehman negates Akhtar by saying that
Pakistan did not receive any funding for the mentioned plan.

Sharif asks Shah what steps opposition parties can take to counter terrorism in
Pakistan. Shah says opposition is not creating hurdles for the government and it
is allowing the government to functions smoothly in order to tackle all the
issues. Shah reiterates Pakistan needs to change its foreign policy.

Talk show continues to discuss role of parliament in economic policies. Sharif
thanks the guests and concludes the programme.

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1505gmt 25 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Moscow airport attack "ominous shift" in terrorists' strategy - SAfrican paper

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of report by South African privately-owned, established daily newspaper The
Star on 26 January

[Editorial: "Moscow Terror"]

Monday's suicide bombing at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport represents an ominous
shift in strategy by terrorists seeking to publicise their cause.

No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, which left at least 36 people
dead, including four foreigners and at least 110 injured, including visitors. It
is hard to see how targeting foreigners by bombing the international arrivals
hall of Russia's busiest airport would garner any sympathy for the bombers, with
the attack bearing the hallmark of militants fighting for a separatist state in
the North Caucasus region.

Perhaps sympathy is not what these terrorists are looking for, but rather to put
pressure on the Russian government by hitting at tourism and harming investor
confidence. But in those aims, too, their attack was misplaced. Tourism has
never begun to reach its potential in Russia and as for foreign investment, a
sad reality of the world today is that terror can strike anywhere at any time.

Instead the result of the attack will be twofold: a strict tightening of
security at Russian transport hubs and all the inconvenience which comes with
that, and a vicious response by the Russian authorities to the presumed
attackers, and all the bloodshed which comes with that.

Source: The Star, Johannesburg, in English 26 Jan 11 p 14

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Terrorist attacks affect Russia's investment attractiveness - president's envoy

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Davos, 26 January: Although terrorist attacks have an impact on the investment
attractiveness of Russia, terrorist threats exist in other countries too, the
Russian president's envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District Aleksandr
Khloponin has said.

"Any terrorist attack affects the investment climate not only, say, in the North
Caucasus, but also in Russia as a whole. These are questions of security, these
are very serious questions and the threat of terrorism is not limited to
Russia," Khloponin told reporters at a briefing in Davos.

Khloponin recalled that recently increased security measures had been introduced
in European countries, such as Germany and the UK

He said that the situation in Russia's North Caucasus is "tense but stable" and
stressed that a lot of work needs to be done to combat terrorism, violent crime,
and corruption, and to resolve employment problems in that region.

Speaking about security measures in that region, Khloponin stressed that work
was being done in this area non-stop, including in transport security.

"Because we in the Caucasus have become accustomed to this threat, we take
precautionary measures very seriously. This work is being done," Khloponin said.

Speaking about the Domodedovo airport tragedy [a suicide bomb attack in which
over 30 people died on 24 January], Khloponin said suicide bombers who commit
terrorist attacks present a new challenge to security systems, and that the
prevention of such attacks is a difficult task.

"You can not put a metal detector on each square centimetre. If you install a
metal detector at the airport entrance, a large number of people will gather
there and a suicide bomber can set off an explosive device in the crowd that is
waiting to get through," Khloponin said.

He recalled a recent terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz, when a terrorist was not
allowed to enter the market, so he set off the bomb nearby. In this case
intelligence work and very tight interaction between intelligence agencies and
the public are very important.

The envoy said that, for example, a very large number of terrorist attacks had
prevented in the North Caucasus.

"I can say that intelligence services managed to prevent about 100 terrorist
attacks in the North Caucasus, and in Russia too, last year," Khloponin said.

Nevertheless, he stressed that lessons must be learnt from the Domodedovo
tragedy.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1615 gmt 26 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FATHER KILLED IN AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK;
Sleaford businessman dead afterMoscow bomb blast

BYLINE: Emma Pearson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 211 words


A LINCOLNSHIRE father-ofone was among 35 people killed in the bombing of Moscow
airport.

Gordon Cousland, 39, had a six-month-old daughter and was due to get married in
the spring.

The property consultant, who grew up in Scredington, near Sleaford, had just
landed in Russia when he became caught up in the horrific blast in the airport's
crowded international arrivals hall on Monday afternoon.

His brother, Robin, who farms near Scredington, said: "He was going to Russia on
Monday and we heard a blast reported on the radio and thought 'oh no, he could
be involved'.

"We tried to phone his mobile phone and could not get an answer.

Normally, when he visits a place, he is pretty good at phoning to say he has
arrived.

"As the evening went on, we heard nothing from him and began to fear the worst.

"Late Monday night, we passed information to the Foreign Office as we thought he
was missing and his company were doing the same thing and they couldn't contact
him.

"We received word later that night about it."

Mr Cousland, who was due to marry his fiancée in April, is the youngest of five
children. The rest of his family are from Scotland.

The blast, which killed 35 people and injured another 110, is believed to be the
work of separatist terrorists.

FULL STORY... SEE PAGE 2

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Gordon Cousland, of Sleaford, who died in an apparent suicide
attack at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport, right.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2011 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

GRIPPED BY FEAR;
Park is a no-go zone after sex attack terror

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


TERRIFIED women yesterday told how a Paisley park has become a 'no-go zone' as
cops hunt an evil sex beast who struck in broad daylight.

The pervert - who subjected a 46-year-old woman to a nightmare ordeal in Barshaw
Park - was still at large yesterday and a number of families have vowed to steer
clear of the area until he is caught.

Police have appealed for help to track down the twisted fiend, who dragged his
victim into bushes, tried to rape her, held a pair of scissors at her throat and
slashed her on the face.

When the Paisley Daily Express paid a visit to the park yesterday afternoon, it
was virtually deserted and the few visitors who had ventured out said the sex
attack has left them feeling uneasy.

Mum-of-two Elaine Russell, 47, told the Express: "I have friends who are no
longer coming to the park because they are worried about what happened and you
really can't blame them.

"Instead, they are going to another park a few miles away.

"The sooner this man is caught, the better." Archie Peters, 65, who has lived
near Barshaw Park for most of his life, added: "People are scared to go there
now - and no wonder.

"Whoever this attacker is, he's dangerous and there is a real fear that he could
strike again.

"I know more police have been in and around the park since the attack happened
and it's good to see officers on patrol but it's fair to say that everyone will
breathe easier when this pervert is arrested."

Paisley couple Myra and FrankWest, who also live close to Barshaw Park, said
they have been left horrified by the sex attack.

Myra told the Express: "It's awful to think that the Turn to Page 5

From Page One poor woman just went for a walk in the park and this happened to
her.

"I find it all very frightening but at least I've got Frank with me to make me
feel safe."

The powerfully-built sex beast struck as his victim was walking alone close to
Barshaw House - a former care home and hospital which is now occupied by luxury
flats - on January 20.

He jumped on her back, sexually assaulted her, threatened to kill her and
slashed her.

As the thug ran off, his brave victim managed to stagger to a shop more than
half a mile away and staff there alerted the police.

She is still recovering from her nightmare ordeal.

Last night, police hunting the pervert said they are waiting for the results of
forensic tests and are following up a number of lines of inquiry - but still
need more help from the public.

Anyone with information about the attack is asked to ring Paisley Police Office
on 0141 532 5900 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

From Page One poor woman [...]

Sex attack turns park into no-go zone

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DESERTED: Barshaw Park CONCERNED: Elaine Russell, above left, and Myra
and Frank West

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

Ethiopia downplays fears of terrorist attack at AU summit

LENGTH: 357 words


Text of report by Argaw Ashine entitled "Ethiopia downplays fears of terrorist
attack at AU summit" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 27 January

Ethiopian authorities have downplayed the 'reliable terrorist attack risk' at
the forthcoming African Union (AU) summit later this week in Addis Ababa,
notified by Western countries.

Ethiopia's Foreign Ministry's spokesperson Ambassador Dina Muftui told the
Nation that the country was aware of the risk but it was not beyond the control
of the government.

"It is not such imminent and Ethiopian security have contained possible threats
and its security forces are working to ensure safety. There is a threat and we
are aware of it but it's a bit exaggerated by Western countries," Ambassador
Dina said.

He added, "Our region is always prone to terrorist attack and it's not such a
surprise for such kind of alert."

Several Western governments have warned their citizens in Ethiopia of credible
threats of terrorist bomb attacks during the AU summit.

Australia's Foreign Ministry issued a serious security alert for Ethiopia on its
website. Other Western embassies in Addis Ababa, including US and Britain have
also sent out a warning.

French President Nicolas Sarkozy, UN chief Ban Ki-Moon and more than 30 African
head of states are expected to attend the summit in Addis Ababa this week.

Ethiopia has blamed its arch-foe Eritrea for a move to discredit Ethiopia's
ability to host the summit.

A week ago, Ethiopian security forces arrested seven individuals who are
allegedly trained in Eritrea and a member of Ethiopian rebels in Ogaden (Somali)
region of Eastern Ethiopia.

The Somali extremist group Al-Shabab claimed responsibility for twin suicide
bomb attacks in the Ugandan capital, Kampala last July, weeks before the city
hosted the last AU summit. More than 70 people were killed in the blasts, which
struck two public viewing centres during the World Cup soccer finals.

Ethiopian government has installed tight security all over the city in Addis
Ababa, including public places surrounding of the city.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 27 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

Slovak analyst: terror attack raises questions about Russia's internal stability

LENGTH: 480 words


Text of report by Slovak privately-owned independent newspaper Sme website, on
26 January

[Commentary by Peter Schutz: "Terror in Instalments"]

Russia does not have such strong a symbol as 9/11 and the Twin Towers, but it
has all the more candidates for such an emblematic milestone. This time,
Domodedovo is the most recent entry in the very long list of venues of horrors -
Budyonovsk, Dubrovka, Beslan, and so forth.

In the coming days, analysts of strategic security and Russia's internal policy
will pick apart the causes that led to the tragedy and questions of whether or
not it was preventable. From the safe (?) [question mark as published] distance
of Central Europe, it is possible to postulate that Russia is among the world
epicentres of terror, which is testified to by a list of approximately 20
incidents of this type since the time when Vladimir Putin became president for
the first time.

We can think only the worst about Chechens, Dagestanians, Ingushetians (and
others), or, more precisely, the fundamentalist wings of their national
resistance. However, a decade of terror - with the most recent and,
unfortunately, probably not the last, stop at Domodedovo - primarily destroys
the myth about Putin as a politician who brought peace and order to Russia after
the "crazy" era of Yeltsin.

This is not meant to say that it is guaranteed that a standard democrat of a
European type would handle the Caucasus issue from the Kremlin. It only means
that "controlled democracy," which the Russian specifics allegedly require, has
also failed and continues to fail.

Current President [Dmitriy] Medvedev speaks of "anarchy" prevailing at the
airport. The investigation, if it is not manipulated, will hopefully produce a
certain trustworthy version about responsibility and culprits.

Let us keep to ourselves the speculation that the investigation will be
restricted to airport personnel and will not go to higher echelons, but in a
situation where it is known that air transport is a magical target for
assassins, the inability of the authorities to guard elementary security proves
that the Russian state is a combination of chaos and corruption. This is one of
the reasons why Medvedev's wish to introduce security measures of Israeli or US
types in Russia must be taken with a hefty grain of salt.

If the US ambassador to Moscow says (what luck that we have WikiLeaks!) that "in
present-day Russia, secret services cooperate with classic organized crime," it
also does not come as a great surprise that intelligence information, which was
allegedly available, was not used in a timely fashion.

Russia has another horrible disaster caused by fanatics behind it. Along with
sympathies that the incident has provoked, it has also raised, with a new
urgency, a question about the basic internal stability of this superpower.

Source: Sme website, Bratislava, in Slovak 26 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Georgia's President says terror attack in Moscow was 'payback'

BYLINE: Shaun Walker and Kim Sengupta in Tbilisi

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 419 words


Mikheil Saakashvili, the President of Georgia, told The Independent yesterday
that attacks like Monday's suicide bombing at a Moscow airport were "payback"
for Russia's policies in the North Caucasus, as he compared the country to a
"crocodile ready to swallow you up".

Mr Saakashvili and the Russian leadership have exchanged regular insults since
the 2008 war between the countries over the breakaway territories of South
Ossetia and Abkhazia, but his comments are likely to enrage Moscow, coming so
soon after the blast at Domodedovo Airport that killed 35 people.

Speaking in the Georgian capital last night, President Saakashvili - whose
country's two breakaway regions are recognised by Moscow as independent states -
accused Russia of trying to destabilise neighbouring countries by encouraging
secessionist movements.

"I discussed this personally with Vladimir Putin a while ago. I said to him that
the payback for his country for supporting separatists would be that violence
would come back to hit them as well," Mr Saakashvili said. "Putin said, 'No, if
anyone tries anything against us, we shall crush them like cockroaches,' while
jabbing and twisting his thumb on the table in front him."

Before his interview with The Independent, the Georgian President made similar
comments in a televised question-and-answer session. "Russia has a political
mentality which is on the level of a reptile, like a crocodile ready to swallow
you up," Mr Saakashvili said. There is a well-documented personal enmity between
Mr Saakashvili and Mr Putin. The Georgian President once said that talking to Mr
Putin was "like somebody standing with an axe at your head and saying: "Don't
worry, everything's OK, close your eyes and relax.'"

Mr Putin, meanwhile, has made fun of the time that BBC cameras caught Mr
Saakashvili chewing the end of his tie. He also reportedly told French President
Nicolas Sarkozy that he wanted to "hang" Mr Saakashvili "by the balls".

Critics of Mr Saakashvili, who came to power in the Rose Revolution of 2003
promising democratic reforms, worry that the Georgian President is aiming to
become a powerful prime minister when his second presidential term ends in 2013,
just as Mr Putin did in 2008.

Yesterday, Mr Putin said preliminary investigations into Monday's blast
suggested that the bomber did not come from Chechnya. It was unclear whether he
meant he had no links to the North Caucasus, or was from a neighbouring republic
such as Dagestan. He also ruled out negotiation with terrorist groups.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

Woman's rape attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 178 words


A WOMAN was raped in a horrific attack by two men as she made her way home from
a night out.

One man held her arms behind her back while the other raped her.

The victim was attacked in Blackley in the early hours of Sunday.

She managed to break free and run off.

The man who raped her was described as a tall white man, wearing a grey jumper
with a zip and a hood and blue jeans.

Det Con Guy Laycock, from North Manchester CID, said: This was a horrible and
frightening experience for this young woman.

We are determined to find her attackers and ensure justice is done for her.

If you saw something in the early hours of Sunday morning or know something that
might help us catch the person responsible, please contact me.

I'd also like to remind people of some things to help them stay safe while out:
plan your journeys meticulously, arrange transport in advance, travel in groups
where possible and, if you must walk on your own, stick to busy well-lit areas.

Anyone with any information on the incident should call 0161 856 3566 or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Critics attack reworking of terror orders;
National newsround

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words


PLANS to relax restrictions imposed on suspected terrorists and rebrand
controversial powers used to keep tabs on them are little more than "control
orders lite", critics have said.

Liberty, the civil liberties campaign group, accused the Government of bottling
the decision on the future of counter-terrorism powers, saying, "control orders
are retained and rebranded, if in a slightly lower-fat form".

The new powers announced by Home Secretary Theresa May will no longer need to be
reviewed every year, a clear signal that the restrictions against suspected
terrorists against whom prosecutions cannot be brought are here to stay.

The term "control order" has been scrapped and will be replaced with "Terrorism
Prevention and Investigation Measures".

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

I sat on the ground as they [...];
MODEL BAIBA'S ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: FIONA WYNNE; JASON JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 552 words


A STUNNING model's dreams of a catwalk career are hanging by a thread after a
vicious attack.

Baiba Engele has told how she is terrified to leave her home following the
unprovoked assault.

The Latvian-born 24-year-old beauty was repeatedly kicked with high heels and
punched by two WOMEN.

Baiba was jumped on from behind as she left Bed's nightclub on Francis Street in
Newry, Co Down. She was kicked in the head, stomach and legs during the beating
last weekend.

The model was left bleeding on the ground and rushed by police to Daisy Hill
Hospital in the city.

She was later treated at Dublin's St Vincent's Hospital and has since been
allowed home.

One line of inquiry is that the attack may have been racially motivated.

Baiba said: "I was at the nightclub celebrating a friend's birthday and these
two girls began picking on me - I have no idea why, only they can answer that.

"I don't know if they were jealous or if it was racial or what the problem was.

"After the nightclub closed we were outside and all of a sudden they came up
behind me and attacked me.

Shocked "It has all been caught on CCTV cameras. I really can't even remember
all the details as I was so shocked.

"I remember sitting on the ground and they were kicking me in the legs and the
stomach and the head. I remember covering my face and my head as best I could.

"The police and the bouncers pulled them away from me.

"The police brought me to hospital then and I also had to go to hospital in St
Vincent's for three hours to get more check-ups.

"My head is really swollen and it's very sore. Mostly I'm just shaken. I keep
thinking how easy it would be to kill someone, especially with high heels, it
was very shocking.

"Nothing like this has even happened to me before. My ankle is sprained and my
ribs are bruised and sore.

"I know it's just two individuals - I've been in Ireland for five years and have
never had anything bad to say about the people.

"I am frightened to be on the street or in the house on my own now though. It's
a horrible experience."

Her spokesman added: "Baiba's a very quiet person and she was just out with
friends for a regular night out.

"She got a real hiding from these girls for no reason, she does get attention
from men of course, but what can she do - live in a bubble? "Nobody deserves to
be treated like this. She will need a lot of help to get over it."

One 23-year-old woman has been arrested by police probing the incident.

Cops were yesterday continuing to scour CCTV footage of the street from the
early hours of Sunday.

Blonde Baiba, a multi-media student at Dundalk Institute of Technology, moved to
Ireland aged 18.

The 5ft 8in beauty was spotted by a scout at Dublin's DCFE online clothing
retailer and has since seen her career take off. The PSNI said officers were
called to an incident in the area early on Sunday.

A spokeswoman said: "Shortly before 2.30am it was reported that a woman aged in
her 20s had been assaulted.

"She was taken to hospital by police with injuries which, at the time, were not
believed to be life-threatening."

The arrested woman was charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm and
disorderly behaviour and made an initial appearance at Newry Magistrates' Court
on Monday.

It's understood that cops are seeking a second female in connection with the
attack.

fiona.wynne@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In recovery... but Baiba has been afraid to leave house since attack
Horror beating... stunner Baiba was viciously attacked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

No evidence of stone shrapnel in Moscow airport terror attack

LENGTH: 296 words


Law enforcement agencies do not possess confirmed information about the
involvement of Palestinian terrorists in the blast that occurred at Moscow's
Domodedovo airport on 24 January, Russian news agency Interfax reported on 28
January, quoting a source in the investigations group.

"We have no information to prove this," the source said.

Earlier the newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta reported that the terrorists used the
so-called "stone" bomb in Domodedovo terrorist attack. Bombs like this are
largely applied by Palestinian suicide bombers, the newspaper added.

Today it is known that the bomb that was activated at the airport was filled
with fragments of metal fittings and small metal balls. The stone shrapnel found
in the bodies of the dead and injured could have come off the floor of the
airport arrivals hall, where the attack took place, the source added.

Later Russian news agency RIA Novosti quoted doctors of Moscow in-patient
clinics who say they did not take out any granite chips from the tissues of
those injured as a result of the Domodedovo terrorist attack when they performed
operations on them.

Doctors of the Moscow in-patient clinic number 20 told RIA Novosti that only
metal fragments were removed from the tissues of the two people injured in the
attack. The doctors said their state of health is satisfactory. Konstantin
Kotenko, the director-general of the federal medical and biophysical centre
named after Burnazyan, is quoted as saying that plastic was also removed from
the tissues. "In a confined space, with kiosks and other objects nearby, you
would have plastic and other fragments [in the tissues]," Kotenko said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0648 gmt 28 Jan 11; RIA Novosti
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0721 gmt 28 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan to again seek access to Mumbai terror attack witnesses - report

LENGTH: 402 words


Text of report by Indian news agency Text PTI

Islamabad, 28 January: Pakistan will again seek access to witnesses of the 2008
Mumbai terror attacks to record their statements and a formal request will be
filed with India in this regard, according to a media report on Friday [28
January].

This will be the second time that Pakistan will be making such a request,
unnamed officials of the Interior Ministry were quoted as saying by 'The Express
Tribune' newspaper.

The Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) has identified 16 Indian citizens to
testify regarding information shared by Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving attacker
who has been sentenced to death by an Indian court.

If permission is received from New Delhi, a two-member Federal Investigation
Agency (FIA) team will travel to India and also discuss matters pertaining to
post-mortem reports with officials of police stations in Mumbai, the officials
were quoted as saying.

The commission will also consult legal experts who are "contesting Kasab's case
on behalf of the federation in the anti-terrorism court No 3 in Rawalpindi", the
report said.

Interior Minister Rehman Malik had requested his Indian counterpart P
Chidambaram last year to allow a special team of the FIA to record statements of
witnesses and key personalities, including the magistrate who recorded Kasab's
confession and the police officer who led the investigation into the Mumbai
terror attacks that killed 166 people.

In a related development, an FIA investigation team has informed the interior
minister that the probe was not making any progress "because of India's
unwillingness to allow the Pakistani commission to record Indian investigators'
statements".

"During investigations, Kasab told the Indian magistrate that two majors of
Pakistan Army were involved in the pre-attack conspiracy," the newspaper quoted
its sources as saying.

The FIA has also filed a petition in the Lahore High Court asking for Kasab and
Fahim Ansari to be declared proclaimed offenders or fugitives.

Khwaja Sultan, the counsel for Lashkar-i-Toiba commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi,
one of the seven accused in Pakistan, contended there was no legal basis for
Pakistani investigators recording the statements of Indian nationals.

"How can FIA officials record statements of Indian citizens? There is no such
treaty between the two countries," he said

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1514gmt 28 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday

Russian investigators report solving Domodedovo airport terrorist attack

LENGTH: 122 words


The terrorist attack at Moscow's Domodedovo airport committed on 24 January has
been solved, the official spokesman for the Russian Investigations Committee,
Vladimir Markin, has said, as reported by Russian RIA Novosti news agency on 29
January. Further details will be made public later, the report quoted him as
saying.

"There are a number of suspects who are being investigated for their involvement
in organizing and carrying out the terrorist attack at Domodedovo. Efforts to
detain them are under way," a source in the law-enforcement agencies told
Interfax news agency later on the same day.

Sources: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1025 gmt 29 Jan 11;
Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1035 gmt 29 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Activist killed in terror blast attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 78 words


A prominent Afghan doctor, his rights activist wife and four of their children
were all killed in Friday s suicide attack on a Kabul supermarket.

Hameeda Barmaki, a professor at Kabul University and child rights activist at
the country s Independent Human Rights Commission, was shopping with her family
when the blast ripped through a three-storey shop. The Taliban claimed
responsibility for the attack, saying they were targeting the head of a foreign
security company.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Moscow blast;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 110 words


Moscow blast 1 Russia Two London businessmen were among 35 people killed when a
female suicide bomber attacked a Moscow airport on Monday. Gordon Cousland, 39,
and Kirill Bodrashov, 38, died in the international arrivals hall at Domodedovo
airport, Russia's busiest. Just before detonating her explosives, the terrorist
screamed, "I will kill you all." At least 168 people were wounded.

Chechen militants, who have been behind other terrorist acts in Russia,
including last year's double suicide bombing on the Moscow underground that
killed 40, are the main suspects.

Cousland's brother, Robin, said, "We're all just completely shocked. It's
devastated the family."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A hug and a kiss [...];
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 24 words


A hug and a kiss from a bull elephant seal for his mate on South Georgia in the
southern Atlantic Ocean, captured by the photographer Michael Nolan

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Allen stumped;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 117 words


Allen stumped 10 America On Wednesday a federal judge in Houston, Texas ordered
the billionaire Allen Stanford to undergo detox for a drug addiction that has
rendered him incompetent to stand trial. At a hearing earlier this month a
district judge, David Hittner, declared Stanford unfit to stand trial on charges
that he led a £4.5 billion fraud scheme based in Antigua. Psychiatrists said his
addiction to an anti-anxiety medication as well as a brain injury he suffered in
2009 in a jail fight have left him unable to think clearly.

The financier, who created the eponymous Stanford Super Series Twenty20 cricket
competition, has pleaded not guilty to 21 counts of fraud, money laundering and
obstruction.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brought to book;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 144 words


Brought to book 9 Japan The man facing charges of raping and murdering the
British teacher Lindsay Hawker in 2007 has written a book detailing his time on
the run. Tatsuya Ichihashi was arrested in 2009, 2Å years after the
22-year-old's body was found buried in sand in a bathtub on the balcony of his
Tokyo flat.

Ichihashi, 32, wrote the book, Until I Was Arrested, in the 14 months after he
was caught. It documents his efforts to change his appearance by cutting his
lips with scissors to make them appear thinner and slicing moles off his face.
He also paid to have plastic surgery - and was caught when doctors reported
their suspicions about him to police.

Ichihashi is in custody awaiting trial and has offered to donate proceeds from
the book to Lindsay's family, who issued a statement saying they were
"disgusted" that he was being allowed to publish the book.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Accused in court;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 80 words


Accused in court 8 America Jared Loughner, the man accused of the Tucson,
Arizona, shootings that left six people dead, pleaded not guilty on Monday to
charges of attempting to assassinate the congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and
murdering two of her staff.

Loughner, 22, did not speak but smiled broadly throughout the hearing. If his
defence team successfully pleads insanity and he is convicted of the shootings
on January 8, he could be sent to a mental hospital rather than jail.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hero honoured;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 90 words


Hero honoured 7 Australia A solider has been awarded the Victoria Cross, the
country's highest military honour. Corporal Benjamin Roberts-Smith, 32, was
given the medal for single-handedly overpowering Taliban machinegunners
attacking his platoon in Kandahar province in Afghanistan last October.

"You went to Afghanistan a soldier; you came back a hero," the country's prime
minister, Julia Gillard, said at the ceremony last Sunday. Roberts-Smith, the
father of twin girls, said: "I saw a lot of brave men do a lot of brave things
that day."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Extended family;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 115 words


Extended family 6 America The talk show host Oprah Winfrey revealed on air on
Monday that she has discovered a half-sister she previously did not know about.
Winfrey, 57, described it as "the miracle of all miracles", and said that she
learnt last autumn about Patricia, her half-sister who was given up for adoption
by their mother soon after her birth in 1963. Oprah and Patricia, 47, met on
Thanksgiving Day.

"It was a beloved moment," the presenter said. Winfrey had a late sister, also
called Patricia, who struggled with drug addiction and died in 2003. "It feels
to me like you are Pat on her very best day," Winfrey told her half-sister. "You
are what she wanted to be without the drugs."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gay murder;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 92 words


Gay murder 5 Uganda David Kato, a leading gay rights activist, was beaten to
death at his home after a newspaper printed his photo and called for him to be
killed.

Last year, under the headline "Hang Them", the Ugandan Rolling Stone newspaper
printed Kato's picture on the front page as part of a piece that published the
names and photos of "Uganda's 100 top homos". The editor of the magazine, Giles
Muhame, said that he did not condone the murder.

"We want the government to hang people who promote homosexuality, not the public
to attack them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Divided they stand;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 106 words


Divided they stand 4 West Bank A cache of 1,600 leaked documents from the Middle
East peace process revealed that the Palestinians offered major concessions to
Israel in a vain effort to forge a peace settlement.

According to the documents, released by the Arab television station Al Jazeera,
the Palestinians offered a deal on East Jerusalem that would have allowed Jewish
settlements to remain on their land. They were also willing to accept that only
10,000 refugees would return to their homes, a fraction of the 5m displaced
Palestinians.

The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, dismissed the papers as "lies and
half truths".

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mandela 'stable';
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 103 words


Mandela 'stable' 3 South Africa Nelson Mandela, the former president, was
released from hospital on Friday after being rushed there on Wednesday with an
acute respiratory infection.

Initial reports about the former president's condition were vague, which led to
panic that he was close to death. However, the country's surgeon-general, VJ
Ramlakan, sought to calm fears on Friday. He said Mandela had "received
treatment and has responded very well. He is stable but will be monitored
closely".

He added: "Medically there is no need to panic. For a 92-year-old he surprises
us on a daily basis with his powers of recovery."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Running battles;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 125 words


Running battles 2 Egypt At least 35 people died last week in widespread
demonstrations. Tens of thousands took to the streets in defiance of an official
ban on public gatherings, and riot police fought running battles with
demonstrators who were demanding an end to the 30-year rule of the president,
Hosni Mubarak. Just after midnight on Friday night, the president dismissed the
government and said a new cabinet would be formed the following day.

Among the protesters was Mohamed ElBaradei - the Nobel peace prize-winning
former head of the UN's nuclear watchdog - who returned to Egypt on Thursday to
take part in the protests. "I am going back to Cairo and back onto the streets,
because, really, there is no choice," he said.

For latest, see News

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Running battles;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport
attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 125 words


2 Egypt Scores of people died last week in widespread demonstrations. Tens of
thousands took to the streets in defiance of an official ban on public
gatherings, and riot police fought running battles with demonstrators who were
demanding an end to the 30-year rule of the president, Hosni Mubarak. Just after
midnight on Friday night, the president dismissed the government and said a new
cabinet would be formed the following day.

Among the protesters was Mohamed ElBaradei - the Nobel peace prize-winning
former head of the UN's nuclear watchdog - who returned to Egypt on Thursday to
take part in the protests. "I am going back to Cairo and back onto the streets,
because, really, there is no choice," he said.

For latest, see News

3 2 6 5 8 4 1 10 7 9

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Subordinate claws;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 113 words


Paleontology British scientists have discovered a parrot-sized dinosaur, a
distant cousin of TyrannS osaurus rex, it was revealed on Tuesday. The
fossilised remains of Linhenykus monodactylus, pictured above, uncovered near
the Chinese city of Linhe, suggest that the dinosaur stood 2ft tall on a
bird-like frame. One stunted claw on each forelimb may have been used to scoop
up insects, "rather like an armadillo", said Michael Pittman, part of the
British team that found the skeleton.

Pittman, of University College London, added that the dinosaur would not have
appeared very scary: "You'd see a very small animal, probably below your hip
height, with a very small gracile skull."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Sheridan jailed;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills 35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 188 words


Courts Tommy Sheridan, former leader of the Scottish Socialist party (SSP), was
jailed for three years on Wednesday after being convicted of perjury. In order
to win a £200,000 defamation suit against the News of the World, Sheridan lied
on oath, a jury decided at Glasgow High Court.

The 46-year-old sued the Sunday tabloid in 2006 after it ran a number of exposés
claiming he had enjoyed extramarital affairs and had visited a swingers' club.
He won his claim but had to return to court last year to face charges that he
had lied in the original case by denying both an affair with a SSP member,
Katrine Trolle, and a trip with her to a Manchester sex club.

Despite hearing lurid details of her husband's activities in court, Sheridan's
wife, Gail, pictured above with him, defended him throughout. The former air
hostess told jurors in the original libel trial that if she believed her husband
had cheated on her he would be "in the Clyde with a piece of concrete" tied to
him and she would be "in court for his murder".

As Sheridan was led away to the cells last week, he turned to his wife and said,
"Take care; all the best."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

One lord a-lying;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 134 words


One lord a-lying Parliament The former Tory peer Lord Taylor of Warwick was
facing a two-year jail sentence last week after being found guilty of expenses
fraud. The 58-year-old barrister argued that the six claims he had submitted to
the House of Lords, totalling £11,277.80, were made in good faith because it was
a common practice among peers to claim expenses "in lieu of a salary".

Taylor had listed a home in Oxford, which was owned by his half-nephew, as his
main residence, enabling him to claim for travel between Oxford and London and
for overnight stays in the capital. In fact he lived in Ealing, west London.
"The impression I got was that expenses weren't things that you were repaid for,
but that they were actually allowance," he told the court. He was released on
bail pending sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Proper Charlie;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 117 words


Proper Charlie Protests Charlie Gilmour, the adopted son of the Pink Floyd
guitarist David Gilmour, has been charged with violent disorder and theft of a
mannequin leg. The 21-year-old was among thousands of students who gathered in
Trafalgar Square and Parliament Square ahead of the Commons vote last month to
treble the maximum level of university tuition fees to £9,000.

The Cambridge University undergraduate was photographed hanging from a Union
flag on the Cenotaph. In his apology the following day the student described his
actions as a "moment of idiocy" and admitted he did not realise the monument
commemorated Britain's war dead. He will appear at Westminster magistrates'
court on February 10.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Blaze tragedy;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 102 words


Blaze tragedy Deaths A mother tried in vain to rescue her four children from a
fire that engulfed a house in Ashbourne, Derbyshire on Tuesday. Rachel Henson,
44, managed to escape from the blaze and woke neighbours but they were unable to
open the front door to save Tommy, 9, Alisha, 6, Rocco, 4, and Appolonia, 2, who
were sleeping upstairs. Firefighters rescued two of the children, but they died
later in hospital.

Carol Bowler, 50, a neighbour, said: "I went outside and saw people putting
ladders up to a bedroom window. Rachel managed to get out. She was sobbing and
screaming, 'Are any of my children alive?' "

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Two legs good;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 114 words


Two legs good Nature Footage, pictured below, of a gorilla walking upright at a
Kent animal park has become a YouTube sensation, racking up more than 250,000
views in the past few days. The clip shows Ambam, a 21-year-old silverback,
standing 6ft tall and then walking like a human on his hind legs at Port Lympne
wild animal park, near Hythe, Kent. Gorillas usually get around by "knuckle
walking" - using the padded backs of their front hands to support themselves as
they move around the floors of forests or zoos.

Ingrid Naisby, a keeper at the park, said, "He's always liked to stand up. It's
about getting his balance right and he's well practised. He has perfected it."

My week, News

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Excess luggage;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 171 words


Excess luggage Crime An American weapons dealer allegedly smuggled more than 80
handguns into Britain, where they were offered to criminal gangs in the north of
England at up to £5,000 apiece, it was reported on Tuesday. The guns, which
include 20 Glock 9mm semi-automatic pistols, were bought for about $500 (£325)
each in a North Carolina gunshop.

Authorities in London and Washington held crisis talks after Steven Greenoe, 37,
a private security consultant, was accused of trafficking the dismantled weapons
in his hold luggage. He was stopped at least once when airport screening
detected "multiple firearms" in his bags, but managed to talk his way onto the
flight from Atlanta to Manchester.

Five guns have been recovered in Britain and tests show that one was used in a
drive-by shooting in Manchester last October. The former Scotland Yard
counter-terrorism chief Andy Hayman said: "This makes a mockery of the stringent
checks we all endure at US airports ... Steven Greenoe's guns could have just as
easily been bombs."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

A selfless act;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 123 words


A selfless act Armed forces Private Martin Bell was named as Britain's 350th
military fatality in Afghanistan since operations began in 2001. The soldier,
24, from 2nd Battalion the Parachute Regiment was killed in a blast from an
improvised explosive device to the south of Nahr-e-Saraj in Helmand province on
Wednesday. He had disobeyed a direct order and gone to the aid of a colleague
who had been injured by another device. Superiors said he was a hero whose
selfless act cost him his life.

Lieutenant-Colonel Andrew Harrison, commanding officer, 2 Para, said, "Private
Martin Bell died going to the assistance of a critically injured friend in the
most dangerous combat circumstances imaginable; 'greater love has no man than
this'."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Sheridan jailed;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; 'Swinger' jailed and a terrorist airport attack kills
35

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 190 words


Sheridan jailed Courts Tommy Sheridan, former leader of the Scottish Socialist
party (SSP), was jailed for three years on Wednesday after being convicted of
perjury. In order to win a £200,000 defamation suit against the News of the
World, Sheridan lied on oath, a jury decided at Glasgow High Court.

The 46-year-old sued the Sunday tabloid in 2006 after it ran a number of exposés
claiming he had enjoyed extramarital affairs and had visited a swingers' club.
He won his claim but had to return to court last year to face charges that he
had lied in the original case by denying both an affair with a SSP member,
Katrine Trolle, and a trip with her to a Manchester sex club.

Despite hearing lurid details of her husband's activities in court, Sheridan's
wife, Gail, pictured above with him, defended him throughout. The former air
hostess told jurors in the original libel trial that if she believed her husband
had cheated on her he would be "in the Clyde with a piece of concrete" tied to
him and she would be "in court for his murder".

As Sheridan was led away to the cells last week, he turned to his wife and said,
"Take care; all the best."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Daily says "Indian mind" behind Russia accusing Pakistan for terror attack

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of daily headlined "Russia's suicide attack allegation against Pakistan"
published by Pakistani newspaper Ausaf on 28 January

Russia has accused Pakistan of Moscow suicide attack, without offering proof in
support of its allegation. It shows that Indian lobby against Pakistan has
become highly active on global levels. It is very much probable that India would
have asked Russia to directly hurl the allegation for this accident on Pakistan.

Chechen warriors might have carried out the Moscow suicide attack, since they
have direct enmity with Russia. Moreover, it is very likely that it could be a
joint action of Al-Qa'idah and Chechen warriors. Al-Qa'idah possesses enough
capability to conduct this type of attacks with the local support.

However, all this is realistic review. Russia did not opt for realism in this
regard and, as a result of the alleged Indian incitation, hurled the allegations
against Pakistan. It is exactly the same case as whenever some incident takes
place in India, it hurls the allegation against Pakistan within hours, without
any kind of proof.

In the wake of the India-Russia close relations, it is very much possible that
Indian mind could be working behind this allegation, which is very expert at
such deeds.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad, in Urdu 28 Jan 11, p 10

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Chechen leader blames terrorist attacks on nationalists, opposition, West

LENGTH: 709 words


No security system will be able to avert future terrorist attacks, President of
Russia's Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov has said. Extremism has to be tackled
at the spiritual level, he added. He was speaking in an interview with popular
Russian TV host Tina Kandelaki and prominent journalist Andrey Kolesnikov as
part of their programme "Unreal Politics", broadcast on Russian Gazprom-owned
channel NTV on 30 January.

Kadyrov described the terrorist attack at Moscow's Domodedovo airport on 24
January as "a common distress, common grief".

Asked whether he knew of effective mechanisms to prevent such attacks, Kadyrov
said: "Indeed, the real fight against terrorism and extremism is spirituality.
Today we can stop one terrorist, another one, a third one, but it cannot go on
like this. We should bring up the younger generation in such a way that they
know what religion is, what Islam is, what Christianity is, so that we do not
have any differences between each other. We should conduct a policy of
explanation and propaganda in relation to this younger generation."

Asked whether he knew anything about the Nogayskiy Dzhamaat terrorist group
which, according to the investigation, is allegedly responsible for the
Domodedovo attack, Kadyrov said: "There is a group of shaytans [devils], and
they need to be destroyed." He went on to say that "very strong states and
special agencies were behind them. It is not like a simple man decided to go to
Domodedovo and stage a terrorist attack," he said. Asked whom exactly he
suspected to be behind "the simple man", Kadyrov answered briefly: "The West".

Speaking about measures he had taken to curb terrorism in Chechnya, Kadyrov said
he had employed all the available means. "Today, I, too, plan operations, take
measures, and I like this job because I protect people's lives," he said. "What
we also did was, we gathered all our spiritual leaders together and developed a
spiritual programme."

He also described measures against Wahhabi propaganda on the Internet: "I
specially bought computers and put 15 people at them. They answered their
[Wahhabis'] questions day and night, they tried to convince them that they were
wrong, that the prophet did not say this at that time. And we proved that the
Koran does not say that. And today 98 per cent are on our side, and two per cent
on theirs. And two per cent is also a lot. And one should find such a common
language with young people so that they do not go to Manezhka [Square in Moscow,
where race rally took place in December 2010], do not kill, do not blow up."

Kadyrov also advocated jailing opposition leaders to resolve the problem,
saying: "What is [leader of the Russian People's Democratic Union Mikhail]
Kasyanov displeased with? He is the former chairman of the government, in his
time he [changes tack] What is [opposition politician Boris] Nemtsov not happy
about? They also served in the same state. They claimed we conducted the right
policy. What are they looking for today? One should jail them all, first of all,
and all their supervisors. After that nobody will be interested in coming out to
Manezhka."

"One should not play around with them, then there will be order and no
inter-ethnic conflicts. [Leader of Russian Liberal-Democratic Party Vladimir]
Zhirinovskiy should be expelled from the State Duma, he who allegedly defends
Russian politics and insults Caucasians. We Caucasians are Russians, too. And
Russia is our Fatherland. We used to die in the name of Russia. And he freely
insults us, humiliates us. If we get rid of such people, if we put nationalists
in prison and expel them from [government] structures, then there will be
order."

Speaking about his career plans, Kadyrov, who is only 34 now, said he did not
intend to move further up the career ladder. "I am a warrior. I can be a good
warrior, I know how to lead a squadron after me and perform tasks," he said.

He went on to reiterate his admiration for Russian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin. "I am trying to be like Vladimir Putin. We do not need to look for
others, invent something new. There is a man who serves his state, his people,
day and night. And I try to conduct the policy which he conducts," he concluded.

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 2050 gmt 30 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman tells of her hammer attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 226 words


A woman has described how she was attacked in broad daylight by a man wielding a
hammer.

Michelle Jenkins said she was shopping in Cornwall Street, near Plymouth City
Market, on Saturday when the man ran up to her and brandished a hammer in her
face. Mrs Jenkins, 40, instinctively pushed him away and was not hit.

The man, whom she believes may have been homeless and suffering mental health
problems, was later arrested. Businesswoman Michelle, from Plymouth, said: "I
had just dropped off my husband and parked the car behind the former Woolworth
store. We were about to buy some Euros.

I was walking between the car park and Cornwall Street, just putting my keys in
my pocket, when the man ran up and brandished the hammer right in my face. He
didn't say anything.

"I took him off guard, shoved him back and got out of the way.

"I was just in the wrong place at the wrong time."

Mrs Jenkins said the man was about 5ft 3in, scruffy and in ragged clothes, and
appeared to have possessions in bags and a trolley.

She said: "He looked like he was sleeping rough."

Mrs Jenkins' husband, Robert, 34, found her being comforted by another woman,
and phoned the police to report the attack.

His wife then witnessed the man being arrested.

¦ An unemployed 45-year-old man was arrested at 10.20am on Saturday on suspicion
of possessing an offensive weapon in a public place.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

Airport vulnerability to terror attacks probed by Russian TV show

LENGTH: 684 words


The 30 January edition of "Reporters' Stories" programme on privately-owned Ren
TV, titled "Effect of the exploded bomb" and presented by Leonid Kanfer, was
prompted by the 24 January bombing attack on Moscow's Domodedovo airport.
Presenter noted that this was the first time that terrorists blew up a facility
as closely guarded as an international airport. Some of the questions the
programme sought to answer included why the special services were again not held
responsible for the death of people and whether Russians are prepared to live
under conditions of total control.

Survivors' views

An eyewitness to the attack, Artem Zhilinkov, said that the main entrance to the
terminal in Domodedovo was not guarded and there was another side entrance
through which "anything could be smuggled in". Another survivor, Yuriy Vartanov,
was interviewed in his hospital bed, saying that he expected a second explosion
to occur. Vartanov said that two people who he thinks were suicide bombers as
they looked tense and determined, could be told apart from the rest of the crowd
but there were no trained spotters in the arrivals hall. Vartanov said that no
searches or examinations were conducted, most likely because there was no
funding for checks.

A survivor of the March 2010 suicide bombing on Moscow metro, Vladislav
Martiyanov, said that it was wrong that Domodedovo continued to work as normal
after the bombing, and that everyone had to be evacuated to prevent a second
bombing. Alina Golubeva, who travelled on the Nevskiy Ekspress train which was
blown up in November 2008, said that she did not notice any increase in the
security measures since the bombing despite the government's pledges.

Security issues at the airport

Domodedovo is thought to be Russia's best-equipped airport, with cutting-edge
security equipment. Natsionalnaya Oborona (Russ: national defence) magazine
editor in chief Igor Korotchenko was interviewed, saying that while the
equipment may have been in place, the personnel were not present and thus
examination was not conducted, due to slackness. Former head of the explosions
department of the USSR state security committee (KGB), Vladimir Mikhaylov, said
that the explosives used in the attack on Domodedovo could not be detected by a
metal detector. He added that checks on security operations are ineffective as
they are conducted by the security services themselves and not controlled by any
outside bodies. A security officer at Moscow's Vnukovo airport was interviewed,
saying that she thinks increased security regime should be maintained but they
will need more personnel.

Domodedovo's six-level security system was profiled, but the presenter says that
crowds forming in front of the airport after metal detectors are enacted may be
as attractive to terrorists as those inside the terminal building. Domodedovo's
system is contrasted with the Israeli approach whereby security personnel rather
than equipment is crucial to ensuring airport security.

Influence of corruption

State Duma deputy Gennadiy Gudkov told the programme that any terrorist can
smuggle anything anywhere, safe in the knowledge that he would be freed from
control by bribes, and can get any papers for money. Gudkov said that "the whole
country are terrorists' accomplices". Corruption has to be tackled in order to
get rid of terrorism, Gudkov said, adding that people who made their fortunes on
corrupt deals and now prevent the fight against corruption are terrorists' main
accomplices.

Irina Krutova, a relative of victims of a 2004 aircraft suicide bombing which
was made possible by a R1,000 (about 33.5 dollars) bribe to a duty policeman at
Domodedovo and to the fact that the pre-flight examination group was
undermanned, was interviewed, saying that an investigator advised them to
withdraw a lawsuit against Domodedovo. Krutova says that "such untouchable
people own shares in Domodedovo that it's scary to even think about them". There
were no apologies from the authorities or from Domodedovo apart from monetary
compensation, she alleged.

Source: REN TV, Moscow, in Russian 1105 gmt 30 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

Kyrgyz leader warns of possible terror attacks in country

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Osh, 1 February: Kyrgyz President Roza Otunbayeva has said that according to
information of special services, there is a possibility of new terrorist attacks
in the country in near future.

"There is information from the special services that terrorist groups still have
a large amount of weapons and are planning to carry out five terrorist attacks,"
Otunbayeva said today at a meeting with activists from the country's southern
regions.

"We should teach Kyrgyz citizens how to behave during terrorist attacks: what to
do, where to turn to and to provide first aid," the head of state said.

She said that above all "it is necessary to teach pupils and students [how to
behave during terrorist attacks]".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0923 gmt 1 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

An attack by cyber terrorists is likely warns security minister;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 197 words


Britain is likely to come under cyber attack from terrorists, the security
minister, Baroness Neville-Jones, warned yesterday.

The potential for Islamic radicals to launch computer assaults on critical
infrastructure, such as power stations and communications networks, was being
taken into account as new security defences were built, she said.

"There is also a risk, likely to grow over time, that terrorists will develop
the ability to hack into critical infrastructures and online systems," she told
an internet conference yesterday.

"A cyber attack attempted by terrorists, if not inevitable, is of so great a
likelihood that we bear it in mind in developing operational capabilities."

In October, the Strategic Defence and Security Review allocated £650million to
improving cyber security.

Details of how the new budget will be carved up across Whitehall are still being
finalised, but Baroness Neville-Jones, who has responsibility for
counter-terrorism, said it was a priority to ensure that "terrorists find it
hard to conduct cyber-attacks".

Fears over cyber attacks by terrorists have grown since last year, when the
Stuxnet virus disrupted the Iranian nuclear enrichment programme.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Blame game fears raised after bomb blast at Russian airport;
Russia specialist Dr Gregory Schwartz calls for tougher questioning to prevent
terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 772 words


As the dust of last week's explosion at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport settles, the
initial tragic drama of bodies, ambulances, hospitals and officials appearing on
television screens and in print turns to questions, finger-pointing and
blamelaying.

Almost immediately President Dmitry Medvedev stated that the airport authorities
are responsible for the negligence that allowed two men to come in unobstructed
to the arrivals hall. He has subsequently blamed the airport's poor security
policies and practices for the deadly blast that killed 35 people and injured
more than 100 others.

In the meantime, airport officials have tried to shield their reputation (and
careers) by blaming the police, an act which has brought the wrath of the
president, who has lashed out at the managers and called such actions "immoral."
Further up the line, Medvedev had already dismissed several top transport
officials, demanding that the transport ministry be "brought to their senses."

Privately, many former lukewarm supporters of changes to the anti-terrorism laws
in the UK have been voicing concerns about Theresa May's announced changes, and
what they might imply in light of the ostensible persisting dangers of
international terrorism.

Indeed, labelling the February and August 2004 and the March 2010 Moscow Metro
suicide bombings, the 2002 Nord-Ost Theatre hostage taking, and the September
1999 Moscow apartment bombings as aspects of international Islamic terrorism is
a preferred rhetorical device often used by the Russian government. As in the
earlier incidents, the early pronouncements from officials and media in the
Domodedovo case have followed a similar pattern, insisting the attacks must have
come from radical Islamists in Chechnya, Ingushetia or Dagestan.

Recently there have been calls to restrain such emphatic pronouncements, if not
an explicit criticism of official policies or military doctrine.

Now Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has said that investigations have shown there
was no Chechen trace in the recent bombing.

The slight change of rhetoric may be an attempt to deflect a growing scepticism
from the Russian public, who feel (mostly privately, but increasingly in public)
that the last decade of military campaigns and micromanagement of local politics
in the North Caucasus has brought them no closer to security.

Originally, the Russian authorities have been happy to paint their prolonged
fight against armed militants in the North Caucasus as part of a global War on
Terror. Western governments, in turn, have been happy to keep quiet about
Russia's affairs in the region to carry on their own wars. But the parallels
between terrorist threats East and West, aside from being politically
convenient, are hardly plausible.

The Russian government of the early 2000s waged a bloody war in North Caucasus
which killed thousands of civilians, destroyed towns, villages, roads,
infrastructure, and with them any hope of a quick return to normality. It
celebrated its eventual 'victory' by giving the Chechen people a present in the
form of a puppet regime headed by a former separatist militant turned loyalist,
Ramzan Kadyrov. It has been claimed by many, most famously by Anna Politkovskaya
in her posthumously published diaries, that this defector to the Kremlin has
been running Chechnya like a private fiefdom, with an iron fist and with
complete impunity.

Money poured to the region by the Kremlin has ended up in the pockets of a
narrow clique of people loyal to Kadyrov, rather than the schools, hospitals and
infrastructure of the republic.

In the midst of the all this, many young people, whose futures have been
blighted by the poverty and the lawlessness of the last decade, have been
leaving towns and villages to join more hardened, radicalised militants in the
surrounding mountains. For these youth, radicalisation is a political choice,
representing an attempt to break a cycle of violence and hopelessness.

Understandably, flitting from pillar to post about which agency or person to
blame for the security breach allows the people in power to deflect attention
from the real problems that underlie the resentment and political hopes of the
people of North Caucasus. It forces the media to focus on the detail while
ignoring the larger picture. Perhaps, therefore, more probing questions should
be asked by those in the media and in the governments about the conditions of
those blamed for the attacks, if there is a serious desire to forego terrorist
attacks in both Russia and more widely.

'It forces the media to focus on the detail while ignoring the larger picture'
Bath University's Dr Gregory Schwartz

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A man lights a candle to commemorate the victims of a suicide bombing
at Moscow''s Domodedovo airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday

SCIENTIST'S TERROR ATTACK FEARS OVER VIRUS 'SUPERLAB'

LENGTH: 270 words


MARK BLUNDEN

ONE of Britain's leading bio-scientists today voiced fears over the safety of a
£600 million virus "superlab" planned for St Pancras.

Professor Guy Dodson, who has worked at Oxford University, warned that the
14-storey, maximum security site containing viruses including malaria,
tuberculosis, bird and swine flu, cancer cells and HIV would need to be
"bulletproof".

He told the Standard: "The issues are if you have an earthquake, some idiot lets
a bomb off or there's a fire at St Pancras International.

"These are extreme examples but you don't want that building to suffer a serious
knockabout when you've got this material in there.

"The unspoken concern is terrorism because it's a natural target. We need to
know the capacity they have for dealing with the unexpected." The biochemist's
fears echo those of some of the thousands living nearby.

The UK Centre for Medical Research and Innovation will have several underground
laboratories.

Professor Dodson is also concerned that vibrations from Tube trains running
through King's Cross and Euston could ruin delicate and expensive laboratory
equipment.

In written evidence to a Commons Science and Technology select committee
inquiry, he wrote: "I fear that the £600 million funding will not be sufficient
to meet the uncertainties in building and equipping the laboratories."

The consortium behind the project includes the Medical Research Council, Cancer
Research UK and the Wellcome Trust. The centre, which has won planning
permission from Camden council and been approved by London Mayor Boris Johnson,
said biosecurity will be among the tightest in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Financial terrorists' pose grave risk to US;
Attacks may have caused 2008 crisis, report says

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 882 words


The US financial system remains vulnerable to a co-ordinated act of "financial
terrorism" that risks taking down the US economy and collapsing the dollar,
according to a confidential report commissioned by the Department of Defence in
Washington.

The document warns that forces hostile to the US could mount a "focused effort
to collapse the dollar by dumping Treasury bonds" and urges the security
services to conduct a further risk assessment "outside of traditional Washington
and Wall Street circles".

It also suggests that the financial meltdown of 2008, which wiped out an
estimated $50 trillion of global wealth, may not have been the spontaneous
result of poor regulation and bad risk assessment among financial institutions,
but a co-ordinated series of attacks by "financial terrorists intent on
destroying the American financial system". The disclosure of the report's
contents to The Times came as the FBI confirmed that it had warned major Wall
Street institutions of a potential threat to their businesses and executives
after an al Qaeda-linked magazine, Inspire, suggested that financial markets
could be a target of attack.

A spokesman for the FBI in New York confirmed yesterday that security briefings
for Wall Street firms took place last month, but said that the information that
was discussed was "not imminent, not specific". The briefings reflect concerns
in some quarters of the Pentagon about the vulnerability of America's financial
and economic system to terrorist attack.

The FBI move follows revelations in The Times this week that stock exchanges in
Britain and the United States have turned to the security services for help
after discovering that they were the victims of terrorist plots and attempted
cyber attacks that aimed to spread panic in leading global financial markets
last year.

The 110-page document commissioned by the Irregular Warfare Support Program
(IWSP) of the US Department of Defence is entitled Economic Warfare: Risks and
Responses. It has been circulated among defence chiefs in Washington but has
never been made public. It was delivered to the IWSP in June, 2009, eight months
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered the financial crisis, but has
remained under wraps since then as the attention in Washington focused instead
on introducing financial reforms. It resurfaced two months ago when it was
submitted by the Department of Defence to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission (FCIC), the official US Government-appointed body investigating the
causes of the 2008 crisis. The report examines the possibility that gaps in the
US financial regulatory system "were subject to exploitation not only by greedy
capitalists seeking profit, but also by financial terrorists intent on
destroying the American financial system". It adds that high levels of debt,
especially housing debt, taken on by American households added to the country's
vulnerability.

Drawing heavily on academic and other texts, the report outlines a scenario in
which US economic security could be undermined in a three-phase attack. The
first could have been the surge in oil prices fuelled by speculators in 2007.
The second phase would have begun in 2008 with a series of bear raids targeting
US financial services firms, most particularly Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers,
in which investors bet that the stock of those companies would fall in value.

The third phase could take the form of a direct economic attack on the US
Treasury and US dollar, the report says.

"A focused effort to collapse the dollar by dumping Treasury bonds has grave
implications including the possibility of a downgrading of US debt and...
removing [the dollar] from reserve currency status," it says.

"Such an event has already been discussed by finance ministers in major emerging
market nations, such as China and Russia, as well as Iran and the Arab states,"
it adds.

The report suggests that any number of foreign-based individuals or
organisations, ranging from sovereign wealth funds to Russian mobsters and
al-Qaeda and even one or more of Brazil, Russia, India and China could have the
means and motive to perpetrate or commission acts of financial and economic
terror on the US. While it does not accuse any of these parties of wrongdoing,
it outlines the potential threat they pose and concludes that the fact that
there is reasonable credibility to this threat "justifies very serious
consideration".

"Ignoring the likelihood of this very real threat ensures a catastrophic event,"
it warns. The report recommends the creation of a special unit to "implement
appropriate counter-measures to emerging threats in co-ordination with key
defence, intelligence, and financial agencies".

The document's author, Kevin D Freeman, is the founder and chief executive of
Freeman Global Investment Counsel, a boutique investment advisory firm. He was
commissioned by the Department of Defence in 2009.

Although the views contained in the report represent Mr Freeman's views and not
those of the Department, e-mails seen by The Times confirm that the department
commissioned the report, circulated it among defence chiefs and passed it to the
FCIC in November or December last year.

The US Department of Defence declined to comment on the report.

How The Times revealed the plots on Monday

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The FBI has warned Wall Street institutions of a potential threat
following an article in a magazine linked to al-Qaeda

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday

Most Russians fear terrorist attacks - poll

LENGTH: 299 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 3 February: The majority of Russians (68 per cent) fear to fall victim
to a terrorist attack, the results of a survey carried out by the Public Opinion
foundation in 43 constituent parts of the Russian Federation on 29-30 January
suggest.

The quarter of Russians show fearlessness in this issue. Similar figures, 70 and
23 per cent respectively, were observed by sociologists in April 2010 just after
the terrorist attacks in Moscow metro stations Lubyanka and Park Kultury.

According to sociologists, out of 98 per cent of those surveyed, who are aware
of the terrorist attack in [Moscow airport] Domodedovo, 65 per cent believe that
the terrorist attack could have been prevented, 14 per cent think it would be
impossible and 19 per cent could not answer.

Fifty-one per cent believe that the terrorist attack will be uncovered, 31 per
cent doubt this, and 19 per cent could not answer.

One in five (26 per cent) think that terrorists' aim was to terrorize and
frighten people, 10 per cent believe that criminals wanted to destabilize the
situation in the country, to incite ethnic hatred and war, and seven per cent
think terrorists wanted to demonstrate their power and to remind of themselves.

First feelings the respondents had about news on the terrorist attack in
Domodedovo were compassion for victims, pity, grief (51 per cent), helplessness,
feeling of insecurity, fear for themselves and loved ones (21 per cent),
vexation, grievance, thoughts about the guilt of special services and
politicians (16 per cent), shock, distress, horror (11 per cent), indignation,
anger, abhorrence of terrorists and desire to revenge (10 per cent). [Passage
omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0753 gmt 3 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday

Several people arrested in Tajik north on suspicion of plotting terror attacks

LENGTH: 141 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

Khujand, 3 February: Tajik law-enforcement bodies of Sughd Region have detained
several people on suspicion of plotting a number of terrorist attacks in the
country's north. The names of the detainees have not been disclosed in the
interests of investigation, says a special report circulated by the directorate
of the Tajik State National Security Committee in Sughd Region.

[Passage omitted: cars stuffed with explosives were found in the Tajik north on
21 and 22 January]

The directorate of the Tajik State National Security Committee in Sughd Region
instituted a criminal case in this regard. An operational-investigative group of
the region's prosecution office is conducting a preliminary investigation.

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 3 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

BA SLEEPER 'PLOTTED 7/7 TYPE ATTACK';
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 119 words


AN alleged terrorist sleeper at British Airways accused of plotting to blow up a
plane had hoped to take part in "another July 7", a court heard yesterday.

Islamic extremist Rajib Karim planned to train as cabin crew and form a terror
cell to get a bomb on a flight to the US, the jury was told.

Woolwich crown court in South London heard a coded message found on his computer
read: "A small team can be the beginning of another July 7". And emails from his
brother Tehzeeb in Pakistan said British citizens were "legitimate targets".

IT worker Karim, 31, of Newcastle, admits terrorist activity, producing a video
and fundraising for a terrorist group, but denies preparing to commit terrorist
acts.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

HE DROVE THE CHIP VAN OVER ME, I THOUGHT I WAS BEING MURDERED;
ATTACK VICTIM'S TERROR

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 353 words


A CHIP van owner who was beaten in a brutal robbery yesterday revealed how she
thought she was going to die during the ordeal.

Wendy Taaffe, 34, from Louth, yesterday described how a masked attacker threw
her to the floor and drove over her with her own van.

He She is still recovering from the vicious beating doled out as she set up
Wendy's Whistle Stop Chippy outside Ardee at around 6.45am on January 22.

The assault left her bruised and battered, with a fractured leg, spine and
broken ankle.

She yesterday told how the cowardly thugs showed her no mercy as she lay injured
on the ground.

Wendy said: "From my house to where I travel to is about 12 miles.

"When I pulled up I got out of the jeep and I only put my hand on the gate and I
could hear a car running and I got back in.

"The next thing I know I got pulled out of it. I got the biggest shock of my
life.

"He threw me on the road as if I was a bit of dirt and I got an unmerciful blow
to the back of the head. He got into the jeep and out of sheer temper I got up
because all that was going through my head was, 'You are not taking my jeep and
my van, no way'.

"That is my life. I got up and he hit me on the side of the face. As he was
taking off I stumbled and fell and he drove the chip van over me.

"I thought I was being murdered and said, 'Please God don't let them kill me'.

"The guy that attacked me was wearing a black balaclava, black gloves and never
spoke one single word.

of "I tried to punch him but I have never got a beating like it. They showed no
mercy."

Wendy was forced to crawl to a nearby house to get help for her horrific
injuries.

She was released from hospital on Monday and will be forced to wear a back brace
for the next six weeks.

But the defiant businesswoman yesterday vowed the thugs would not frighten her
from the spot she has been serving food from for 14 years.

She said: "I have been through hell. I would not wish it on my worst enemy. I
love my work and I said to my sister, 'I am going back, I will not be bullied'."

Her chip van was recovered by the gardai 500 metres from the attack but
detectives are still searching for the jeep.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIVELIHOOD Wendy's van INJURY Her fractured leg RECOVERING Wendy is out
of hospital but has to wear a back brace

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

AU chief condemns terrorist attacks in Mauritania

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 4 February: The chairperson of the African Union Commission (AUC),
Jean Ping, strongly condemned the recently attempted terrorist attack in
Nouakchott, which was successfully foiled and could have caused carnage.

According to a statement AU sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Thursday [3
February], the chairperson congratulated the Mauritanian authorities for their
vigilance and action that have made it possible to prevent a catastrophe, and
reiterated AU's support to Mauritania and other member states in their efforts
to deal effectively with terrorism.

The statement said the attempt demonstrates, once again the need for sustained
and coordinated efforts among African states, within the framework of relevant
AU instruments, to prevent and combat the scourge of terrorism.

The AU commission reiterated its determination to spare no effort in enhancing
the effectiveness of counter-terrorism cooperation across the continent,
according to the statement.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 4 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

Ethiopia foils Eritrea "mastermined" terrorist attack

LENGTH: 140 words


Text of report by state-owned Ethiopian TV on 4 February

The terrorist attack, which masterminded by the Eritrean government, planned to
hinder the recently held AU summit has been foiled.

The National Intelligence and Security Authority and Federal Police Joint
Anti-Terrorist Task Force in a statement it issued said that explosives of C-4
type with their detonators were seized.

The task force said some OLF [Oromo Liberation Front] suspects, who plotted the
plan with the Eritrean government's directives, have been arrested in Semen
Mazagaja Bet, in Addis Ababa, after securing an arrest warrant from a court.

The Eritrean government in the past had made similar effort to hinder AU summit
through its mercenaries. However, its destructive plans were foiled, the
statement noted.

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 1700 gmt 4 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            February 4, 2011 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Cartoonist attacker is convicted of terrorism

BYLINE: Mette Fraende copenhagen

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 516 words


A Danish court has found a Somali man guilty of terrorism and attempted murder
for trying to kill a cartoonist whose 2005 drawing of the Prophet Mohammad
stirred up Muslim outrage around the globe.

Mohamed Geele, 29, broke into the home of cartoonist Kurt Westergaard armed with
an axe and a knife on New Year s Day last year. Mr Westergaard was at home with
his five-year-old grand-daughter Stephanie at the time.

Geele screamed  You must die!  and  You are going to Hell! , the cartoonist told
the court during the trial.

He locked himself in his panic room   a reinforced bathroom   leaving Stephanie
alone in the living room because his attacker was  after me, not the people
around me .

The little girl was unhurt in the attack.

Geele tried to get into the bathroom, hacking at the door with his axe, but fled
when he heard police sirens.

Still armed, he was shot and wounded by police arriving at the scene, who then
arrested him.

Yesterday, Geele was acquitted on another attempted manslaughter charge, brought
because he threw his axe at a police officer who arrived to arrest him, but was
convicted of assaulting the officer.

During the trial, Geele said he was not planning to kill Mr Westergaard,  just
scare him.

The court in Aarhus was expected to sentence Geele today. He could face life in
prison, although such sentences are generally reduced to 16 years under Danish
law.

Speaking after the verdict, Mr Westergaard said:   I am an old, peaceful man and
I am not vindictive, but I am very satisfied.

I ve never been in doubt that he was a terrorist who wanted to kill me. He was a
holy warrior yelling and shouting as he was hammering the axe on the  bathroom
door.

According to local media, the terror verdict stemmed partly from Mr Westergaard
s status as a symbol of freedom of speech and democracy in Denmark, so the
attempted attack on him was deemed by the court to be an attack on the nation as
a whole.

Mr Westergaard s caricature of the Prophet was one of a dozen cartoons
lampooning Islam published by the Danish daily Jyllands-Posten, which led to
violent protests in 2006 and threats to cartoonists, journalists and the
newspaper.

Most Muslims consider any depiction of the founder of Islam offensive, and
protests resulted in at least 50 deaths.

Mr Westergaard s drawing  of the Prophet with a turban resembling a bomb
attracted most attention. The cartoonist has lived for years under police
protection following numerous threats against him and the newspaper.

On December 29 last year, Danish and Swedish police arrested five men suspected
of plotting a  Mumbai-style  attack to kill as many people as possible at the
Copenhagen building that houses the newspaper.

One of the men was subsequently released. Three others remain in custody in
Denmark and one in Sweden, facing charges of planning an act of terrorism.

Danish security police have said the arrests prevented an imminent attack that
would have been like a 2008 rampage by Pakistani gunmen in the Indian city of
Mumbai.

The men held in Denmark, one Tunisian and two Swedish citizens, will next appear
in court on February 24.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kurt Westergaard: Hid in a panic room in his home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Terror' attack on Danish cartoonist

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 75 words


Berlin A court in Denmark has convicted a Somali man of terrorism after he armed
himself with an axe and a knife and smashed his way into the home of a newspaper
cartoonist who had drawn a caricature of the Prophet Muhammad that caused a
storm of protest around the Muslim world (Allan Hall writes). Mohammed Geele,
29, was shot and wounded by police after the attack last year on Kurt
Westergaard, 75. He could face life in jail when sentenced today.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

Ethiopia foils terrorist attack coordinated by Eritrea

LENGTH: 266 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 5 February: An attempt coordinated by the Eritrean government to
obstruct the recent 16th ordinary session of African heads of state and
government was foiled.

Explosive called C-4 and accessories transported to Addis Ababa via Djibouti
were put under control. Alleged Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) instruments and
their collaborators were also arrested following court orders while undertaking
activities to commit the crime.

The explosive was intended to be used to obstruct the session. However, the
National Intelligence and Security Service managed to foil the attempt as it was
aware of the plot earlier.

The police have been investigating the cause of the alleged criminals put under
control in an area locally called Semien Mazegaja in the capital.

The explosive is similar to the one exploded in Kampala, Uganda.

Recently explosive was put under control in Afar and Amhara States while being
transported to Ethiopia from Eritrea following tips from the public.

The Joint Anti-terror Taskforce of the National Intelligence and Security
Service and the Federal Police lauded cooperation of the public to abort the
destructive acts of the Eritrean government.

The taskforce recalled that similar terrorist acts coordinated by the Eritrean
government were attempted to obstruct AU sessions held earlier in the country.

The taskforce called on the public to continue cooperation and said that
detailed information on the attempt will be made official soon, it said.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 5 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

HAMMER GANG CAGED;
Robbers sentenced to a total of 40 years for terror attacks

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1250 words


THEY smashed their way into houses, balaclavas and masks covering their faces,
screaming demands for car keys or jewellery while threatening their terrified
victims with knives, swords, sledgehammers, machetes, chisels and a shotgun.

Today, the reign of terror for one of Merseyside's most violent and prolific
gang of 'burst in' burglars was over.

The five members of the crew - Craig Murphy, Gary Moffatt, Jason Nee, Anthony
Akins and Jamie Williams - are starting a combined 40 years behind bars after
being sentenced at Liverpool Crown Court.

In just two months they carried out 27 burglaries, going after cars they liked
the look of - stealing a high-powered Vauxhall, a top-of-the range VW Golf, an
exclusive Audi, a couple of 4x4s, a BMW and a pacy Honda - and subjecting the
owners of the cars to terrifying ordeals.

Murphy, 19, originally from Stockbridge Village; Moffatt, 22, of The Spinney,
also Stockbridge Village; Akins, 19, of Aylton Road, Huyton; Nee, 21, of
Lynstead Road, Dovecot; and Williams, 18, of Woodlands Road, Huyton, all pleaded
guilty to conspiring to commit burglary and aggravated burglary.

A sixth defendant, Jason Nee's brother Jamie, 23, also from Dovecot, was jailed
for a year after admitting perverting the course of justice.

ECHO He reported his Mazda 3 stolen when in reality his brother had been using
it to carry out the burglaries. mobile For news/sport/text ECHO to In their
spree, the gang:. Stabbed victims who didn't respond quickly enough to demands
for car keys, jewellery or cash. Threatened to cut the hand off a pensioner if
his wife didn't show them where the safe was. Told the same couple they were
"considerate" burglars because they hadn't broken in the night before, as they
had planned, because the couple had young family round. Threatened a boy
watching TV with a shotgun before firing it into the stairs in the house.
Marched a mum around her home by her hair in front of her distraught children.
Smashed one victim in the face with a clawhammer after he bravely tried to keep
them out of his house and away fromhis wife and four-year-old son. Told a couple
their car was being stolen to order and they would "get it back on the
insurance". Left an eight-month-old baby with cuts to his head after smashing
their way through a patio window, sending glass flying everywhere.

Their victims had no idea of the horror they were about to face.

Most had not been home from work long when they became the next on the gang's
hit-list.

They were relaxing with their families moments before their world was turned
upside down.

Yesterday the court was packed out with victims wanting to see the gang face
justice.

There was no pattern to their spree. They simply drove around and picked their
victims based on the car parked on the drive or the house they lived in.

They struck in West Derby, Woolton, Childwall, Croxteth, Gateacre, Bootle,
Huyton, Prescot, Maghull, St Helens, Whiston, Lancashire and North Wales,
stealing cars from one address and using them in the robbery of the next.

The crimes police can link the gang to began in December 2009. On February 5,
2010, Moffatt, Akins, Williams and Nee were caught and the spate stopped over
night.

They were arrested hiding in a cupboard in the ladies' toilet in the Granada
Bingo Hall, better known as Bugsy's, in Dovecot. On the floor around them was
the 'burglar's uniform' of balaclavas and gloves they had tried to shed.

The chase that led to their arrest began when the police helicopter spotted a
stolen VW Golf R32. What followed was a high-speed pursuit through the city
until the gang made their bid to escape.

In the back of the Golf were sledgehammers and other items the gang used in
their raids.

DCI Allan James headed up the specialist team - codenamed Operation Oxford -
that was tasked with catching the gang when it became clear police were dealing
with one crew.

life 67800 He said: "At first we thought we had a force-wide problem but we soon
realised it was bigger than that and this team were targeting addresses outside
of Merseyside too.

"Oxford was made up of a number of highly experienced detectives, all with their
own specialisms and expertise.

"We were put together on February 1 and following the arrest of Moffatt and
others on February 5, this kind of break-in stopped.

"We were confident we had identified the main players but then we had to set
about proving it.

"It was only after a lot of hard work putting the pieces together that in July
we were confident we had the evidence to prove a conspiracy and we made the
final arrests."

During the early morning strike, Anthony Akins was Tasered in the testicles as
he tried to take on the police storming his home.

DCI James said: "Evidence gathering continued after that date to make the case
as strong as possible and I think that shows in the fact they all pleaded
guilty.

"They've never said anything to us in interview. Not a word. So we've had to
prove it all and we've obviously done that.

"To be confronted and threatened by someone in your own home is an extremely
alarming and distressing experience that the victims will have to live with for
the rest of their lives.

"I hope that these sentences will, in some way, bring closure and some comfort
to the victims and their families whose lives these men have blighted."

By the time the spree was stopped by police, the gang had graduated to raiding
off-licences, stealing the cash machine from one and trying to steal another
from a second on consecutive nights.

Sentencing the gang - most of whom come from decent families, the court heard -
Judge John Roberts said: "This was a wide ranging conspiracy where young men
were out of control, on the rampage and came to terrorise their victims at home.

"It was done in the belief they could do what they want with impunity.

"These burglaries were truly shocking."

. To see footage of the chase from the police helicopter, log on to
www.liverpoolecho.co.uk VICTIMS LEFT WITH NIGHTMARES IN THEIR harrowing victim
impact statements put before Judge John Roberts, those who faced the gang
raiding their homes spelt out the lasting impact of their ordeals.

They all spoke about having their homes "violated" and feelings of anger,
anxiety, sadness and fear.

Many still sleep with the light on at night and of those who haven't sold up
already, many are looking to move to somewhere new.

And some were questioning the point of working hard to live in comfort when
their property can be taken by thugs in an instant.

One family's father said: "At the time, the feelings of anger became overwhelmed
by my feelings of inadequacy that I was unable to protect my family from harm in
their own home.

"I honestly believed that as time passed, the feeling of insecurity in my own
home would also pass but I continue to feel disturbed at the slightest noise
outside the house in the evening and it seems ridiculous that a simple task like
taking rubbish out to the bins brings with it such feelings of apprehension."

One women, confronted in a separate incident, said: "The incident has turned my
whole world upside down and my life will never be the same again. This year has
been a complete blur to me and I have been left in a complete state of shock.

"I do not want to be left alone in my own home.

"There is not a day goes by that I do not think about what has happened to me. I
don't sleep well at night and wake at the smallest noise... and when I do sleep
I have nightmares."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  RECOVERED: Sledgehammers used by the gang of burglars to threaten
victims 12 MONTHS: Jamie Nee, from Dovecot - perverted the course of justice
LOST 10 YEARS: Craig Murphy, of no fixed address - 'burst in'' burglar 8 YEARS:
Gary Moffatt, from Stockbridge Village - 'burst in'' burglar 7 YEARS: Anthony
Akins, from Huyton - 'burst in'' burglar 7 YEARS: Jamie Williams, from Huyton -
'burst in'' burglar 8 YEARS: Jason Nee, from Dovecot - 'burst in'' burglar CCTV:
The gang robbing Simply Drinks at Huyton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cartoonist's attacker jailed for terrorism

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 68 words


A Somali man convicted of terrorism for breaking into the home of a Danish
cartoonist who had caricatured the Prophet Muhammad has been jailed for nine
years.

The Aarhus city court ruled that Muhideen Mohammed Geelle should be deported
after his sentence. The 29-year-old entered Kurt Westergaard's home armed with
an axe on New Year's Day 2010. Westergaard locked himself inside a panic room
and was unharmed.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday

Ugandan police warn of possible terror attacks on Valentine's Day

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of report by Andrew Bagala entitled "Police warn on Valentine Day bomb
threat" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor
website on 6 February; subheadings as published

That romantic gift or bouquet of red flowers that has been delivered to your
home or office on Valentine's Day may not be from a lover but a terrorist who
wants you and your family dead, the Inspector General of Police, Maj-Gen Kale
Kayihura, has cautioned.

The police are taking nothing for granted and are sending out warnings that
terrorists could use Valentine's Day on February 14, just three days to the
presidential elections, to disorganize the country.

While issuing a new terror alert yesterday at the media centre in Kampala,
Maj-Gen Kayihura appealed to the public to exercise popular vigilance and
neighbourhood watch if we are to avert terror attacks. "Look out for suspicious
or abandoned items or packages such as bags, cars, boxes, unexpected gifts,
flowers, flasks mails and parcels," he said.

Al Shabaab suspected

Maj-Gen Kayihura said they suspect al-Shabaab and al-Qa'idah cells in
collaboration with Allied Democratic Forces to be behind planned attacks.

Al-Shabaab terrorists claimed responsibility for the twin bombings in Kampala
which killed at least 76 people and injured dozens of others at Kyadondo Rugby
Club and Ethiopia Village Restaurant on July 11, 2010.

Safety measures

Over 34 bomb suspects, including Ugandans and Kenyans, were arrested and charged
with murder and terrorism.

Security agencies have also been ordered to reinstate safety measures in
congested places like taxi parks, markets, embassies, hotels and other strategic
areas within the city.

The public is urged to reach police on the following numbers:

0414256366, 0414250611, 0414256367, 0414254561, 0414254262 to report suspicious
item or people.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 6 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Moscow 'at risk of more terror attacks';
worlddigest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 56 words


RUSSIA: Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov (pictured) claims to have sent a
disciple on a suicide mission to Moscow and is threatening 'a year of blood and
tears' if Russia does not give up its claim to the region. Speaking in an online
video, the 46-year-old makes no mention of last month's suicide bombing at
Moscow's Domodedovo Airport.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Moscow 'at risk of more terror attacks';
world digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 56 words


RUSSIA: Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov (pictured) claims to have sent a
disciple on a suicide mission to Moscow and is threatening 'a year of blood and
tears' if Russia does not give up its claim to the region. Speaking in an online
video, the 46-year-old makes no mention of last month's suicide bombing at
Moscow's Domodedovo Airport.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday

Russian FSB head submits list of officials to be punished over terror attack

LENGTH: 247 words


Implementing Russian President Dmitriy Medvedev's instructions, Director of the
Federal Security Service (FSB) Aleksandr Bortnikov has submitted to the head of
state a list of officials that are to bear responsibility for the terrorist
attack at Domodedovo airport, the Kremlin has said, as quoted by Russian news
agency Interfax.

"Yes, the instruction has been fulfilled and the list of officials has been
submitted to the president," presidential spokeswoman Natalya Timakova has said.

On 27 January Medvedev told the Russian Interior Ministry and FSB to offer
proposals before 5 February on the responsibility of officials with these
bodies, who are responsible for combating terrorism and providing security on
transport.

Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev had already dismissed acting head of
the LUVD (leadership of the transport police directorate) Police Col Aleksandr
Trushanin, acting first deputy head of the LUVD Aleksandr Budtsov and acting
deputy head of the LUVD Aleksandr Degterev.

In an earlier report Interfax quoted a source in the Russian Interior Ministry
who said that no more dismissals were planned in the ministry and all personnel
decisions in relation to the Domodedovo terrorist attack had already been taken.

"The Russian Foreign Ministry has taken most tough decisions in relation to the
terrorist attack committed at Domodedovo on 24 January," the source told the
agency.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0707, 0657 gmt 8 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Gazette

                               February 10, 2011

Gran tells of terror as gang attacked James in her home

LENGTH: 437 words


by Annette Wilson

kentishgazette@thekmgroup.co.uk

A WOMAN told a jury how she froze with shock when three men armed with knives
and a baseball bat burst through her front door and attacked her grandson.

Elsie Keeling said she was standing holding her little granddaughter's hand when
her grandson James Middleton came in, pushed the door shut and told her to get
out of the way.

Moments later the door slammed open and she watched as her grandson tried to
shield himself with his arms as he was attacked with a knife.

She was giving evidence in the trial of five Whitstable men, three of whom deny
attempting to murder Mr Middleton last May.  The prosecution say Mr Middleton,
20, was repeatedly stabbed by Jim Chambers and Lee Dryburgh and hit with a
baseball bat by Alfie Rossiter.

Two others were allegedly outside attacking a car which contained Mr Middleton's
girlfriend and another woman who had allegedly been sexually assaulted by
Chambers earlier that day.

Mrs Keeling said Mr Middleton had arrived at her home at 35 Belmont Road,
Whitstable, and was about to go out again when he came back and shouted at her
to get out of the way.

"The front door slammed open. I was at the bottom of the stairs, and a person
came in followed by two more. James went down on the floor and was protecting
himself," said Mrs Keeling.

As he tried to shield himself she saw a knife go down past his head. The third
man came in with a bat but she did not see what he did with it.

"I was rooted to the spot holding my granddaughter's hand and James was beside
me. I froze with shock. Then I told her to run and we ran into my daughter's
house next door," she said.

The two houses were joined by a conservatory and as she went to go back to her
house, James came through covered in blood and said "get back Grandma".

"He pushed me back into next door and locked the door. He said they were chasing
him."

She said her daughter took over once he was there and Mrs Keeling wanted to go
back to fetch another child who was still in her home.

"I don't know how I was feeling. I was shocked. I just wanted to get back to my
grandson."

She did not see where the three men were and did not see anything outside
relating to the car.

"When I went back, James was on the stairs with my other daughter looking after
him. He was bleeding quite badly and I just got hold of him and he said 'I don't
feel too good Grandma'. I told him he was going to be all right."

She said in her home, there was blood spattered everywhere and marks on the wall
which she presumed were caused by the bat. An internal door was broken and her
front door also damaged.

The trial continues

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 11, 2011 Friday

Pakistan report discusses reasons behind rising terror attacks in northwest

LENGTH: 738 words


Text of report by Ismail Khan headlined "Mardan attack highlights flaws in
security strategy" published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on 11 February

Peshawar: The suicide bombing at Punjab Regiment Centre (PRC) in Mardan on
Thursday [10 February] was the deadliest on a security installation since
Pakistan Army launched an operation against militants in the Mehsud heartland of
South Waziristan in late 2009.

This was the third attack in the region on major installations of the Punjab
Regiment. The first attack, more devastating than the one on Thursday, took
place in the regiment's base in Dargai and claimed the lives of 40-odd recruits
in late 2006.

The second attack was more brazen as three armed militants, two of them wearing
suicide vests, tried to penetrate deep into the PRC in Mardan in July last year.
All three assailants were gunned down.

That a teenaged boy, wearing the school uniform of the army school situated on
the premises of the PRC, was used to carry out the suicide attack on Thursday
hardly came as a surprise. The militants have used teenagers as bombers in the
past.

Indeed, there have been at least two incidents involving women bombers,
including the one who killed 45 non-combatants queuing up for rations at a World
Food Programme outlet on Dec 25.

However, the way militants continue to plan and execute attacks, despite claims
by government and security forces that the back of militancy had been broken,
has come as a surprise.

The PRC bombing has all the footprints of the Swat Taleban, who are now
reportedly safely ensconced in the border region of Bajaur and Mohmand, along
the border with Afghanistan.

The area now is the target of a military/paramilitary operation and some
security officials believe that the recent surge in attacks is the result of the
push to flush out militants from their last remaining sanctuary in the region.

This may well be true in the context of the recent spate of attacks in Peshawar
and Charsadda, the two districts adjoining the Mohmand tribal region.

But the attacks are more sporadic and more widespread. Since mid-January, the
militants have carried out numerous attacks, bombings, suicide bombings and
target killings of policemen, military and paramilitary personnel and
non-combatants in the districts of Kohat, Hangu, Karak, Bannu, Dera Ismail Khan
and several parts of the tribal areas.

Security officials discern a tactical shift in the militants' strategy as
terrorists increasingly target policemen in the settled districts by way of
bombings and assassinations.

Several factors may be behind the surge in these attacks following a longish
pause that brought a semblance of normality in the once volatile region.
Complacency may be a reason, apparently emanating from the feel-good environment
and the belief within the security establishment that the tough battle had been
won.

However, the picture may not be rosy at all. There is a stalemate in Bara
sub-district in Khyber tribal region for close to two years now, with no durable
solution in sight. Darra Adamkhel and the Frontier Regions of Peshawar and
Kohat, too, are not fully under control.

Lack of fighting personnel and other resources is being cited as one of the
major reasons for the security forces' inability to finish their work in the
areas around Peshawar and some southern districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

This may be true. But while it was clear that militants would sneak into the
urban areas after being driven out of their tribal sanctuaries, no steps seem to
have been taken to expand the human intelligence network to catch those trying
to find new nests to roost.

The most important piece missing from the military's Counter-Insurgency (COIN)
strategy -- which is described as Clear (the area of militants), Hold (the
area), and Transfer (it) -- seems to be the last factor mentioned (transfer the
area).

Had the military been able to transfer to the civilian administration an area
after clearing it of militants, it would be in a position to carry on the fight
in some other area.

The existing strategy may be working in Swat but not so much in other areas.
Lack of vision and that of clear benchmarks has contributed to the prevailing
situation.

So, unless those formulating the strategy sit up and begin to gather the
necessary tools to make it work, what has been won and regained after tremendous
sacrifices may be lost.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 11 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday

'Doomsday' terror attack simulation in Lancashire

BYLINE: Chris Gee

SECTION: EAST LANCASHIRE NEWS (EASTLANCASHIRE)

LENGTH: 322 words


A TERROR attack on an aeroplane was the "doomsday scenario" created in
Lancashire this weekend in one of the biggest emergency simulations ever staged
in the region.

More than 150 fire officers and dozens of personnel from other emergency
services were involved in the 15-hour operation which also involved the scenario
that nuclear radiation had been released.

To ensure realism, an 80ft aircraft fuselage had been embedded by crane into a
two storey industrial unit at the scene of the operation, Washington Hall Fire
Training Centre, near Chorley.

Fire crews from throughout East Lancashire were called to the scene, including a
specialist decontamination team from Burnley, one of only two in the county.

Around 40 "casualties", in gory makeup were employed to simulate victims of the
incident and played their part to the full as screams could be heard among the
staged fires and from within the aircraft.

Other fire services involved in the exercise, codenamed Operation Dakota, were
Greater Manchester, Merseyside, Northern Ireland, Isle of Man and Sellafield.

The Air Ambulance was also in attendance and another element of the day were two
"fatalities", including a crash-test dummy which had been wedged high up in a
tree.

One of the exercise directors on the day was Darryl Sturgess, who lives in
Darwen and is a member of the urban search and rescue team.

He said: "This a massive challenge for all the services involved and our aim is
for it to be as realistic as possible.

"All the teams involved had no prior knowledge that they would be doing this
today.

"The circumstances we developed are as close as it could get to a worst case
scenario and will help all the services train and prepare for major incidents."

The premise of the day was that terrorists attempted to hijack an aircraft
carrying dignitaries and radioactive materials into Warton aerodrome.

Following resistance from passengers the plane crash-landed in Chorley.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The News of the World (England)

                               February 13, 2011
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Terror of attack MP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 59 words


A LABOUR MP admits he has not held drop-in sessions for his constituents for 14
YEARS.

Sir Stuart Bell says it is because he was attacked twice in 1997 by a crazed man
who is still at large.

Now Middlesbrough constituents can only see their MP by appointment.

Sir Stuart, 72, said: "I was attacked and needed police protection. This guy
still threatens me."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NOWscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           February 13, 2011, Sunday

BATTERED BY TARTAN TERRORIST;
BUSBY JAIL ATTACK RAP

BYLINE: NORMAN SILVESTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 212 words


TARTAN terrorist Adam Busby has been given an extra four months in jail for a
violent attack on a prison guard.

He had admitted punching and injuring warden David Dunn in a segregation cell at
maximum-security Shotts Prison last September at an earlier court hearing.

Last week Busby, who is serving a six-year term for terrorist offences, appeared
amid high security at Hamilton SheriffCourt for sentencing.

SheriffThomas Millar told him he must serve the four months once he has finished
the six-year term.

It is the second time recently Busby has got extra jail time for attacks on
prison officers.

He was also convicted last November of attacking warders who opened his cell
door in the segregation unit at Addiewell jail in West Lothian. He cut an
officer's lip with a punch.

At Livingston SheriffCourt, Busby was found guilty of assault and given an extra
six months in jail. He was then moved to Shotts, where he carried out the new
assault.

Busby, whose dad Adam Snr founded the Scottish National Liberation Army, was
jailed for six years in June 2009 for a hoax bomb campaign targeted at
politicians.

He said he did it to highlight the ill health of his dad, who was jailed for
four years in Ireland last July for bomb hoaxes.

nnnnn SUNDAY EMAIL n.silvester@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Guard attack: Busby

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           February 13, 2011, Sunday

LEGEND LIZ HAS HEART ATTACK;
AILING TAYLOR, 78, IN TERROR HOSPITAL DASH

BYLINE: FIONA YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 376 words


HOLLYWOOD icon Elizabeth Taylor has been rushed to hospital with congestive
heart failure.

The Oscar-winning actress was admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los
Angeles within the past few days.

Her spokeswoman Sally Morrison said the 78-yearold - idolised as one of the
great screen beauties - was being treated for symptoms of the heart condition.

Taylor revealed in November 2004 that she was suffering from congestive heart
failure.

Her health has been deteriorating and she has been using a wheelchair for public
appearances in recent years.

Morrison said it is unknown how long the actress might be in the hospital.

She added that Taylor's family appreciated the support from fans but asked for
privacy to allow the medical team space to do their work.

Taylor had been scheduled to attend an amfAR benefit gala in New York last
Wednesday She was to receive an award alongside former president Bill Clinton
and designer Diane von Furstenberg, celebrating their dedication to Aids
research.

But she missed the event and Elton John accepted the honour on her behalf.

He passed on a message from her: "I am there in spirit and I join you in
saluting my fellow honourees and all these extraordinary leaders.

"I am inspired by their example, exhilarated by their vision, and encouraged by
their compassion and love. And I love them in return."

Taylor, who has appeared in more than 50 films, won Oscars for her performances
in Butterfield 8 (1960) and Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf? (1966).

But she has been just as famous for her marriages - eight of them, including two
to Richard Burton.

She has also had lifelong battles with substance abuse, her weight and physical
ailments.

She has endured more than 20 major operations and gone through countless
treatments.

The actress had nearfatal bouts with pneumonia in 1961 and 1990, and another
respiratory infection forced her to cancel all engagements for several weeks in
late 1992.

She had both hip joints replaced in 1994 and 1995.

Her 2004 diagnosis for congestive heart failure, compounded with spinal
fractures and the effects of scoliosis, left her nearly bedridden.

She has also battled ulcers, amoebic dysentery, bursitis, and had a benign brain
tumour removed in 1997.

SUNDAY EMAIL reporters@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Treatment: Liz, above, is ill. Elton, right, collected her gong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dog walker tells of stab attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 387 words


The wife of a prominent businessman has told a court of her terror as she was
attacked by a man who repeatedly stabbed her in the back with a screwdriver.

Shirley Speare, wife of Plymouth carpets and beds retailer Larry Speare, was
giving evidence on the first day of the trial of Nicholas Killen.

He denies attempted murder and three other related offences.

The trial heard how Mrs Speare was brutally attacked with a screwdriver as she
walked her dog, Archie.

She kicked off her shoes and fled barefoot for her life before collapsing with
multiple stab wounds, a punctured and collapsed lung and a broken rib, the court
was told.

A neighbour, Michael Cosby, who came to her aid was also assaulted, suffering a
broken nose.

Mrs Speare said she initially thought her attacker was joking, as he began
chasing her dog and roaring, while making stabbing motions while holding a
screwdriver.

"But then he stood and stared at me and I realised I had to get away from him,"
she told the court. "I was terrified."

"I had just got past him when he started to stab me in the back.

"I could feel the instrument and the warmth of the blood.

"He stabbed me lots of times in my back and three or four times in my neck and
hair."

Prosecutor Nick Lewin told the jury the peace and quiet of the village of
Yealmpton near Plymouth was shattered on September 28, 2009, by "an unexpected
uproar and an apparently motiveless attack". He said the Speares had lived in
the village for 20 years and were due to fly to Portugal on holiday that day.

Mrs Speare decided to take Archie, their collie-Jack Russell cross, for a final
walk about 11.15am while her husband had a bath and she set off on their usual
route along the Erme Trail.

After about 20 minutes, she was suddenly confronted by a man the prosecution say
was Killen, said Mr Lewin.

Mr Lewin said Killen had a rolled-up cigarette in his hand which he discarded.
Police later found it with his DNA on it.

Killen, aged 35 and of Woodland Drive, Brixton, denies four offences: attempting
to murder Mrs Speare, an alternative count of assaulting Mrs Speare causing her
grievous bodily harm, possessing an offensive weapon in a public place and
assaulting Mr Cosby, causing actual bodily harm, all on the same date.

The trial continues.

'He stood and stared at me and I realised I had to get away' Shirley Speare

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday

I Didn't Plan A Terror Attack

BYLINE: Tom Mullen

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 330 words


A TYNESIDE terror suspect accused of conspiring to blow up a plane said he
believed he was "living in sin" by taking his family to Britain.

But devout Muslim Rajib Karim told a court he "never" planned a terror attack
while working as a computer expert for British Airways in Newcastle.

The 31-year-old, from Gosforth, said he sent messages to his brother in code
because of fears over torture in Bangladesh, where he has relatives.

The prosecution alleges he was communicating with a terror cell in secret e-mail
exchanges and sharing details of his BA contacts from his home.

Giving evidence at Woolwich Crown Court in London, Karim said he sent encrypted
messages to his younger brother because of concerns for relatives' safety, and
helped to make a video about an organisation called Jamaat-Ul Mujahideen
Bangladesh because they were being "misrepresented".

James Wood QC, defending, asked him: "Did you ever intend to commit an act of
terrorism in the UK?" Karim replied: "Never."

He went on to say he believed he would be "living in sin" by moving to Britain.

"That's why I asked my wife to settle in Bangladesh," he said.

He was forced to move here with his wife and child in 2006 amid fears his
toddler son had bowel cancer.

Karim is accused of plotting to blow up a plane, sharing information of use to
hate groups such as al Qaeda, offering to help financial or disruptive attacks
on BA and gaining a UK job to "exploit terrorist purposes", which he denies.

He joined BA in September 2007 on its graduate training scheme.

The defendant told how he had become a devout Muslim in the years before,
leading him to "drift away" from some of his friends who were "drinking and
swearing".

He attended two mosques   Grange Park Mosque and University of Newcastle Mosque
and was not known to hold extreme views, the court heard.

Karim has already pleaded guilty to three charges of being involved in the
production of a terrorist group's video, fundraising and volunteering for terror
abroad.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Glaswegian

                               February 17, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GANG FEAR FOR FAMILY;
Dad tells of terror after attacks

BYLINE: Emma Smith

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 507 words


A DAD has spoken of his fears for his family's safety after a series of
vandalism attacks by a gang who are terrorising his street.

Thugs have repeatedly attacked cars and threatened residents and the worried dad
claims they even forced a family to move after an armed youth ordered them to
leave the area.

The 44-year-old moved to Clarkston three years ago as he thought it would be a
safe place to raise his daughter.

But he has since had to make numerous calls to the policeabout consistent
vandalism to his car in Monteith Drive.

Recently his car was stolen after thugs took keys from his home. The burned-out
vehicle was later found by police just 500 yards from his house.

A few days later the gang struck again - scratching the driver's side of the
hire car he was using as a replacement.

And within a week the thugs covered the car in scratches - causing at least
£1000 worth of damage.

The dad, who does not wish to be named because he's terrified of further
repercussions, has also been verbally threatened and had bottles thrown at him
in his own garden. He added: "I'm upset and angry - mostly due to the distress
this hadcausedtomypartnerandmyfive-yearold daughter - given what I knew about
previous incidents in the street.

"The police were called and at least this time they took my situation more
seriously. However, without evidence I was told they could do little.

"I'm out of pocket for more than £900 in insurance excess payments. I can barely
afford a new car and even if I could, I cannot park it outside my own home.

"Due to this extra cost I can barely feed my family or pay my bills this month."

Other residents on the street have also been targeted by the vandals.

Headded:"I'mawarethistypeofcrime happens from time to time but this is a
persistent ongoing problem that brings anxiety and misery to ordinary
hardworking families in the area.

"I'm sure many Glasgow residents would assume Clarkston is an affluent
middle-class area with low crime. I can assure you this is far removed from the
TURN TO PAGE 2

FROM PAGE 1 reality. I was brought up in Ruchazie, Tollcross and Castlemilk and
never experienced anything quite as bad."

The dad claims police were called to the street in August after 10 neighbours
had their cars vandalised.

He also alleges that a family ended up selling their house after a youth came to
their door with a knife and ordered them to leave the area.

The dad added: "My poor neighbours suffered months of intimidation, abuse and
verbal threats and vandalism."

East Renfrewshire Councillor Ralph Robertson said: "There is a group of youths
who seem to be causing havoc in the area. " Strathclyde Police said they had
received around 12 youth related calls in the past year about Monteith Drive.

However they said no report was made about a family being forced to move after
receivng threats from an armed youth .

A spokesman said: "We are constantly working to reduce crime and disorder. We
take this and all matters very seriously and will contact the gentleman to
address any concerns."

FROM PAGE 1 reality. I [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLA


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror, plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

MUM-TO-BE JAILED FOR A YEAR AFTER MUGGING TERROR;
Attacker could give birth behind bars

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 364 words


A PREGNANT woman and her boyfriend have each been jailed for a year after they
threatened to stab an innocent stranger and then mugged her.

Paisley couple Cheryl Haggerty, 29, and Michael Corcoran, 25, pounced on their
victim as she was walking home at night.

Haggerty - who is now expecting a baby that will be born in prison - approached
Donna McFarlane and a friend in Well Street, Paisley, just before 10pm on
October 12, last year, and asked them: "Do you know me?" In the moments that
followed, both Haggerty and Corcoran walked behind their targets.

Haggerty then grabbed Ms McFarlane, spun her around and got hold of the shoulder
strap of her bag.

At this stage, Corcoran chillingly asked their victim: "Do you want stabbed with
a screwdriver?" and Haggerty added: "Gie's that."

Haggerty then snatched the handbag and both accused ran off towards nearby
Underwood Lane.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard that two police officers just happened to pass the
two accused and thought they were arguing, so turned back to talk to them.

Corcoran, who was drunk, was spoken to by the cops and was arrested, while
Haggerty was traced later.

In court, Corcoran, of Ferguslie Park Avenue, and Haggerty, of Sutherland
Street, admitted robbing Ms McFarlane after placing her in a state of fear and
alarm.

It was stated that the threats they issued had convinced their victim to let go
of her bag.

Defence agents for Corcoran and Haggerty stressed that, although threats were
issued, the couple had not been in possession of a weapon and Ms McFarlane had
not been injured.

The court was told that Corcoran had alcohol abuse problems which lay behind all
of his offending and that Haggerty, who was now three months' pregnant, had been
taking drugs at the time of the offence but was now clean.

It was stated they both accepted that what they had done was "inexcusable".

After studying reports and considering submissions, Sheriff David Pender said:
"The public have to be able to go about their business without the fear of
something like this happening to them.

"Although no weapon was used, the threats implied were sufficient to persuade
the complainer to part with her handbag."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

Teen tells of attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 41 words


A YOUNG Teesside woman was badly beaten in a terrifying attack as she made her
way home from a night out.

Sara Wilson, 19, right, was set upon by a man in a business park as she walked
the short distance to her Thornaby home.

Full story: Page 3

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2011 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday

Afghan paper says terror attacks cannot stop peace efforts

LENGTH: 286 words


Text of an editorial in Dari entitled: "Terrorist attacks cannot prevent
ensuring security in the country", published by state-owned Afghan newspaper
Anis on 19 February

We witnessed some terrorist attacks in different parts of the country last week.
The suicide attacks which took place in the west of Khost Province and outside a
market in Kabul and also the attack by armed men on a hotel in Kandahar city
have caused great concern. Many of our innocent people were killed in the recent
attacks.

The attacks come at a time when the peace process is stimulated in our country
and some Afghan provinces are freed from armed fighters. Moreover, dozens of
opponents of the government have welcomed a [peace] offer from the Afghan High
Peace Council and have been disarmed.

Undoubtedly, some insurgents cannot tolerate recent developments in the peace
process. They are trying to disrupt the process and spark war. However, they are
not aware that Afghans are faithful to their responsibility of ensuring peace in
Afghanistan. The answer of the Afghan people to these criminals is (We do not
lose) [as published]. The Afghan people have taken new steps and nothing can
prevent them. Therefore, those who still think about hatching plots against the
Afghan nation must understand this reality and stop killing our innocent people.

Afghan President Hamed Karzai has strongly condemned the recent terrorist
attacks in the country, saying the terrorists only cause civilian casualties
through their attacks. The continuation of such attacks proves that the
terrorists are the enemies of civilians and innocent people. In addition, they
want our people to always suffer misery and pain.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 19 Feb 11, p 1

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday

Two police officers die in "terrorist" attack in western Iran

LENGTH: 131 words


Two officers of the police headquarters in the border town of Marivan, west of
Iran, have been killed in a "terrorist operation", the Iranian Students News
Agency reported on 20 February.

The report quoted Colonel Qanbari, the deputy commander of the police HQ of
Kordestan province, as saying: "In a terrorist operation Last night, 30 Bahman
[19 February] unknown individuals attacked a police patrol unit in the town of
Marivan killing two people and injuring another two."

He added: "Extensive measures are being taken to identify the culprits involved
in this terrorist attack."

ISNA added: "The funeral procession for the two 'martyrs' passed the Jame'
mosque in the city of Sanandaj, [Kordestan Province], a few minutes ago."

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1031 gmt 20 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday

Afghan paper says clergy should not keep mum about terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 433 words


Text of report headlined "Ministry of Islamic affairs and esteemed scholars
should not keep silent" by private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 20
February:

Armed opponents of the Afghan government launched attacks on a Kabul Bank branch
in Jalalabad city [the capital of eastern Nangarhar Province] yesterday, as
result of which large numbers of civilians were either killed or wounded. In the
past, the Taleban had organized such attacks on shopping malls in Kabul city and
establishments in [southern] Kandahar, Helmand and [eastern] Khost provinces, as
result of which large numbers of women and children were killed.

These unsavoury and horrific incidents show that armed groups opposing the
government are determined to attack public establishments in order to kill
civilians and innocent people as well. This crime has been committed at a time
when members of the Afghan High Peace Council [AHPC] are speaking about holding
peace talks with the armed group opposing the government and urging the
government and international forces to ensure the security of those Taleban
leaders who will reportedly arrive in the country to hold peace talks.

The Afghan people do not know on what Shari'ah instructions armed groups
opposing the government, especially the Taleban, shed blood of civilians and
innocent people or how they can explain un-Islamic acts are based on.

Afghan religious scholars have an obligation not to remain silent about crimes
which are committed by those people who do not fear God and they also have an
obligation to tell the truth. Taking this issue into consideration, the Afghan
Hajj and Islamic Affairs Ministry has always kept silence in such incidents and
has not yet taken any effective action in this regard. It is worth pointing out
that the ministry can discuss the issue with imams and mosque preachers. It
should advise them to denounce such barbaric acts because of respected Muslims
and the religion.

As a result, Afghans will not notice Islam in the faces of the brutal criminals
[the Taleban and terrorists] and should be accurately informed about the Islamic
instructions.

If the Hajj and Islamic Ministry knows its main responsibilities, terrorists
will not be able to have influence in mosques. If the ministry makes
considerable efforts to launch a programme for those suicide bombers who do not
have sufficient information about the Islamic instructions, it might be possible
that most of them will regret to carry out suicide attacks or kill civilians in
the country. But unfortunately...[ellipsis as published]

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 20 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

IRA THREATENS ROYAL WEDDING TERROR ATTACK;
Security fears as MP warns dissidents plan spectacular EXCLUSIVE Security fears
over wedding

BYLINE: Camilla Tominey

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 385 words


THE Royal Wedding is at the centre of a terror threat amid fears dissident Irish
republicans plan to target Prince William, a senior MP warned last night.

Police have been told of growing concerns about the event on April 29 as William
marries Kate Middleton.

There are also fears about Westminster Abbey being targeted by anti-Government
anarchists, causing a major security nightmare around the Royals and their long
list of VIP guests.

Patrick Mercer, Conservative MP and ex-chairman of the Commons committee sc* on
anti-terrorism, said police and Army intelligence officers are worried about at
least three splinter groups, raising concerns of a repeat of the 1979 bombing
that killed Lord Louis Mountbatten.

The Queen's visit to Ireland could also be a target. Mr Mercer, a former Army
officer who has completed nine tours of Northern Ireland, said: "The timing of

Royal Wedding seems to me to be curiously close to Easter when Republicans will
be looking for an excuse to demonstrate.

"We should be under no illusions that, while the Queen's visit to Dublin is a
good thing, it also will attract Republican activity."

Last August, Mr Mercer warned that terrorists were planning to target the
Conservative Party Conference. On October 5, the day before David Cameron's
keynote speech to the conference in Birmingham, a car bomb went off outside the
Ulster Bank in Londonderry. The Real IRA claimed responsibility for the
explosion.

Last September, the Home Office raised the threat level from Irish-related
terrorism from moderate to substantial in the UK, a month after a car containing
200lb of explosives went off outside a Londonderry police station.

Improved relations between Westminster and Dublin have only recently made it
possible for Buckingham Palace to even entertain the idea of a visit to Ireland
by the Queen. She will become the first British monarch to visit the country
since her grandfather George V went in 1911 before the Republic had secured
independence.

Dai Davies, a former head of Royalty Protection, said the threat from
Irish-related terrorism is "real", but said police are more concerned about
anti-establishment groups.

"The IRA and its many factions continue to pose a real threat, but the bigger
threat to the Royal wedding is from anti-establishment protestors which is
escalating."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DATE: Kate and William will marry in Westminster Abbey
BRIDE: Kate Middleton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

Afghan paper urges clerics not to remain "silent" on terror attacks

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of editorial headlined "Ministry of Islamic affairs and esteemed scholars
should not keep silent!" published by Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 20
February

The government's armed opposition attacked Kabul Bank branch in Jalalabad City
yesterday. The attack killed and injured many innocent people. The Taleban also
attacked a supermarket in Kabul and some buildings in Kandahar, Khost and
Helmand provinces which have killed many women and children recently.

The recent events indicate that members of the armed opposition are attacking
public places intentionally to kill civilians. The crimes are taking place at a
time when members of Afghanistan's High Peace Council are working on opening
negotiations with the armed opposition. They urge the Afghan government and
international forces to ensure security of the Taleban leaders who may come to
Afghanistan. The Afghan people do not know with what type of Islamic
justification and permission the opposition, particularly the Taleban, justify
their non-Islamic acts?

We believe that Afghan religious scholars have the responsibility not to be
silent against crimes committed by those who are using the name of Islam. The
scholars must not avoid telling the truth. Moreover, the Ministry of Hajj and
Islamic Affairs has always remained silent when such events occur. However, the
ministry is able to at least address religious scholars in mosques to condemn
subversive and non-Islamic activities in the country.

Terrorists would not be able to enter the mosques if the Ministry of Islamic
Affairs fulfils its responsibility. Furthermore, if the ministry works
comprehensively, a number of Taleban fighters - who do not have the correct
understanding of Islam and religious laws - will be guided. Some of them may not
commit suicide attacks and will not kill innocent civilians.

But unfortunately. [As published]

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 20 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

Moscow police looking for car that may used in terrorist attack - radio

LENGTH: 107 words


Moscow police are searching for a motor vehicle which may be used by militants,
Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station Ekho Moskvy
reported on 23 February.

Police officers are looking for a white Zhiguli car with number plates
registered in the Republic of Bashkortostan, Ekho Moskvy said. The car may be
used for terrorist purposes, a source in the law-enforcement agencies earlier
told Interfax news agency. The source, however, did not give any details. Ekho
Moskvy has not yet received an official confirmation of this information, the
radio station said.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0800 gmt 23 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          February 24, 2011, Thursday

JEWEL GANG ROB OAP IN KNIFE TERROR RAID;
ATTACKER MAY HAVE BEEN JUST 14, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: Paul Drury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 297 words


ROBBERS threatened an elderly couple at knifepoint and tied them up in a violent
jewellery robbery.

Two raiders, one of whom may have been as young as 14, smashed their way into
Jahan Ara Mobarak's home after tricking her into opening her door.

They tied 71-year-old Jahan up with telephone cable and demanded to know where
her valuables and safe were.

Twenty minutes into her ordeal, her businessman husband Riaz, 74, returned to
their pounds 750,000 detached villa and was also attacked and tied up.

Ransom The robbers, who were in the house for 90 minutes, finally escaped with
jewellery and valuables, leaving the couple tied up in separate rooms.

And they callously told terrified Jahan that they were taking her husband away
for ransom.

Yesterday, Jahan, from Giffnock, near Glasgow, relived her Tuesday lunchtime
ordeal.

She said: "He pushed me down and asked me where the safe was. He was shouting
that he knew I had jewellery and money.

"We were preparing to go to a wedding in Dundee, so I had laid out my diamonds
on the bed. He said he was going to cut off my finger and shoot my husband
unless we said where the safe was."

Cash-and-carry director Riaz said: "You see these things on the telly but you
never think they could happen to you."

The thieves took a Rolex watch, an expensive diamond solitaire ring, three other
rings, a gold pendant, some money and a Nokia mobile phone. The couple's car
keys were also taken.

Detective Inspector Craig Willison appealed for witnesses and said: "This was a
terrifying experience for the couple, who are extremely shocked and distressed."

The first suspect was white, 35-40 years, 6ft 3in-6ft 4in and of stocky build.
He was wearing dark clothing and working boots.

The second suspect is described as white, 14-17, 5ft 5in and of medium build.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL: Detective Inspector Craig Willison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

Pensioner's terror at arsonists' attack

BYLINE: KATE FORRESTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 244 words


A PENSIONER says she has been left shaken and unable to sleep after arsonists
set light to her shed in the middle of the night.

Marion Williams, 74, of Wood Lane, Pen-y-Maes, Holywell, was woken by noises at
about midnight on Saturday.

"I heard two muffled bangs and then a massive bang," she said.

"I ran downstairs and looked out of the front window, but I couldn't see
anything. When I turned and looked through the back I just saw all this light -
it was like an inferno."

She rang 999 and ran to her neighbours' house to wake them up in case the fire
spread.

"I ran down the road to my son Alan's house and was hammering on his door to get
him up," said Mrs Williams.

"I was in such a state."

The fire burnt the shed to the ground and melted Mrs Williams's oil tank, which
left her without heating.

She said: "I don't feel safe in my own home since this has happened. On Sunday I
couldn't stop shaking. I can't sleep at night now.

"It's just sheer vandalism, it's senseless. Someone could have been killed.

"The fire was so close to my house and the neighbours and if the wind had been
blowing in a different direction it could have been a lot worse."

North Flintshire Sergeant John Williams said police have launched a joint
investigation into the incident with the fire service.

He added: "We are appealing for anyone who witnessed anything or might have
information to contact us."

Anyone with information should call police on 0845 607 1002.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 25, 2011 Friday

Afghan paper condemns targeting of civilians in terror attacks

LENGTH: 391 words


Text of an editorial in Pashto entitled: "Attack against civilians, ugliest
aspect of terrorism", published by state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 22
February

A suicide attacker targeted a crowd of civilian people yesterday in Imam Saheb
District of Konduz Province when the people were trying to get identity cards of
their proud country. He killed or wounded many civilians. Many families in Imam
Saheb District were saddened. President Hamed Karzai and his cabinet strongly
condemned the attack and ordered the relevant agencies to arrest the
perpetrators of the attack and prosecute them. Over the past few days, many
bloody attacks have taken place in different parts of the country. The suicide
attacks in Kandahar, Khost and Nangarhar Provinces killed or wounded many
innocent civilians.

These attacks have created many concerns. It seems that the armed opposition has
changed its tactics. If we review the recent attacks, we will see that all the
attacks came in places where the ordinary people gathered for their daily
activities. For instance, the attack in Imam Saheb District of Konduz Province
had no military targets. There were no foreign or Afghan military forces. There
were only some ordinary civilian people from the villages of the district who
had come to get identity cards.

Such attacks against civilian people are the ugliest aspect of terrorism. We are
surprised by the conscience of those who target civilians, attack them and kill
them. Killing civilian people is not acceptable whatever the reason, whatever
the goals and whatever it is for. The people have cursed the perpetrators of
these attacks while strongly condemning them.

It is obvious that such attacks cannot create any strategic changes in favour of
the armed opposition in the current military situation. Also, the armed
opposition does not have the capability to fight the Afghan national army and
police and the international forces face-to-face. It tries to show its physical
presence as well as create an atmosphere of fear among the people by conducting
such attacks.

The country's security officials should review the security system of the cities
and districts taking into consideration the new tactics of the armed opposition,
and should take serious measures to prevent and defuse such bloody attacks.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 22 Feb 11, p 1

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 25, 2011 Friday

Three killed in attack on "terrorist den" - Iraqi TV

LENGTH: 70 words


Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV at 1041 gmt on 25 February carries
the following "breaking news" screen caption: "General commander's office says
that terrorist Husayn Talib and two assistants were killed during an attack
launched by the security forces on a terrorist den in Al-Suwayf area while the
terrorists were planning to target the protests."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1041 gmt 25 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 25, 2011 Friday

Iraqi minister says "terrorist attacks" planned against 25 Feb protests; roundup

LENGTH: 810 words


Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV, in its 1300 and 1700 gmt newscasts
on 24 February, reports on a statement by Major General Qasim Ata, spokesman for
the Baghdad Operations Command, that the security forces confiscated 500 fake
licences to carry weapons; a statement by acting Security Minister Adnan
al-Asadi that there are "terrorist" plans against the 25 February protestors; a
speech by National Alliance leader Ibrahim al-Ja'fari on the 25 February
protests; a statement by Aaron Snipe, spokesman for the US Embassy in Baghdad,
that the US supports the democratic process in Iraq and supports Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki's speech; the Ministry of Oil's decision to postpone signing a
contract to develop Ukaz gas field in Al-Anbar; and other political
developments.

Political Developments

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

-  "Major General Qasim Ata, spokesman for the Baghdad Operations Command [BOC],
has denied that the office of the commander in chief of the Armed Forces or BOC
has published any statements that offend any political or religious figure. Ata,
in a press statement, said that the security forces, based on intelligence
information, were able to confiscate 500 fake licenses that allow infiltrators
to carry weapons in tomorrow's protests."

-  "Acting Security Minister Adnan al-Asadi has revealed the presence of 40
intelligence documents that reveal plans to carry out terrorist attacks, kill,
burn, and stab the protestors on Friday [25 February]. Al-Asadi, in a press
statement, highlighted that the ministry received information which confirm that
terrorist groups plan to booby-trap some mentally-handicapped people and push
them between the protestors or to burn them to claim later that journalists
burnt themselves during the protests. He added that other information confirmed
the intention of some infiltrators to wear a military uniform in the protests
and stab or shoot protestors."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

At 1705 gmt, the channel interrupts its newscast to carry live an 11-minute
speech by National Alliance leader Ibrahim al-Ja'fari.

Al-Ja'fari says that the "protests, for us, are a legitimate expression endorsed
by divine religions, human values, various social ethics, and was enshrined in
and adopted by the new Iraqi Constitution." Al-Ja'fari speaks about Saddam
Husayn's repression of protests in Iraq and about the "dictators" in the Arab
world and how people managed to protest against such "life-long tyrants." He
adds: "We [Iraqis] were born from the womb of peaceful and civil protests."
Al-Ja'fari says the demands of the people are legitimate but he warns against
the return of the "Ba'th regime" and calls on Iraqis to fight this.

-  "Some are trying to sabotage and distort the image of Iraq - the country that
became a model for democracy in the Middle East, which some Arab and regional
regimes fear - by staging protests that vandals take advantage of. Notables and
tribesmen in the holy Karbala Governorate have underlined the illegitimacy of
those protests because they are not staged against a totalitarian or a
repressive regime, and underlined that the parliament is the best evidence of a
democratic state."

-  "Aaron Snipe, spokesman for the US Embassy in Baghdad, has affirmed the US
support for a democratic process in Iraq and for Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's
speech. Snipe, in an exclusive statement to Al-Iraqiyah TV, said that Iraq is a
democratic country and that the Iraqi citizens have the right to protest in a
peaceful manner."

-  "Justice Minister Hasan al-Shammari has underlined ongoing preparations to
set up proper and safe prisons and detention places to receive the prisoners and
detainees from the US side, according to the agreement of the US forces'
withdrawal from Iraq."

-  "Judge Midhat al-Mahmud, chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council,
highlighted that all legal measures will be taken in case of any violation
against any of the detainees. He underlined in a press statement that all
detainees are presented before medical committees and a file is opened for them
in the judiciary."

-  "The Ministry of Oil has postponed signing a contract with the winning
bidders in the third round of licenses to develop the Ukaz gas field. The
ministry was supposed to sign the contract, in its headquarters in Baghdad, with
South Korean Kogas and Kazakhstan's Cogas and Monai Gas companies to develop the
[gas] field in the Al-Anbar Governorate at a price of $5.5 per square foot and
reach a production average of 40 million square feet of gas on a daily basis. It
is noted that the local government in Al-Anbar demanded building an electricity
power plant near the gas field, which the ministry says is not included in the
contract."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300-1700 gmt 24 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Coulsdon and Purley Advertiser

                               February 25, 2011

Shoppers' terror as robbers attack cashpoint guard

BYLINE: Joanna Till and Richard O'Toole joanna.till@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 356 words


A Gang of robbers attacked a  security guard in front of terrified shoppers at
Tesco in broad  daylight.

The incident took place on Monday  as a security guard from G4S filled up the
cash machine outside the store, in Brighton Road, Purley, at about 1pm.

Witnesses described seeing robbers grappling with the guard as they tried to
steal the cash.

A woman, who saw what happened as she parked her car, said: "The G4S man was
trying to explain to them that all the money was locked away and he could not
get to it.

"I have never been so terrified. I didn't know what to do."

Another eyewitness, who was waiting to withdraw money, said: "It all happened so
fast and no one could quite believe it."

According to witnesses, the robbers grabbed a cash box before piling into a
silver Renault Clio and speeding away.

A high-speed chase involving police cars and a helicopter ensued.

A police spokesman said the Clio collided with another car on the A236
Southbridge Road, but no one was hurt. The suspects then swung into Surrey
Street market in the heart of Croydon.

Trader Russell Smith, 49,  described seeing the car "screeching" around the
corner before colliding with another vehicle.

"They started bailing halfway down (the road) and then there was a loud bang,"
he added. "At that point they did bail out and scattered."

Abdul Rehman, 17, said he was at his stall when he heard sirens.

"It seemed like there were police and ambulances coming inside the market," he
added.

"Then I saw the car, and we were shocked because cars are not allowed in the
market."

A cash box was recovered in Surrey Street but police have not confirmed whether
or not the suspects escaped with any money.

Two suspects were arrested after the incident.

On Tuesday, a 24-year-old man, of no fixed abode, was charged with robbery. He
appeared at Tower Bridge Magistrates' Court on Wednesday and did not enter a
plea. He was remanded in custody until his next appearance at the Old Bailey. A
date has yet to be set.

A 17-year-old boy was also arrested after the incident and released on police
bail, pending further inquiries.

It is believed a third suspect may still be at large.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 302


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

WHY DID GUNMEN TRY TO SHOOT A BOY OF 3?;
MUM TELLS HOW FAMILY FLED IN TERROR DURING ATTACK

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 293 words


A MUM last night called on gunmen who opened fire on her and her three-year-old
son to say why they tried to kill them.

Teresa Duffy and her little boy had to run for their lives as two thugs shot at
their home on Saturday.

They were in the kitchen of the bungalow in Strabane at around 7.15pm when the
attack happened in the Co Tyrone town's Ballycolman area.

Teresa told the Daily Mirror: "They came at the house last Saturday and tried to
kick in the door so we had a bin up against the back gate.

"We heard the bin moving and looked out and could see the arms moving up.

I grabbed the child and started to run but the shots were fired before I made it
out into the hall.

"They came through the back door and went into the ceiling. I was about three
feet away from the door they came through. They could have killed me or my
child.

"I want to know why they have done this, why they shot at me and a
three-year-old boy. The wee fella's in shock, he was having nightmares all last
night. A child shouldn't have to go through something like this, it's awful."

Two men were seen running away from the house. A man aged 35 along with Teresa's
partner and her 22-yearold sister were also in the property and were unhurt.
SDLP councillor Eugene McMenamin it was a reckless attack.

He added: "There is absolutely no justification for this attack. It is a very
worrying incident. I cannot understand why anyone would fire live rounds into a
house with a young woman and child inside.

"Thank God we are not looking at a fatality especially when you have armed men
shoot at a home this could easily have been the case. The trauma that this woman
and child have gone through is horrendous and totally unacceptable.

"I would urge anyone with any information to give it to the police."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BULLETS J Mum and son outside Strabane home yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

BA computer expert plotted terror attack

BYLINE: TOM MORGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 492 words


A BRITISH AIRWAYS computer expert was yesterday convicted of plotting to launch
a 9/11-style terror attack from the UK.

Rajib Karim, 31, wanted to use his position at the airline to plant a bomb on a
plane as part of a "chilling" conspiracy with Anwar al-Awlaki, a notorious
radical preacher associated with Al-Qaeda.

Among numerous plots to bring the airline to its knees, Karim hoped he could
exploit airline strikes to become cabin crew and cause an explosion on a
US-bound flight.

In encrypted emails with his brother and terror contacts in Iraq, Bangladesh,
Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan, he also discussed how he could attack BA
computer servers and ground its entire fleet.

The father-of-one was found guilty atWoolwich Crown Court of four counts of
planning terrorism after a jury heard he was "committed to an extreme jihadist
and religious cause" and was "determined to seek martyrdom".

Scotland Yard described the case as the most sophisticated decryption task it
had ever undertaken.

Speaking afterwards, Home Secretary Theresa May said the "heinous plot shows why
we will never be complacent".

Colin Gibbs, a counter-terrorism lawyer for the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS),
described Karim's deep determination to plan an attack as "frightening".

"The most chilling element of this case is probably the fact that Karim tried to
enrol as cabin crew and anyone can imagine how horrific the consequences of this
could have been, had he succeeded," Mr Gibbs said.

Bearded Karim stood emotionless in the dock as the jury concluded he plotted to
blow up an aircraft, shared information of use to al-Awlaki, offered to help
financial or disruptive attacks onBAand gained aUKjob to exploit terrorist
purposes.

The Bangladeshi national, who moved with his wife and son to Newcastle in 2006,
had already admitted being involved in the production of a terrorist group's
video, fundraising and volunteering for terror abroad.

Karim, a privately-educated IT expert from a middle-class family in Dhaka, was
lured into becoming an avid supporter of the extremist organisation Jammat-ul
Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) by his younger brother Tehzeeb.

But their plan to live in an Islamic state was put on hold when Karim moved to
England in December 2006.

Karim, described as "mild-mannered, well-educated and respectful", hid his
hatred for Western ways by joining a gym, playing football and never airing
extreme views.

But at the same time he was using his access to the airline's offices in
Newcastle and at Heathrow to spread confidential information.

After gaining a post-graduate job at BA in 2007, Karim held "John le
Carre"-style secret meetings with fellow Islamic extremists at Heathrow and, in
2009, began communicating with al-Awlaki from his home in Brunton Lane.

He also shared details of his BA contacts and communicated in code with JMB
supporters in Bangladesh.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith set a sentencing date of March 18.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Rajib Karim

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 2, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan police foil terror attack on parliament, arrest nine - sources

LENGTH: 466 words


Text of report by Munawer Azeem headlined "Terrorist gang planning attacks in
capital busted" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 2 March

Islamabad: A joint team of police and intelligence agencies has busted a
terrorist group comprising members of the banned Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP)
and some Afghan nationals, seizing 16kg of explosives, a rocket launcher and
pistols.

According to police sources, the group comprising 13 men from Parachinar, Bajaur
and Afghanistan includes the mastermind and facilitators and efforts were under
way to trace and their accomplices who were in the federal capital or likely to
arrive there.

The group had planned a terrorist attack on the Parliament House during a
session, the sources said.

Intelligence agencies and police got information in mid-February that the
group's members were coming to Islamabad and Rawalpindi and would scatter in
different localities.

In the third week of last month, the law-enforcement agencies intercepted their
phone calls and traced their location at Khana Bridge. A raid was conducted
immediately and nine people were held - Mohammad Zaka Kabli, Gul Shan, Humit
Jan, Ustand Zinda, Ziaullah, Raheem Jan, Murad Afghani, Gul Zammen and Ubaid
from Bajaur and Afghanistan.

During interrogation, they divulged that four more members of the group were due
in the capital.

The agencies and police mounted intelligence in and around the city, resulting
in the arrest in G-9 sector of Arshad, a key member of TTP's Parachinar chapter
and a close aide of the militants' area 'commander'.

The sources aid Arshad was the mastermind of the planned attack and the
explosives, rocket launcher and a pistol had been seized from him.

Later Zia, Gul Nabi and Hashim Khan were arrested. They were facilitators of the
group and responsible for providing vehicles and other supplies.

APP adds: Interior Minister Rehman Malik said on Tuesday [1 March] that the
law-enforcement agencies had arrested a high-profile terrorist who wanted to hit
Islamabad by rockets from the Margalla Hills.

He said the importance of the terrorist could be gauged from the fact that he
was operating in different areas of the country, including the capital.

He said that the arrested terrorist might be described as a handler or operator
because his record testified to his involvement in subversive activities.

The minister said that most members of the gang had been arrested while the
remaining one or two would be apprehended soon.

He said the investigation was likely to reveal more facts about the gang and its
activities. Mr Malik said there had been indications that some external powers
wanted to destabilize the country.

He said security in Islamabad had been tightened after the arrests.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 02 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Terror attack' kills 2

BYLINE: by KEIR MUDIE

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 127 words


A GUNMAN who killed two US Airforce men on a bus in Germany yesterday could have
terrorist links.

Arif Uka, 21, from Kosovo, wounded another two servicemen in the shooting spree.

All four victims were based at RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk.

Uka was arrested after opening fire on a bus at Frankfurt airport yesterday
afternoon.

In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her sympathies were with the
victims and their families, and pledged to do everything in her power to
investigate the crime.

Ms Merkel added: "It is a terrible event."

A member of the US House Homeland Security Committee said the attack looked like
the work of terrorists.

Speaking in Washington DC, Patrick Meehan said he was still being briefed but
the early signs pointed to a terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE: Bus shooting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Frankfurt airport attack: police explore 'terror link'

BYLINE: Helen Piddguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 720 words

ABSTRACT

Kosovan suspected of killing of two US airmen could have had links to Islamist
groups, according to media reports

FULL TEXT

German police are investigating whether the fatal shooting of two US airmen at
Frankfurt airport was a terrorist attack.

Another two American servicemen were wounded when a lone gunman opened fire on a
US military bus parked outside the terminal building on Wednesday.

Investigators are pursuing what German media described as "substantial evidence"
that the 21-year-old Kosovan suspected of carrying out the attack had links with
Islamist groups in Germany. There is concern that more attacks may be in the
works, said Spiegel Online.

FBI investigators were at the scene within hours of the attack and an
investigation by the German authorities is under way.

The suspect, who is believed to have worked at the airport and grown up in
Germany, has been identified by the Kosovan government as Arif Uka, originally
from the northern town of Mitrovica.

Police are investigating reports he shouted "Allahu Akbar " (God is greatest)
before pulling the trigger and are examining his Facebook account, which details
what appear to be Islamist beliefs.

His Facebook wall links to a jihadist fighting song and a comment made on a
friend's posting refers to "these miserable kuffar [infidels]". The last entry
is dated Monday evening.

An American military official told the New York Times the US was not ruling out
terrorism, although it was unclear whether the suspect was acting alone or with
partners. "I don't know if he's tied to a group," the official said. "But there
is enough information at this point to indicate that he identifies with Islamist
terrorist ideology."

In Washington, Barack Obama said he was saddened and outraged by the attack. "We
will spare no effort in learning how this outrageous act took place and in
working with German authorities to ensure that all of the perpetrators are
brought to justice," the president said.

A German investigator told Spiegel Online: "The mere fact that someone with a
gun was in the vicinity of the airport is surely not a coincidence. It could be
that we are dealing with a mentally disturbed lone perpetrator here, but he
could also easily be a member of an organised group."

Police believe the attack was premeditated and the suspect must have known the
bus would be there at that particular time. The vehicle allegedly had US air
force number plates but the airmen, who were on their way to a big US base in
Ramstein, were not wearing uniforms, reported the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung.

American military typically wear civilian clothes when they travel overseas on
commercial flights, and at civilian airports such as the one in Frankfurt, so
they do not draw attention to themselves.

The dead and wounded servicemen have not been named, but the US air force has
confirmed they were all UK-based military policemen en route to Ramstein to be
deployed to Afghanistan.

An air force spokesman at Lakenheath airfield said all four were from the
military base in eastern England. Lakenheath is home to the US's only F-15
fighter wing.

Germany has not had a terrorist attack like those in Madrid and London in the
past decade, but three of the 9/11 attackers lived in Germany, and security
officials acknowledge that it remains a breeding ground for Islamist radicals.

After a series of terror warnings last November, German police increased
security at train stations, airports and prominent public places. The Reichstag
building in Berlin has been cordoned off ever since and visitors have been
banned from making impromptu trips to Norman Foster's glass "cupola" on the
parliament building - previously one of the capital's top tourist attractions.

American troops have been based in Germany since the end of the second world
war. The US has reduced its forces in Germany over the past decade, but it still
has about 50,000 troops there.

It operates several major facilities in the Frankfurt region, including the
Ramstein airbase, which is often used as a logistical hub for operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq.

Frankfurt airport is a hub for American military personnel travelling to or from
bases in Germany and has been a target in the past. A bomb exploded at a crowded
departure lounge in 1985, killing a man and two children and wounding 42 people.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Raid terror of shopkeeper threatened with 2ft sword;
ATTACK: I FEARED FOR MY LIFE, SAYS TRADER AS PAIR TARGET HIS SHOP ; A shopkeeper
said he feared for his life as he came face to face with a masked robber who
attacked him with a sword.

BYLINE: ADRIAN TROUGHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words


Jay Sutaria, who owns the Spar shop in Woodhouse Eaves, said he thought he was
going to be killed when the twoand-a-half foot blade missed his neck by inches.

He was then forced to hand over £200 as another masked raider entered the store
and demanded he give them his takings.

The shop, in Maplewell Road, was targeted as Mr Sutaria was about to close on
Monday.

He said: "I had cashed up the tills and was about to close the front door when a
young man burst in. His face was covered in a tight white mask and he was
holding this long sword in both of his hands.

"I went behind the counter to get away from him and he started trying to hit me
with the sword.

"The swipes were incredibly violent and sliced through some boxes near the till.
One missed my neck by inches and could easily have been fatal.

"I feared for my life. He was using both hands to wield the sword and kept
saying, 'hand over all your money'."

Mr Sutaria, a father of two, handed over the £200 takings as the second robber
walked in.

Mr Sutaria said: "The second robber shouted, 'you have more money. Give us more
money.' When the second robber looked over the counter at the Lottery till, the
other one stopped waving the sword about.

"I saw my chance to escape and jumped over the counter and ran out of the shop
and into the street."

Mr Sutaria said he shouted for help as the second robber came out and ran off up
the street.

Seconds later, the first suspect came out and ran off in the same direction.

Mr Sutaria said: "I gave chase but gave up after a few hundred yards. They were
too young and fast. I got back to my shop and called the police. I did not sleep
well that night. I kept having flashbacks."

He said he been at the shop for 15 years and had never encountered any trouble
before. "It is very quiet here and I never thought this would happen to me in
this shop," he said. "It is very disturbing."

Police have issued an appeal for witnesses.

Detective Constable Kerry Deadman, who is investigating the incident, said:
"This was a frightening incident which understandably has left the victim quite
distressed. "I am sure someone may recognise the clothing or know someone who
has a similar outfit and may match the description of the offender."

Both offenders were white, slim and aged about 16 or 18. The man holding the
weapon is about 5ft 2in and wore a white jacket with black dots and white
jogging bottoms. He had a white, skintight mask over his face which was
described as being see-through and similar to women's tights.

The second man is about 5ft 5in. He was wearing a black jacket, black tracksuit
bottoms and a black mask with eyeholes.

Anyone with information is asked to call police on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'Terror attack' kills 2

BYLINE: KEIR MUDIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 128 words


A GUNMAN who killed two US Airforce men on a bus in Germany yesterday could have
terrorist links.

Arif Uka, 21, from Kosovo, wounded another two servicemen in the shooting spree.

All four victims were based at RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk.

Uka was arrested after opening fire on a bus at Frankfurt airport yesterday
afternoon.

Terrible

In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her sympathies were with the
victims and their families, and pledged to do everything in her power to
investigate the crime.

Ms Merkel added: "It is a terrible event."

A member of the US House Homeland Security Committee said the attack looked like
the work of terrorists.

Speaking in Washington DC, Patrick Meehan said he was still being briefed but
the early signs pointed to a terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR: The scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

US condemns terror attacks in northwest, Pakistan tribal area

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 3 March: The United States embassy in Pakistan condemned Thursday's
[3 March] suicide car bomb, targeting security personnel check point in Hangu.

A spokesperson of US embassy in a statement said, "this vicious attack left at
least 20 people dead and dozens others injured including women and children. We
also deplore the terrorist ambush of six tribal policemen in Khyber tribal
district."

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those touched by these horrible
tragedies."

He said the United States will continue to support Pakistan's efforts to fight
its terrorist enemies and ensure greater peace, security and stability for all
Pakistanis.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1733gmt
03 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror bombs coroner attacks 999 jargon

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 90 words


The coroner in charge of the 7/7 inquests criticised emergency services bosses
for using too much jargon.

Lady Justice Hallett said some terms were so cumbersome and complex that one 999
worker might not know what a counterpart did at an emergency scene.

On the hearing's final day - with a verdict expected at a later date - Lady
Justice Hallett let fly at Gary Reason, assistant commissioner of London Fire
Brigade.

She spoke out as mention was made of "a conference demountable unit from a
management centre" - which is a portable incident room.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Afghan association slams clergy councils for silence over terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 293 words


Text of statement in Dari entitled "Reaction to the stance of the councils of
religious scholars" by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh
on 2 March

The recent deadly incidents in Jalalabad, Konduz, Khost, Kandahar... [ellipsis
as published] show the peak of Taleban violence, not only against the spirit of
the holy religion of Islam but such incidents also indicate the frustration of
some elements who justify the situation [violence].

Religious scholars for sure have crucial responsibility in the current
situation. However, some gatherings under the name of councils of religious
scholars, who make their livelihood somehow in this way, have remained silent
over the causes of insecurity against the values of Islam.

No doubt that silence over the basic interests of the public is not only a sign
of conservatism; it also indicates that they are evading their social
responsibilities. We strongly believe that Islam is a religion of blessing and
wisdom. Actions against the spiritual growth and prosperity are not linked to
the religion, and they lack humane values.

The Taleban are the vanguard of harming Islamic values. Therefore, their efforts
for defaming Islam should face the waves of religious scholars' resistance.
Unfortunately, there has not been any resistance so far. Afghanistan's religious
intellectual society, while condemning the killing of civilians by the coalition
forces, it also view Taleban's terrorist actions in Afghanistan and the region
as contrary to Islam, ethical and human values.

Afghanistan's religious intellectual society strongly criticizes the silence and
the passive stance of the Afghan councils of religious scholars.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, Mazar-e Sharif, Herat and Jalalabad in Dari 2 Mar
11

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Armed robbery pub is torched ; Police raid  £15k cannabis factory ; Staff
attacked in shop terror

BYLINE: Pamela Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


WIGAN Four masked thieves attacked staff to steal cash from a supermarket. The
men kicked one worker in the terrifying raid at Aldi on Princess Road,
Ashton-in-Makerfield. Three of the thugs wore all black and one wore a
light-grey hooded top. Two had white coverings over their faces.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

RIRA: POLICE USING KIDS AS SHIELDS WHEN WE ATTACK;
TERROR GROUP CLAIMS SHOOTING BUT SLAMS PSNI

BYLINE: EAMONN MACDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 230 words


THE Real IRA yesterday admitted a murder bid on police before accusing officers
of using civilians as "shields".

Claiming responsibility for Wednesday night's gun attack on Derry's Glen Road,
the terror group also denied police reports that civilians were in the vicinity
when the shots were fired.

A spokesman claimed its "volunteers" waited until civilians had left the area
before they opened fire.

He said: "We tried to engage them twice but they were surrounded by civilians,
including children, and we were forced to pull back.

"The volunteers then engaged the police officers when they got in the car and
their vehicle was hit by six rounds.

"There were no civilians around the target. The fact that the volunteers pulled
back when they were in a closer position saved the lives of the police
officers."

The dissident group went on to claim that the PSNI use civilians as "shields"
when responding to callouts.

He said: "They surround themselves with civilians, especially young people.

We urge parents to tell children to stay away from them and not allow themselves
to be used as shields."

Police denied there were civilians in the vicinity at the time.

Slamming the terror group, the SDLP's Mayor of Derry Colum Eastwood said: "The
people of this country, North and South, have called and voted unanimously for
peace. These groups are acting in direct contravention to the people."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT Scene of gun attack in Derry this week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday

Blast in Tajik capital not terror attack - pundit

LENGTH: 356 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Tajik Avesta website on 9 March

Dushanbe, 9 March: Experts think that the explosion which occurred in [the Tajik
capital] Dushanbe on 8 March was probably connected with business
redistribution.

[Passage omitted: the explosion in the Tajik capital was categorized as an act
of intimidation]

Against whom or what?

Now investigators have to establish against whom or what this act of
intimidation was committed. The owner of the restaurant, society or the
government? [Passage omitted: repetition]

In an interview to Avesta, an independent expert, Vafo Niyatbekov, noted: "We
used to believe any such incident is a terror attack intended to destabilize the
situation."

[Passage omitted: some articles on the Internet quoted]

"However I believe that it was not a terror attack. First, if it was a terror
attack then the wrong site was chosen. Second, the power of explosion was too
weak," Niyatbekov said.

He said that all the post-Soviet countries faced it [a similar situation] after
the Soviet Union's collapse. "Even now, blasts, shoot-outs and raider takeovers
are happening in some places. Then why cannot it happen here?" the expert said.

Niyatbekov said that compared with the 1990s business activities in Tajikistan
are developing fast.

"Business activities are developing, business competition is growing, and one of
the bad methods that rivals use is `intimidation'," Niyatbekov said.

Another independent expert, Davron Zokirov, did not rule out that the explosion
was aimed at intimidating a contender.

"Land in Dushanbe is expensive, and it gets more expensive as time passes. And
contenders probably choose the most lucrative place where they intend to launch
their business," Zokirov said.

This is the second explosion at entertainment and leisure places during the past
six months.

An explosion occurred at the Dusti disco [?club] in the southern part of
Dushanbe in early September 2010. The explosion was categorized as an act of
"hooliganism". According to information from investigators, four visitors
sustained minor injuries that day.

Source: Avesta website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0844 gmt 9 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

HOLY C** P, THE WHOLE TOWER'S DOWN;
SHOCK NEW IMAGES OF 9/11 TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ALANA FEARON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 316 words


THESE chilling images show the 9/11 terror attacks like you've never seen them
before.

The haunting video footage was filmed from a police helicopter as it hovered
above the bloody carnage that killed 3,000 people in New York almost a decade
ago.

It gives a shocking view of the burning Twin Towers after they were devastated
by two hijacked planes.

But this is the first time anybody outside of official inquiries has seen the
disaster so horrifyingly close up.

The 17-minute film was part of evidence used by the official inquiry into the
World Trade buildings collapse.

But it can now be viewed for the first time along with a series of photographs
taken by NYPD police helicopters as the chaos unfolded 300ft below.

The footage begins with the copter flying past the Twin Towers moments after
both have been struck by the planes as the pilots had been hoping to save
survivors from the rooftops of the burning towers. But they quickly realised
there was no hope of finding anyone alive. The flypast gives a view down one of
the towers - showing the extent of the damage, the flames and thick black smoke
bellowing out.

The police helicopter then lands in a park nearby and carries on filming,
capturing thousands of people running for their lives through the streets.

By the time the helicopter gets back into the air the South Tower has collapsed.

One of the pilots can be heard screaming: "The whole side! It's gone, it's the
whole tower. Holy c***p. "They knocked the whole freaking thing down! The other
one's going to go. Holy c***p. The whole tower's down."

The helicopter later lands and films the North Tower collapsing from its base on
the ground.

An unidentified voice on the police radio can be heard saying: "The North Tower
is down. All personnel be advised the North Tower is down. Request assistance."

The police pilot shouts: "Holy s***. That's it, biggest disaster in the world,
right there."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PANIC South Tower appears to bend before it collapses SHOCKING Photo
taken up in air by NYPD HELPLESS Helicopter lands on roof of nearby building
CARNAGE Close-up picture of Twin Towers attack in 2001

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as masked raiders attack mum in her home;
ROBBERY: VICTIM HIT IN FRONT OF HER CHILDREN BY INTRUDER

BYLINE: CIARAN FAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 452 words


A mother was hit in front of her children when four masked thugs broke into her
home to steal cash and jewellery.

The intruders smashed a rear window and burst into the woman's house, in
Rothley, at 9pm on Monday night.

The men, who were wearing balaclavas, told the 39-year-old woman to hand over
her money. When she told them she did not have any, one of the men hit her and
the gang then searched the Westfield Lane house before escaping with a
substantial amount of cash and jewellery.

The woman was too upset to speak yesterday, but villagers have condemned the
intruders for striking the woman.

A Westfield Lane resident, who asked not to be named, said: "How could they do
this to a woman and her children in their own home? "It all sounds so brazen and
professional, so I can barely believe they haven't done something like this
before or won't do it again."

Parish council chairman Percy Hartshorn said: "I was shocked when I heard about
this. Crime has been very low in Rothley lately. People like this won't be from
around here, I imagine they travel to commit crimes like this.

"They come off the motorways and the Leicester bypass and into Rothley. There
are a lot of large houses in the village and I suspect that is what draws them
here."

The victim dialled 999 and was later taken to hospital, where she immediately
reported the incident to police.

The men ran away towards Swithland Road, but then turned back and ran past the
house. All were of average build and wearing dark clothes.

Detective Constable Kerry Deadman said: "Thankfully the victim was not seriously
injured and has since been discharged from hospital.

The ordeal is not something that she or her children will easily forget, the
events of that night were extremely upsetting for them.

"We have spoken to people in the area but we are still looking for more
information that will lead us to these men.

"I am appealing to anyone who thinks they know who was responsible to call us
immediately. "I would like to reassure members of the public in Rothley that
incidents like this are extremely rare and we are taking it very seriously."

At this stage, police are not linking the men to any other offences. However,
officers yesterday released details of a similar offence, which took place in
nearby Birstall on Tuesday, February 22.

At 12.45pm three men, who were also wearing balaclavas, forced their way into a
house in Station Road and threatened the occupants.

The victims were not injured, but the men took cash and jewellery.

Detective Constable Sukhvinder Obhi said: "This was a frightening incident which
has left the occupants of the house extremely shocked and distressed."

Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 10, 2011 Thursday 2:48 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS TOOK 52 LIVES

BYLINE: Sam Marsden, Katie Hodge and John Fahey, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 3269 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade, from Romford, in
Essex.

Mr Baisden had to grow up quickly. He became the man of the house after his
father Patrick died in 1992 and spent much of his time caring for his mother,
who has multiple sclerosis.

He had hoped to marry his partner Paul Groman before he was killed.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an IT business analyst from Norwich who worked for a
publishing company.

Born in Rome, she was brought up in Italy but a passion for languages and travel
led her to move to England at the age of 19.

She was two months away from marrying her fiance Fiaz Bhatti when she died.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker for photographic chain Jessops from Ipswich,
Suffolk.

The eldest of three children, Mr Ellery was born and raised in Southampton, left
school at 18 and moved in with friends in Ipswich shortly before he died.

Jessops closed all its 280 stores to mark a national two-minute silence a week
after the bombings.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich, Suffolk.

Mr Gray was born in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, and met his wife Louise in 1987
when she started a part-time job at the Ipswich hotel owned by his parents. They
went on to have two children, Adam and Ruby.

He qualified as a chartered accountant specialising in tax and commuted every
day from Ipswich to his job with FW Smith Riches and Company in Pall Mall,
central London.

Anne Moffat, 48, head of marketing and communications for Girlguiding UK, from
Old Harlow, Essex.

Miss Moffat studied art in Hull before moving to London but she returned to the
family home in Old Harlow to look after her ailing mother, who died in 2002.

She was committed to helping others, and a ``Make Poverty History'' booklet was
found in her handbag when her body was recovered.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London, originally from
Little Baddow, Essex.

Miss Stevenson had dreamed of becoming a lawyer as a teenager when at school in
Chelmsford and went on to Sussex University before fulfilling her ambition.

She joined specialist criminal law firm Reynolds Dawson but died just two weeks
after buying a new flat in central London.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts, from
Billericay, Essex.

Miss Taylor, who was born in Sidcup, Kent, and grew up in Billericay, discovered
a passion for drama at a young age and went on to study it at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

Her ambition was to work behind the scenes in the arts and she was given a
permanent job at the Royal Society of Arts three days before her death.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Swanwick,
Derbyshire.

Mr Brewster, who was known as Stan, was a senior project manager for Derbyshire
County Council, where his main interests were the design and structure of
bridges.

A keen cyclist who rode 12 miles to work every day, he also played football and
golf and took part in triathlons to raise money for a local hospital.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

The Liverpool FC fan, who was brought up in Corby, Northamptonshire, was
planning to move to Ireland with his wife Veronica.

Kensington and Chelsea Council, where he worked, placed a bench outside the town
hall in his memory.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Mr Foulkes was educated at Hulme Grammar School, where he became a member of the
team that won the Greater Manchester under-16 squash championship.

He had just begun a new job with The Guardian newspaper and travelled to London
on July 7 for a work meeting.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Born in Bristol, she underwent major surgery to correct a curvature of the spine
while at school before studying music and English at Reading University.

The opera fan planned to do a PhD, marry her soulmate James White and had spoken
of her hopes of becoming a mother.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

The father-of-three grew up in Coulsdon in Surrey, Leeds and Liverpool before
going to university in London, where he met his wife Ros.

He was responsible for the popular mobile phone campaign: ``Who would you like
to have a one to one with?''

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked as a personal assistant
for an advertising firm in Paddington.

Miss Webb, who was brought up in Kingston Vale, Surrey, was a passionate
globetrotter who spent nearly a year travelling through Thailand, Australia and
South America with her boyfriend, Chris Driver, before they cut their trip short
after the 9/11 attacks.

She and Mr Driver planned to spend the rest of their lives together and were
intending to buy a home, marry and have a family.

Twenty-six died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Mr Adams was born in Chester and educated at the King's School in Peterborough,
where he shared bunk beds with Labour MP David Lammy.

He was a committed Christian who served as a deacon at his church for three
years. An orphanage he supported in southern India erected a building in his
memory.

Samantha Badham, 35, an internet designer who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Hereford-born Miss Badham was head girl at the John Masefield High School in
Ledbury, Herefordshire, before studying history at Birmingham University.

She and her long-term partner Lee Harris were killed together after they changed
their normal routine and took the Tube because they were planning to meet
friends after work.

Philip Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Mr Beer started work at a salon after leaving school at 16 and dreamed of
travelling the world as a well-known hairdresser.

His friend and colleague Patrick Barnes, who was travelling with him on the
train targeted by suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, said Mr Beer's last words to
him after the attack were: ``Everything's going to be fine.''

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

The mother-of-two ran her own restaurant in Poland before coming to the UK in
2002.

On the day she was killed, her daughter Natalie had arrived to visit her in
London but they missed each other before the tragedy.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

The passionate Arsenal fan came from a large Irish family and worked for a legal
and stationery firm in Chancery Lane.

At the time of his death he had been saving up to go to Australia, and his
family had expected him to move there permanently because the lifestyle would
have suited his laid-back personality.

Rachelle Chung For Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

The devout Roman Catholic grew up on Mauritius, the eldest of three sisters, and
worked to pay her own way through her accountancy studies.

She came to Britain in 2000 to complete her training and married her husband
Billy in London in May 2004.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Leicester-born Miss Daplyn was a talented artist and musician who graduated from
Oxford University in 2001 with a degree in fine art.

She lived in a variety of places, including Pakistan and Nigeria, before moving
into a flat with her boyfriend, Rob Brennan, several months before her death.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from the Caribbean.

Born in Grenada, Mr Frederick moved to Montserrat as a young man and worked
there as a policeman for nearly 32 years as well as recording a calypso song
called Signs of Christmas that is still popular on the island.

He moved to London after becoming worried about the eruption of Montserrat's
Soufriere Hills volcano in the late 1990s.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Miss Gluck was born in the town of Chorzow in Poland and followed her twin
sister Magda to London in 2002.

At the time of her death she and her sister were planning to return to Poland
the next month to introduce their boyfriends to their family.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Istanbul-born Miss Gunoral, an only child who was brought up by her mother after
her parents divorced when she was five, excelled at school and graduated from
university as an actuary in 2003.

The ambitious businesswoman came to Britain after deciding to take a year's
break from her job with Turkey's largest export company to improve her English.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Mr Harris, who grew up in Hereford, worked for architecture firm 3DReid on
projects including Heathrow Airport's central bus station and the Terminal 1
international departures lounge.

He died alongside his partner Miss Badham, whom he met at Hereford Lads Club
some 14 years before the attacks.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker from Luton.

Mrs Ikeagwu was born in Nigeria and came to Britain in 1976 with her husband and
their three young children.

She was devoted to her family and a generous supporter of children in her home
village in Nigeria, which following her death made her a chief and named its
primary school after her.

Emily Jenkins, 24, a PA for a project management company, who lived in Peckham,
south-east London.

Miss Jenkins, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, travelled widely. She lived
in South America, Spain and Australia before returning to Britain and setting
her heart on becoming a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager from
Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

His work for luxury fashion house Burberry took him all over Europe, including a
lot of time in Italy and the company's base in Haymarket in London.

Mr Johnson met his future wife Catherine at school when they were 15, and his
ambition was to see his family comfortable and his children grow up.

Helen Jones, 28, an accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Miss Jones was born in Edinburgh but grew up in Templand near Lockerbie. She
moved to London in November 2001 and worked for Phoenix Equity Partners.

Accountant colleagues called her ``Sherlock Jones'' because she was so good at
sniffing out mistakes.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two from the village of Newgate Street, near
Cuffley, Hertfordshire, who worked as a legal secretary.

She married husband Harry in 1976 and they set up home in Ilford where they
lived for 24 years before moving to Hertfordshire.

Her eldest son, Daniel, lived in Australia but said the important part of his
day was switching on his computer in the morning to find a message from his
mother waiting for him.

Shelley Mather, 26, a tour guide from New Zealand who had been living in London
for three years.

Miss Mather, the only New Zealander to die in the bombings, left her country in
2002 for a tour of Europe and enjoyed the lifestyle so much she qualified as a
travel guide.

Such was her love of travel that her ambition was to ``circumnavigate the
universe''.

Mike Minh Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

He was born in My Tho, south Vietnam, five months before his father was shot
dead by a drunken soldier.

Mr Matsushita later moved to New York with his mother and grew up in the Bronx
but had only been in London a month after moving to be with his girlfriend Rosie
Cowan.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

With a keen intellect and love of debate, he attended City of London School then
studied politics at the University of Warwick.

He normally would not have been on the Piccadilly line train but was going to a
seminar in Holborn in central London on July 7.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mrs Mozakka was born in Shiraz, Iran, before moving to the capital Tehran, where
she met her husband Naber, with whom she had a son, Saeed, and daughter, Saba.

Her family were at one point wrongly told she had survived the blast for up to
45 minutes, but in fact she died instantly.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Miss Otto was brought up in Romania and moved to London in 1984, following in
the footsteps of her sister Dania.

Arriving in England she worked in a series of jobs, including as a Burberry
sales assistant and in publishing, before qualifying in dentistry.

Atique Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

He arrived in England in 2002 fearing for his life and having fled extremists in
his homeland after both his parents were killed in the Kabul war.

Mr Sharifi dreamed of becoming a doctor, but in his spare time he worked in a
pizza take-away so he could send money back to his sister in Afghanistan.

Ihab Slimane, 24, a waiter who lived in Finsbury Park, north London.

Mr Slimane was born in Lyon, France, but was of Tunisian descent.

The IT engineering graduate had been living in the capital for just three weeks
when he was killed, but had already made new friends and impressed work
colleagues.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

The keen sportsman and Luton Town FC fan was drawn to West Africa, particularly
Ghana and Senegal, because the region was his ancestral home.

To reflect his West African roots he changed his name by deed poll shortly
before he died to Christian Njoya Diawara, meaning a man of determination and
strong spirit.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Ms Suchocka's ambition to work as a translator took her to Italy, France, United
States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany.

She only moved to London three months before the attacks and was considering
whether to move back to Poland after her job finished in October 2005.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

She was born in Nairobi, Kenya, and moved to London to study at Lambeth
Hospital. She married her husband Ashock in 1975 and had one son, Kunaal.

Her colleagues said she had the potential to attain a senior role at Great
Ormond Street.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Mr Fatayi-Williams was educated in Nigeria, France and the UK before joining
multinational engineering firm Amec.

On the morning of July 7 2005, he set off as usual for his office in Old Street,
central London, but his journey was disrupted by the chaos caused by the earlier
bombings on three Tube trains and he helped point other commuters in the right
direction before getting on the number 30 bus.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Born in south London, he moved to Zimbabwe with his family as a small child
before later returning to the UK where he achieved well at school and then in
his career.

We was killed on July 7 after taking a different route to the office from usual
after spending the night with a friend from work.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer from Hornchurch, Essex.

Born in Sudan to English parents, Mr Hart moved to the UK at the age of five. He
was passionate about literature and cinema history, and devoted much time to
campaigning for justice and liberty.

He was heavily involved in the Polish solidarity movement, through which he met
his wife Danuta, with whom he had two children. After his death he was awarded
one of Poland's most prestigious honours for his services to democracy.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, worked for a greetings card
firm.

She and her husband David were described as ``soul mates'' who lived ``totally''
for their sons Liam and Aiden.

A talented artist, Mrs Hartley was in London on the morning of 7/7 to attend an
exhibition in Islington, north London, with a colleague.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

She was born at London's University College Hospital, graduated from University
College London and lost her life in Tavistock Square - all within about one
square mile.

Before her death, she was planning to set up her own greeting card company
called Mimento, a play on her nickname ``Mim''.

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

The East Ender was a Londoner and British but ``above all a true Muslim and
proud to be so'', her relatives said.

Following travel disruption on the morning of July 7, she boarded the number 30
bus with a colleague, Emma Plunkett, who survived the blast.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Born in New Delhi in India, she moved to the UK with her family in 1968.

At the time of her death she had recently started a new job with an IT firm
called TXT4 based in Hoxton Square, east London, and was about to marry her
partner.

Sam Ly, 28, a computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Born in Vietnam, My Ly moved with his family to Melbourne, Australia, as a
refugee when he was a toddler.

He proposed to his girlfriend, Mandy Ha, at the age of five when they were at
primary school together, and they went on to become a couple at university
before moving to London in 2003.

Shyanuja Niroshini Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise,
north London.

Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka, she came to London with her family aged just 19
months and went on to graduate from London's South Bank University with a degree
in business studies and administration.

Ms Parathasangary was especially close to her sister, and the two women were
refurbishing a house with a view to moving in together at the time of her death.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Born in Israel, she moved to London where she enjoyed going out almost every
night to ballet, contemporary dance, theatre, opera and concerts.

She was also an obsessive buyer of shoes, costume jewellery and quirky handbags.
After her death, the sale of her ``vast'' collection raised a huge amount of
money for Wizo, the international Jewish women's organisation.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

Mr Russell grew up in Kent and graduated from Kingston University with a degree
in business studies.

He then followed his passion for travelling with a solo trip to South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand before finding work in the City of London. After
joining JP Morgan Asset Management, he was promoted twice in the 20 months
before his death.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

The son of a GP, Mr Wise grew up in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, and went on to
marry his wife Christine in 1976.

Although the pair separated in 1997, they got back together two years before he
was killed in the Tavistock Square bombing.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Born in Ghana to a poor cocoa farming family, she moved to London in 1983 as the
maid of a Lebanese family. She met her husband, Emmanuel, in 1986 and they had a
son and a daughter.

She was planning to return to her homeland with her husband when she was
murdered.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EVIL NEIGHBOUR ATTACKED ME IN HIS HOME;
Woman's terror after vicious beating that followed loud music complaint

BYLINE: Paul Whitelam

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237 words


A WOMAN has told of her terror after her violent neighbour dragged her into his
house and viciously beat her when she complained about his loud music.

Emily Otter, 27, had gone to the house of neighbour Mark James in Burton Road,
Lincoln, to complain about loud music late at night.

When James answered the door, he dragged her inside and began assaulting her.

A woman who also lived in the house butted Ms Otter and banged her head against
the wall.

Ms Otter, who has since been forced to move house, said: "All the time, they
were saying evil things.

"They were saying they were not normal people.

"I was trying to get out. He took my phone off me. At that point, I thought it
was the end for me. I was really scared."

James, 42, formerly of Burton Road, Lincoln, now lives in Donington, near
Spalding. He was yesterday jailed for 28 months.

He admitted assault occasioning actual bodily harm and affray.

The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, admitted assault and was
jailed for 12 months.

Ms Otter said: "I think justice has been done with these sentences. I'm pleased
they are locked up.

"After this happened, I was always looking over my shoulder. Initially, they
were bailed so they were out and about.

"I felt very nervous. We had to move house the week afterwards.

"He smashed all of the windows at the back of the house. I'm a lot better than I
was, but I'm not as trusting as I was before."

? FULL STORY... SEE PAGE 2

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I FEARED FOR MY LIFE: Emily Otter was dragged into the house of
neighbour Mark James and assaulted after asking him to turn down his music.
Picture: Rich Linley
'NOT NORMAL': Mark James.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2011 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Anti-North Korean group hints at terrorist attack in death of member's mother

LENGTH: 521 words


Text of report in English by South Korean newspaper The Korea Herald website on
11 March

[By Lee Ji-yoon: "Anti-n.K. Group Hints At Terrorist Attack"]

Mother of a group member found dead with no traces of robbery: police

A conservative group that has flown anti-North Korea propaganda leaflets across
the border said Friday that its senior member's mother had been killed a day
earlier, and possibly by terrorists.

The group, Korea Parent Federation, cancelled its leaflet-sending event at
Imjingak scheduled for Saturday, claiming she was likely to have been attacked
by terrorists.

The body of the 75-year-old woman, surnamed Han, was found inside her own shop
in Mia-dong, northern Seoul, by a neighbour on Thursday. Han was lying on her
stomach with a wound in her head and there were bloodstains on the wall. She was
the mother of the group's director general, surnamed Choo.

"We are investigating into the possibility of murder. Given that nothing was
stolen in the shop, it seems less likely to be a robbery case," said an official
at the Seoul Gangbuk Police Station.

The police presumed that a blunt weapon was used to kill the woman. They
collected evidence at the scene for further laboratory investigation.

After Han's death, the Korea Parent Federation and other groups of defectors and
conservative activists suspended their plan to send some 200,000 propaganda
leaflets towards the North from Imjingak, a tourism pavilion on the border
village of Panmunjeom [P'anmunjo'm], on Saturday.

"I have called on the North to free abductees and war prisoners and fought
against pro-North, leftist powers. I always had a lot of enemies in liberal and
religious groups, even in conservative ones," Choo, the son, said, adding that
the police recently advised him to be careful.

"If it was a terrorist attack, it is highly likely that pro-Pyongyang activists
were behind it. After the funeral service, the group will respond to the case."

Other groups, however, cautioned against premature conclusions.

"We are open to the possibility that the death had nothing to do with the North.
We are to handle the case carefully," said a member of a defectors' group.

A member of another conservative group also said, "Until the police
investigation is completed, it is hard to conclude."

Despite North Korea's threat of firing directly at the South's psychological
warfare sites last week, the groups had pledged to continue flying propaganda
leaflets across the border and planned to carry out the event on Saturday when
the wind direction could shift north.

Wary of another military provocation by North Korea, some activists and
residents expressed concerns about such a publicized event at the border
village.

The leaflet-sending event has been led by Fighters for Free North Korea, a
defectors' group and the two conservatives groups Association of the Families of
Victims Kidnapped by North Korea and Korea Parent Federation.

Since Feb. 16, the birthday of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il [Kim Cho'ng-il],
some 20 other groups consisting of North Korean defectors joined the event.

Source: The Korea Herald website, Seoul, in English 11 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

Afghan MPs back Karzai's call to attack main terrorist bases

LENGTH: 609 words


Excerpt from report by Afghan privately-owned Shamshad TV on 13 March

[Presenter] The Afghan president has made proper rhetoric at a gathering in
eastern Konar Province and it is based on the Afghan people's demand. Some MPs
welcomed the president's stance and said that the international forces had not
paid attention to the Afghan people's demand over the past nine years.
Therefore, the anti-terror operation did not produce any outcome. Meanwhile,
they said that though the president's stance would adversely affect existing
relations between Afghanistan and the international community, there was not any
other option on the ground and that the international community should support
the president's stance.

Also, NATO justified the president's concern about civilian casualties and said
it would step up efforts to solve this problem.

[Passage omitted: correspondent reports a NATO bombardment in eastern Konar
Province, Karzai speaks at a gathering]

[Correspondent continued] MP Sayed Wali Wardag welcomed the president's stance
and justified his remarks. He said that these remarks would make the
international community attack the main terrorist bases.

[Sayed Wali Wardag, captioned as MP, talking to camera] I justify the
president's stance in Konar Province. It was an Afghan stance. It was a stance
to end terrorism. Better cooperation should be ensured in the country. I am sure
terrorist bases are located outside Afghanistan and should be destroyed. I think
that the president has taken a proper stance. This stance will help the
international community and foreign forces to rescue Afghanistan from another
crisis. The stance will end the crisis. In my view, the international community
should welcome the stance and fully cooperate and coordinate with the president.

[Correspondent] Wardag believes that the president's stance will not affect the
international contributions to Afghanistan, the ongoing war on terror and
fighting militancy.

Another MP Jamal Naser Osuli thinks that the president's remarks may negatively
affect the political ties, international contributions and the present war.
However, the international community has not paid attention to the Afghan
people's demand and the international forces have always launched arbitrary
operations in the country.

[Jamal Naser Osuli, captioned as MP, talking to camera] Many civilians have been
killed in the international forces' operations in Afghanistan. However, with
regard to the president's demand to end to all military operations in the
country, I think that the international community does not pay attention to the
president's remarks and our demands. It is better if the Afghan forces become
strong enough to protect Afghanistan's borders. However, I don't think the
international community will accept the president's stance.

[Correspondent] The president has visited several provinces for the same reason
and expressed sympathy with the people. He has called on the international
forces to end civilian casualties and told them that terrorist bases are not in
Afghan villages.

However, the international community has not paid serious attention to this
demand yet. Civilian casualties are escalating with every passing day, but it is
the first time the president demanded an end to military operations in
Afghanistan. Currently, some 150,000 NATO forces are stationed in Afghanistan.
Meanwhile, most people are concerned about transferring security responsibility
to the Afghan forces.

[Video shows two MPs talking to camera, archive footage Karzai speaking at a
gathering; foreign forces, NATO commander in Afghanistan]

Source: Shamshad TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1430 gmt 13 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                   2 Edition

Hunt after girl, 16, in sex attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 168 words


A TEENAGER is recovering after a terrifying sex attack.

The 16-year-old was dragged to the ground from behind and attacked as she made
her way home from a night out.

Police said she managed to break free and the man ran off as she contacted
family for help.

The incident happened in Dubbs Road, at the corner of Gareloch Road, Port
Glasgow, around 2am on Sunday.

The teenager was uninjured but has been left shaken.

Detective Sergeant Gerry McWatt, of Greenock CID, said:  Fortunately this young
woman did not require medical treatment, however, she is extremely shaken as a
result of her ordeal and it is imperative that we trace the suspect.

I would ask that anyone who was in the area in the early hours of Sunday and may
have seen a man acting suspiciously to get in touch.

I would appeal to anyone who has any information about this man to contact us as
a matter of urgency.

The suspect is described as 5ft 7in, with dark spiky hair, and chubby face,
wearing a grey hoodie or zipper and grey jogging bottoms.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

Nigeria Joint Military Task Force warns militant group against terror attacks

LENGTH: 872 words


Text of report by Wole Shadare, Willie Etim and Joke Akanmu entitled "JTF
cautions MEND over planned attacks in Abuja, Lagos; RMG, Onaiyekan condemn
threat" published by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 15 March

From the Joint Military Task Force (JTF), otherwise known as Operation Restore
Hope, has come an admonition that those masquerading as members of the Movement
for the Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND) should embrace amnesty and drop their
threat to attack oil installations and gatherings in Abuja and Lagos.

Meanwhile, the Rights Monitoring Group (RMG) has condemned the threat by MEND
which it alleged was instigated by some disgruntled politicians bent on
derailing the ongoing political transition programme in the country. The
Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, John Onaiyekan who also condemned the
threat, urged MEND to be more civilised in its approach.

MEND, in a statement at the weekend threatened to commence simultaneous bomb
attacks on oil installations in the Niger Delta and other strategic locations in
Abuja and Lagos State. The faceless group advised the general public to stay
clear from all political gatherings or meetings of any sort.

Also yesterday, MEND urged Nigerians and all oil companies to disregard all
attempts by the Federal Government and security services to dismiss its latest
threat.

While reacting to the threat, Lt. Col. Timothy Antigha, the Joint Media
Coordinator of the JTF, in a statement in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State said instead of
threatening attacks on oil installations in the Niger Delta and others parts of
the country, those claiming to be MEND should submit themselves to amnesty
processes.

Antigha who noted that the JTF command in Yenagoa is not expected to secure
Abuja and Lagos, said the relevant security agencies in the country are capable
of handling the issue of threat and check any such attack.

His words: "We wish to assure the people of the Niger Delta that we are on top
of the situation and will do anything within the law to protect the people and
foreigners doing business in the region."

He said the repeated threat by MEND is unfortunate and that taking the threat
beyond the Niger Delta makes it irritable. "We are advising them to always take
advantage of the amnesty deal and always present contentious issues they might
have to the Amnesty Committee," he said.

In a statement issued in Lagos by the National Coordinator of RMG, Mr Olufemi
Aduwo, the group described the MEND's threat as act of criminality and terrorism
being planned by discredited people trying to undermine the ongoing electoral
process.

Aduwo warned politicians to desist from instigating people to derail the ongoing
transition programme and kill innocent citizens on voting days, saying any such
politicians found to be culpable in such criminal acts should be held
responsible for any act of lawlessness now and after the elections.

According to him, the aim of those planning to perpetrate violence is to create
a sense of panic before the election with a view to making the elections
inconclusive and cause confusion in the country. "They will fail and our country
will remain strong, we can improve on the way we wage the war on terrorism
through the effort of the people, in cooperation with the security agencies,"
Aduwo said.

The Catholic bishop, Onaiyekan, who spoke yesterday in Abuja on activities
marking the hosting of the remains of the Blessed Iwene Tansi, the first
Nigerian to be declared a saint, urged MEND to adopt proactive measure rather
than violence.

He maintained that destroying lives and property of innocent Nigerians is not a
means to an end of the emancipation being clamoured for in the Niger Delta
region, but rather, MEND should embark more on dialogue with the government and
other political actors.

"We are all aware of the land degradation caused by oil spillage in the region,
so indiscriminate planting of bomb will not solve the problem, rather they
should use civilised approach in resolving the matter," the cleric said.

Noting that the government and the security agents have the obligation of
protecting the lives and property of the citizenry, he however called on them to
braze up to the challenge.

MEND spokesperson, Jomo Gbomo, yesterday warned that in the light of attempts by
the security services to dismiss its threat, the group may resort to bombing
without prior notification and then issue a statement of claim afterwards.

"The government of Goodluck Jonathan has formed a habit of blaming its political
opponents in other bomb attacks so when we start to strike, we will sit back and
watch how the blame game will continue to be played out by the government after
our statements of claims have being issued," Gbomo said.

According to him, MEND has gathered that some agents from the United States are
training some members of the Nigeria Police in bomb detection, detonation and
making improvised bombs.

"We find this very laughable coming from a country that cannot guarantee its own
citizens' security with their overwhelmed prison system coupled with a useless
and corrupt Nigerian police and security force that will end up selling this
knowledge," he said.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 15 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

Iraqi Sunni association condemns attacks on prisoners, "state terrorism"

LENGTH: 560 words


Text of report by Association of Muslim Scholars website on 13 March

["Statement No 768 on incidents at Al-Tasfirat prison in Tikrit and Al-Rusafah"
dated 13 March 2011]

Praise be to God and peace be upon the Prophet of God and his family,
companions, and followers,

Within the framework of the policy of cleansing and annihilation followed
against detainees in government prisons, the forces of the current government on
13 March 2011 fabricated a crisis to storm the Al-Tasfirat prison in the
governorate of Salah-al-Din to put down the inmates who were protesting their
bad conditions and who wanted to follow the example of their brothers who are
demonstrating in the streets of Iraq and its squares demanding change.

Eyewitnesses said that these forces, along with the forces that are in charge of
protecting the facility, fired live bullets on inmates directly and threw tear
gas. The number of detainees in this prison ranges between 900 and 1,200, most
of whom are innocent people who have not been proven guilty. Many of them were
forced under torture to confess to malicious charges. According to eyewitnesses
inside the facility, the number of those killed so far is more than 20 martyrs
and the number of wounded is more than 100.

The detainees appealed for help through some media outlets to save them and end
the siege on them between the fire of the government forces and the smoke that
is rising inside the prison, which caused many of them to suffer smoke
inhalation. At the same time, the detainees of the 10th Al-Tasfirat prison in
Al-Rusafah in Baghdad cried for help in light of similar attempts to attack them
on the same day by groups in civilian uniform who belong to a party known for
its collaboration with the government forces. They reported that clashes
occurred inside the prison, resulting in dead and wounded. The attackers sought,
in a desperate bid, to attribute what happened to sectarian clashes.

What the government forces are carrying out at the detention facilities,
especially what happened today in Tikrit and Al-Rusafah, is a crime of state
terrorism, according to legal norms. We are confident that those who are in
charge in Iraq are not statesmen; they are closer to mafia gangs. The US
occupation is responsible for giving those people such descriptions.

The Association of Muslim Scholars condemns the major crimes taking place at the
hands of the forces of the current government under the eyes and ears of the
occupation forces, which are responsible internationally for conditions in Iraq
as the occupier state. The Association of Muslim Scholars affirms that the world
is seeing the law of the jungle in Iraq and that the international community
will be a partner by remaining silent on these crimes and ignoring condemnation
and accountability. This is in addition to its painful disregard for the cries
of help uttered by the victims from inside prisons and which some media outlets
carried live.

The Association of Muslim Scholars calls on all Iraqis to close ranks, show
greater strength, and rely on themselves to save the country and the people from
this great evil. This is the only chance they have to end injustice and remove
the bats of darkness.

[Signed] The General Secretariat

[Dated] 8 Rabi al-Thani 1432 Hegira

Corresponding to 13 March, 2011

Source: Association of Muslim Scholars website, in Arabic 13 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BA trainee had been planning terror attacks for three years

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 450 words


A BRITISH Airways graduate trainee who planned to smuggle a bomb on to a
transatlantic flight had spent three years looking for ways to carry out a
terrorist attack, a court heard.

Rajib Karim, who worked in the airline's IT department, was jailed for 30 years
yesterday for plotting with al-Qaeda to blow up a passenger plane.

After coming to Britain from Bangladesh, the committed jihadist "worked
incessantly to further terrorist purposes" while keeping his real intentions
"concealed behind a quiet and unobtrusive lifestyle", Woolwich Crown Court
heard.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith told him: "Your motive in finding a job was as much to
carry out attacks as to make a living. None of those you worked with at BA had
even the slightest idea that anything like what you have been convicted of was
going on."

Karim, 31, was privately educated in the English school system in Bangladesh and
studied at the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology. He
was influenced by the radical group Jamaat al-Muslimeen and, after returning to
his homeland joined Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB). In 2006 he returned
to Britain with his wife to get treatment for their baby son on the NHS. But he
was also seeking an opportunity "to achieve martyrdom and carry out jihad", the
judge said. "You remained of that view despite discouragement and lack of
opportunity for three years."

His job as a graduate trainee in the IT department at British Airways
represented an opportunity to carry out attacks, but Karim was "not a natural
leader", the judge said. It was only when he got in touch with Anwar al-Awlaki,
one of the key figures in al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsular, based in Yemen,
that Karim worked "enthusiastically" to attack the airline's infrastructure or
smuggle a bomb on a plane. Encrypted messages stored on Karim's computer were of
the "utmost gravity", said the judge.

On Feb 15 last year, he wrote to Awlaki saying he had applied for cabin crew
training, adding: "I can work with the bros [sic] to find out the possibilities
of shipping a package to a US-bound plane." At the time of his arrest, Karim was
on the verge of gaining a British passport which would have allowed him to
travel abroad, the court heard.

Karim pleaded guilty to producing and distributing a video on behalf of JMB,
raising funds for terrorism and offering himself and encouraging others to
volunteer for terrorist operations abroad. He was found guilty of four charges
of preparing to commit acts of terrorism or assisting others to do so.

The judge praised Det Con Stephen Ball, who helped to decipher Karim's messages.
"The country owes DC Ball and his colleagues an enormous debt of gratitude," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A court heard that Rajib Karim's colleagues at BA 'had not even the
slightest idea' that he was a jihadist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OLYMPIC KILLJOYS;
Food and drink is banned to stop terrorist attacks

BYLINE: NIGEL PAULEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 214 words


SPECTATORS will be banned from taking food and drink into London's 2012 Olympics
as part of an anti-terror campaign.

Mobile phones, brollies, flasks, whistles, Frisbees vuvuzelas and even branded
T-shirts and baseball caps will be outlawed under the harsh "ban on fun".

All bags will be X-rayed in airport-style security machines to prevent any
illegal items being smuggled into the venue.

Organisers insist the severe crackdown is vital to snuff out terrorist threats,
political statements and stop attempts at guerilla marketing.

They fear the 2012 Olympics could prove to be a prime target for attacks.

Details of the banned items have been revealed in the terms and conditions
released with the Olympic tickets that are now on sale.

A spokesman for the London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games claimed
that its concern is for the "safety and security of athletes, spectators and
those working at venues". He added: "Small amounts of food might be allowed in
but large picnic hampers will not. Bringing liquids into venues is still under
discussion."

Free drinking water will be available at venues.

Meanwhile, it has been announced the Olympic Park will get the same postcode as
Walford in TV soap EastEnders.

Stratford, east London, will have an E20 code.

nigel.pauley@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MASCOT: Wenlock

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

BA worker sentenced to 30 years for plotting terror attacks

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd Crime correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 474 words


A disciple of an extremist Islamist cleric, who got a job at British Airways to
plot terrorist attacks, was yesterday jailed for 30 years.

Rajib Karim, 31, a follower of the Yemen-based Anwar al-Awlaki, used his
position as an IT expert with the airline to try to help stage attacks on the
west. Karim was convicted earlier this month at Woolwich crown court of
terrorist offences including plotting to blow up an aircraft.

Awlaki is believed by western intelligence agencies to have been behind several
terrorist plots against the US and Britain and is leader of al-Qaida in the
Arabian Peninsula.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith told Karim that he "worked incessantly to further
terrorist purposes" while leading a quiet and unobtrusive lifestyle.

The judge said: "The offences were of the utmost gravity. You are and were a
committed jihadist who understood his duty to his religion involves fighting and
dying and then being rewarded in the afterlife."

He added: "None of those who worked with you at British Airways had even the
slightest notion of what was going on."

The defence counsel, James Wood, said Karim's actions were "wholly embryonic"
and that there was little certainty about what would have transpired.

The judge said he accepted that Karim was more of "a follower than a leader".
But he went on: "Had the necessary infrastructure been put in place by others,
he would have felt it was his duty to carry out jihad. I have to sentence on the
basis that he meant what he said."

The judge recommended that Karim be automatically deported to his native
Bangladesh after completing his sentence.

Karim was found guilty of preparing for terrorist attacks, including conspiring
with Awlaki, who is on the run. Karim plotted to blow up an aircraft, shared
information of use to Awlaki and offered to help financial or disruptive attacks
on BA.

Police took months to break encrypted messages on his computer. They found he
had been in direct contact with Awlaki, who is accused of having links to the
attempted bombing of a plane over Detroit during Christmas 2009 and an attempt
last year to explode printer cartridge bombs on freight planes heading to the
US.

In September 2007 Karim became a graduate IT trainee with BA. Police described
his computer encryption as the most sophisticated they had seen in a terrorist
case. It took nine months to crack Karim's home computer, with one detective
comparing it to "Russian dolls".

The trial heard Awlaki had emailed Karim asking: "Is it possible to get a
package or person with a package on board a flight heading to the US?"

He also tried to exploit a strike at BA to try to get a posting as cabin crew
and told Awlaki he was attempting to recruit sympathetic airport workers.

Captions:

Rajib Karim, 31, used his position as an IT expert with BA to try to help stage
attacks, including trying to blow up a plane

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Japanese spent nuclear fuel pools said vulnerable to terrorist attack

LENGTH: 379 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

[By Arjun Makhijani]

Tokyo, March 21 Kyodo - Japan has had a sad reminder of radiation damage, in the
midst of the most tragic destruction since World War II caused by the earthquake
and tsunami. It will be complicated to create a path out of nuclear energy, but
should the Japanese people decide on that, some immediate actions would increase
safety, reduce costs, and smooth the way.

Reprocessing creates liquid radioactive materials that pose accident dangers
that could rival or exceed the Fukushima Daiichi radiation releases so far. The
Rokkasho plant is not yet operational. The Monju reactor has a sodium coolant
that can catch fire or explode in a severe accident. Rokkasho and Monju
contribute nothing to electricity production and can be closed to increased
safety. Japan can then phase out nuclear and rebuild a much safer energy sector
based on renewable energy, natural gas, hydropower, efficiency, and smart grids.

The United States has reacted to the crisis complacently so far. The spent fuel
pools at 104 reactors are vulnerable to terrorist attacks and can have severe
accidents. Worst-case damage estimated in 1997 by Brookhaven National Laboratory
would be about $700 billion in today's dollars, and there could be more than
100,000 excess cancer deaths. Yet the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not
ordered dry storage of as much spent fuel as possible to reduce risks.

A pause in new reactor licensing and a review of the relicensing procedures for
existing reactors would be prudent, but is nowhere in sight.

The United States has more renewable energy than the oil in all OPEC countries
put together. It would be terrible if, in the wake of the Fukushima disaster,
the United States failed to move to a fully renewable energy economy. I have
shown in my book "Carbon-Free and Nuclear-Free" that it is technically and
economically feasible. Indeed, the world should revisit "atoms for peace" - that
sought to hide the horror of the bomb behind a peace dove - and create a
renewable path to "energy for peace." (Arjun Makhijani is president of the
Institute for Energy and Environmental Research in Takoma Park, the United
States.)

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0924 gmt 21 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

TRADERS TAUGHT TO SAVE LIVES IN CASE OF TERROR STRIKE AT GAMES MARKET traders
and shopkeepers in Camden Town and King's Cross will be taught life-saving first
aid skills Ñ including how to treat burns and glass and shrapnel injuries Ñ for
use in the event of a terrorist attack during the Olympics.

LENGTH: 190 words


The Metropolitan Police and British Red Cross will run "serious incident"
classes and drills, including how to assist the emergency services, in the
run-up to next summer's Games. Police in Camden and Islington said that the
traders would be the first on the scene after an attack.

About 200 people across the two boroughs will be trained over 12 months. Medical
kits are also likely to be distributed to businesses around King's Cross,
brought to a standstill when the July 7 terror bombings in 2005 killed 52
people.

Sergeant Andrew Wadeson, of Islington police, said: "In these times, where
terrorism is a very real threat to the community, this will equip staff within
local businesses with important skills in the event of a major incident or
attack on the borough. I am pleased that we are the first boroughs in the Met to
offer this service."

Doug Charles-Ridler, landlord of the Hawley Arms pub in Camden, thought the
training "a really good idea".

But Stephen Key, a fruit and vegetable stallholder near Camden Town Tube
station, worried about losing money during training, adding: "We should leave
this stuff to the emergency services."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British radicals could use attacks to recruit terrorists;
Threat at home

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 483 words


MI5 fears that Islamic extremists could use Britain's military involvement in
Libya to recruit potential terrorists.

The Security Service is on heightened alert for the possibility of an outrage,
with radicals in Britain using the mission to claim that Islam is under attack
by "imperialists". There is a suspicion among analysts that al-Qaeda could try
to take advantage of the situation. A number of Libyans, all of them implacably
opposed to Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, have played a senior role in the terrorist
group but sources said the "narrative" of action in Libya could be twisted into
propaganda.

"No one could have guessed what has happened in the last few months in the
Middle East and no one is sure what to expect next," said one source. "There are
huge areas of uncertainty."

Reports in Libya suggested that some Islamists had sided with the rebels. "The
al-Qaeda narrative is that the leadership of countries such as Libya has been
guilty of apostasy and there is every danger that they will see whatever
replaces them, especially if it is democratic, as equally guilty," the source
said.

Britain is also home to a number of al-Qaeda associates who are senior members
of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group. They were placed under control orders
until Colonel Gaddafi forged a peace deal with the group's leaders in Libya, but
that agreement was now in doubt.

The current security level is "severe," meaning an attack is "highly likely,"
and that has not gone up, but Security Service analysts were thought to have
been on alert for increased "chatter" in the extremist community and on websites
and chat rooms.

MI5 was less concerned about the threat of state-sponsored terrorism from Libya.
"Gaddafi would have to go from a standing start within the space of a week and
his attention right now is probably on staying alive," one analyst said.

Nevertheless, the Security Service was taking Colonel Gaddafi's threats to
attack the West seriously and was examining both possible threats from within
the Libyan embassy.

David Cameron told the Commons: "If Gaddafi's attacks on his own people succeed,
Libya will become once again a pariah state festering on Europe's border, a
source of instability, exporting terror beyond her borders.

"We should remember that Gaddafi is a dictator who has a track record of
violence and of support for terrorism against our country - the people of
Lockerbie, for instance, know what this man is capable of."

There were also concerns that al-Qaeda might try to take advantage of any power
vacuum that developed in Libya, especially the North African branch known as
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. Baroness Neville-Jones, the security minister,
warned of the threat posed by terrorists "exploiting loss of control by
governments to their political advantage".

"Gaddafi is a dictator who has a track record of violence and of support for
terrorism against our country

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday

Police foil terrorist attacks in Afghan south

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 23 March

[Presenter] The security commander of Kandahar Province says that seven
terrorists have been detained with a quantity of weapons in this province. The
security commander of Kandahar Province adds that a group of Taleban wanted to
carry out terrorist attacks on the day of Nowruz in Kandahar Province.

[Correspondent] Security forces of this province detained the group of seven
Taleban with weapons when they were planting explosives in the 8th and 10th
districts of Kandahar city. The explosives were defused by foreign and Afghan
forces.

Khan Mohammad, Kandahar Province security commander, says that the aim of this
group was to create unrest on the eve of the new year and their efforts were
foiled.

[Khan Mohammad, captioned as the security commander of Kandahar, in Pashto] They
themselves have admitted that they had carried out terrorist attacks and
explosions. The most of the murders and explosions which had taken place in the
city were carried out by these men and they admitted it. Police and ISAF forces
defused the explosives planted by them in the 8th and 10th districts of Kandahar
city.

[Correspondent] He adds that these people had torched 13 vehicles of border
[police] in the 4th district of this province and had been involved in attacks
and unrest in the province. He reports that security measures have been taken by
police and Afghan National Army forces in this province.

[Video shows detained people, arms, ammunition, a police officer speaking]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 0430 gmt 23 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:56:18

