



Download Request: Select Items: 2501 - 2665
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:52:03
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

Captured Pakistan GHQ attacker reveals terror network information

LENGTH: 428 words


Text of report by Mazhar Tufail headlined "Inside the mind of a coward
terrorist" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 23 October

Islamabad: The terrorists who tried to enter the General Headquarters (GHQ) on
October 10, wanted to shoot or hold hostage Army Chief Gen Ashfaq Parvez Kayani,
an investigator told The News here on Thursday [22 Oct].

"Aqeel Ali alias Dr Usman, who led a team of terrorists to reach the GHQ and was
later captured in injured condition, is an extremely coward person and has
revealed a lot about the terrorist network," said the investigator, requesting
anonymity. "He (Dr Usman) was the man who shot Brigadier Anwar and Lt-Col Wasim
dead when they questioned his real intentions," he revealed.

The investigator revealed Aqeel used to wear a suicide jacket but did not blow
himself up and only instigated his accomplices to do so. He said when terrorists
were holding the Army personnel hostage, Aqeel, who was in the Army kit, tried
to pose as a dispenser and before the commando action even bandaged injured Army
soldiers. He even told the same to the commandos.

"When commandos left the room, he hid behind a cupboard because he had already
thrown his suicide vest away. When another bomber tried to pull the trigger, his
jacket did not explode fully because a volley of bullets fired by a commando
pierced his skull when he was pulling the trigger," the investigator revealed.

The investigator said Aqeel had been accompanying terrorists in various
incidents but used to escape from the scene. He quoted Army officers, who got
freed through the commando action, as saying Aqeel first tried to slip away but
when the men who had been held hostage by him recognized him, he was caught. He
said the terrorists used Google Earth to locate their target and also got help
from insiders.

"However, they miscalculated security arrangements and got killed while one of
them (Aqeel) was captured alive," he revealed. "Aqeel was also among those who
had fired at the plane of former president Gen (retd) Pervez Musharraf when it
took off from Chaklala airport," he disclosed.

The investigator said the terrorists had adopted the strategy of holding people
hostage to get their demands met but after their attacks, including the one at
the GHQ and three in Lahore, were foiled, they had now changed their modus
operandi and were now resorting to target killing. In this regard, he cited the
example of killing of a brigadier and Havildar in Sector G-11 of Islamabad on
Thursday.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 23 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday

Arab, Muslim diplomats condemn "terrorist" attack in southeast Iran

LENGTH: 261 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Doha, 24 October: Diplomats and ambassadors of the Arab and Muslim states in
Qatar on Saturday [24 October] condemned the terrorist attack on south-eastern
Iran which killed 42 innocent people on October 18.

The foreign envoys expressed indignation over the cold-blood terrorist attack
while signing memorial book at Iranian Embassy in Doha. They paid tribute to
victims of the terrorist bombing and sympathized with the bereaved families.

Expressing condolence to the Iranian nation and government, the diplomats and
ambassadors to Doha, they condemned the dirty action of the terrorist agents.

The Pakistan-based terrorist group Jondallah, headed by Abdolmalek Rigi, has
claimed responsibility for the deadly attack in the city of Sarbaz in
Sistan-Baluchestan province last Sunday which killed 42 and wounded 28 others.

The group is responsible for several terrorist operations which have claimed
lives of tens of citizens and security forces. In 2007, Jondallah kidnapped 30
people in Sistan-Baluchestan province.

They were freed during a Pakistani police operation after abductors took them to
the country.

Jondallah claimed responsibility the same year for an attack on an Islamic
Revolution Guards Corps bus in which 11 IRGC personnel were killed.

Iran has demanded the Pakistani government hand over the terrorists or allow
Iranian

security forces to arrest them inside the Pakistani territory.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1530 gmt 24 Oct
09

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday

Terror Attackon Teen Victim

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 121 words


A TERRIFIED teenager was grabbed by the throat and had her handbag stolen as she
walked through a Newcastle park.

The 16-year-old was in Leazes Park when the mugger pounced.

The culprit got away with a small amount of cash.

The girl, from Newcastle, was not injured but was distressed after the robbery
at 9pm last night.

Today police are hunting the robber who has been described as an Asian male,
around 5ft 8in, aged between 18 and 19, with short black hair.

He ran off from the scene with another man towards the Royal Victoria Infirmary.

Police say incidents of this nature are not common but believe there would have
been members of the public in the area at the time. Contact Market Street CID on
03456 043 043 with information.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

New police inquiries into terror attack

BYLINE: David Knight

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Comment; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 271 words


WE CAN sense the despair and anger relatives of the Lockerbie victims must feel
over their search for the truth, but we cannot comprehend the reality of
carrying that burden. Now they have learned that Scottish police are
re-examining certain lines of inquiry, particularly the forensics. Modern
forensic advances will raise expectations of a breakthrough, as we have seen in
other cases.

This brings new hope to relatives who have been deeply sceptical about previous
inquiries. It is generally accepted that the recently released convicted bomber
Megrahi could not have done it alone. Some even have doubts about his
conviction.

It has been mired by conspiracy theories and allegations of cover-ups by
governments and intelligence agencies. After 21 years, some might wonder if it
is now impossible to get at the truth.

Any of us in the same position would do the same: we would fight to the bitter
end to obtain justice for our loved ones who died on the flight.

Recently, relatives have called again for a public inquiry, but successive
political leaders have refused to sanction such a hearing while legal issues or
criminal investigations are continuing.

So, while relatives will welcome new police inquiries, they also know they could
dash their short-term hopes for a public inquiry. The conspiracy theorists might
question whether or not this was an innocent co-incidence.

Looking at the responses of Foreign Secretary David Miliband and the Scottish
administration yesterday, just getting them to agree on whose responsibility a
public inquiry would be looks like yet another hurdle to add to the frustration
felt by families.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2009 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

Article urges setting up welfare fund for Pakistan terror attack victims

LENGTH: 820 words


Text of article by Raoof Hasan headlined "Escaping the mundane" published by
Pakistani newspaper The News website on 24 October

The recent spate of suicide attacks at strategic sites throughout the country on
the General Headquarters (GHQ) in Rawalpindi, office of the Federal
Investigation Agency (FIA) in Lahore, Police Training Centre in Manawan and the
Elite Force Headquarters in Bedian has further raised the ante in the fight
against extremism. It would take time to absorb the shock of these brazen
attacks. It may also be counter-productive to indulge in meaningless semantics
with regard to various ingredients that constitute the overall security paradigm
of institutions of such mammoth importance for the country.

While the dead are gone, they leave behind immense responsibility for the nation
to shoulder in terms of looking after the welfare of their families. As we sat
discussing this aspect among a few friends, it was Usman Aminuddin who came up
with a credible proposal to float a national fund for the welfare of those who
sacrifice their lives in defence of the country. With a wave of support for
those who fought valiantly to blunt the terrorist scourge, he felt sure that
people would respond enthusiastically and donate generously to the cause. He
vowed to be the first one to donate and the rest present at the session exuded
positive vibes to the proposal. I believe it should be immediately implemented
by the prime minister with a personal call to the people to come forward and
make their due contribution to this commendable cause.

Concurrently, he should also put in place a transparent, efficient and effective
system of checks of balances so that funds collected in this manner are neither
pilfered, nor misused and are exclusively invested towards the welfare of the
families that have suffered in the cause of national defence.

Elsewhere, the country is showing increasing signs of coming apart as a
consequence of grave mishandling of its security requirements by the political
leadership, most notably the stalwarts of the presidency. The manner in which
this clique of self-serving individuals has moved at a tangent to the
aspirations of the people is alarming. The flagrant defence that they have
continued to offer for the Kerry-Lugar Bill in spite of palpable evidence to the
contrary is reflective of a mindset that is not susceptible to the interest of
the state. It was possibly an awareness of this mindset that prompted the GHQ to
issue a public statement with regard to its serious reservations about some
conditionalities of the Kerry-Lugar Bill (KLB). The inconclusive debate in the
National Assembly and the abrupt manner in which the session was prorogued
leaves a bad taste in the mouth with regard to the government's clandestine
intentions about the KLB and its negative impact on the fate of the country.

Incidentally, this bill has become a classic case of a nation being forced to
sell its soul for peanuts by a leadership that remains inescapably engrossed in
pursuit of personal survival. The recent judicial injunction with regard to the
annulment of the November 3 proclamation and the attending issues including the
fate of the National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO), and the consequent prospect
of revival of cases that had earlier been written off has sent shock waves
across the expanse of the beneficiaries of the unconstitutional act of a
dictator. Less than six weeks remain to the deadline set by the Supreme Court
and, in the event the incumbent political leadership is unable to carry the NRO
through both Houses of the Parliament, a mammoth crisis of sorts would unfurl
that it may find unable to address. The inherent contradictions that plague the
incumbent leadership are only becoming more obvious because of a total absence
of resolve to settle outstanding matters in consonance with the relevant
provisions of the constitution and the demands of the rule of law. The paucity
of vision is repeatedly demonstrated through a pitiable dearth of viable policy
initiatives that have come out in the last 18 months.

On the contrary, every step that the government has taken has added further
confusion to the game plan. The minister who attempted to move a pre-matured and
servile vote of thanks for the United States for offering us the largesse
through the KLB survives its vehement rejection encompassing all sections of the
society. Such are the people who are leading the coalition on a path of
self-destruction.

A die-hard persistence with the current mindset that is gravely dogged by an
infatuation with personal survival would only lead to further setbacks that the
state may no longer be able to sustain. It is time to escape the petty and rise
to face the challenges that the country confronts from numerous quarters - some
outright adversaries and some guised as erstwhile friends.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 24 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

Saudi Arabia "develops" elements for terror attacks - Iran prayer leader

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report by political desk headlined "Saudi's ties with global arrogance
cause the Wahhabi sect to carry out suicide bombings in the region" published by
Iranian news paper Resalat on 22 October

Zahedan Friday Imam has said: Saudi Arabia has turned into a centre for
developing Wahhabi thoughts that have deep roots in the country and turn them
into elements to carry out terrorist attacks in the region.

According to Fars news agency in Zahedan, yesterday among a group of people and
provincial authorities in Jameh Mosque, Ayatollah Abbasali Soleymani in a
three-day ceremony of martyrdom of the elite Guard Corps said: Iran, with its
Islamic Revolution and Saudi Arabia with its holy places are two countries that
hold the leadership of Islam and are recognized in the Islamic world, but their
views differ from one another.

He said: Fighting against infidels and blasphemy is Iran's first stance and
believing in God is its second important duty, however, Saudi Arabia does not
consider standing against Satan as its top priority, therefore, it acts in
favour of global arrogance and their alliance.

The Zahedan Friday Imam specified that Saudi leaders only manoeuvre around the
God is Great slogan [they use these words as pretext] and the phrase there is no
God except Allah has been put to rest.

He said: Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia has become a base for power of arrogance
systems, but Iran considers standing against Satan as its first priority and
believing in God, as its next duty.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 22 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

India's Mumbai attack case moved to another anti-terror court in Pakistan

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by Mudassir Raja headlined "Mumbai attack case transferred to
another ATC" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 25 October

Rawalpindi, 24 Oct: The case of seven persons arrested in connection with
terrorist attacks in Mumbai was on Saturday transferred to another
anti-terrorism court.

Earlier, ATC-II Judge Baqir Ali Rana in a letter to Lahore High Court chief
justice refused to hear the case citing some unavoidable reasons.

ATC-I Judge Malik Mohammad Akram Awan will start hearing the case on October 26
in central jail Adiala as no defence lawyer appeared before the court on
Saturday as, according to sources, a protest over the indictment of their
clients in their absence.

The defence counsels had moved the LHC against the indictment of the suspects
saying it was done in haste and without following the legal procedure.

They had also shown no-confidence in the trial court judge alleging the
government was trying to influence the court proceedings.

The suspected abettors of Mumbai attacks are Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi resident of
Islamabad, Abdul Wajid resident of Sheikhupura, Mazhar Iqbal resident of
Islamabad, Hammad Amin Saddiq resident of Karachi, Shahid Jameel Riaz resident
of Bhawalpur, Jamil Ahmed, resident of Battagram and Younas Anjum a resident of
Khanewal.

Charges dropped

ATC-I judge dropped terrorism charges against a man arrested by Sabzi Mandi
police in Islamabad with explosive material and was later found involved in
kidnapping and killing of a Polish engineer.

The court dropped the terrorism charges against Attaullah of Kohat and
transferred his case to district and sessions judge, Islamabad.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 24 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

Pakistan editorial concerned over terrorist attack in Iran

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of editorial headlined "Plain words" published by Pakistani newspaper The
News website on 26 October

The Iranian interior minister has demanded Pakistan hand over the chief of
Jondollah, the organization Tehran is convinced was behind the recent suicide
bombing close to its border with Pakistan, which killed 42 people. Iran believes
that the Jondollah leader is in Pakistan and indeed frequently comes and goes
across the border. The Iranian delegation, which met the Pakistan interior
minister, has reportedly offered video evidence to prove its claims. In his
response, Mr Rehman Malik has denied Pakistan's soil is being used by
terrorists. He insists the man the Iranians seek is not in the country and has
also cited the current operation in Waziristan as one reason why the country
cannot go after terrorists elsewhere.

The problem is that the credibility of Pakistan's government is wearing thinner
by the day. The Iranians have suggested the issue could have an adverse impact
on relations between the two countries. This has obvious implications for
Pakistan - one being on the gas pipeline that Tehran and Islamabad have agreed
to lay out. Other areas of cooperation would be affected as well. The time has
come for Pakistan to assess its standing in the region and examine the manner in
which terrorism is affecting this. We cannot afford to be seen as a nation from
where neighbours can be attacked. It is obvious that denials are not being
accepted. Islamabad must review strategy in this respect and accept that it has
more to lose than gain by the perception that it is unable or unwilling to do
more against the terrorists who, it is alleged, have set up base in the country.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan military official survives suspected terror attack in capital

LENGTH: 452 words


Text of report by privately-owned Pakistan television Dawn News on 27 October

A senior military official survived an attack in I-9 Sector [of Islamabad] as
unidentified gunmen opened fire on his vehicle. For more let us cross over to
our correspondent Omardaraz.

[Begin recording] [Anchor Zain Suharwardi] Omar, what is the latest on the
story?

[Omardaraz] Reportedly an army vehicle which was coming out of Sector I-9 and
the moment it came out of the Sector I-9 there were two suspected terrorists on
the motorbike who opened fire at the army vehicle and that army vehicle was
carrying some senior military official whose name has not been reported as yet
but he narrowly escaped life attempt.

And police have actually cordoned off the entire area and they are looking for
two suspected terrorists riding a motorbike which is reportedly 125 motorbike
and police actually got this report that there were some suspected terrorists on
a motorbike roaming around in the area of I-9/1 and they had cordoned off the
area but even then this incident happened and now they are looking for those two
suspected terrorists on the motorbike.

[Suharwardi] Alright, Omar, continuing with this now as you mentioned no details
have come out so far but it is quite absurd that such attacks are taking place
in the capital despite such high security. Have you questioned anyone on that
particular issue?

[Omardaraz] Well, this is the second attack of its nature in Islamabad in a time
period of about five to six days. As you know, earlier, there was an attack on a
brigadier in Sector F-11 where he was killed. But police have been carrying out
different search operation in different areas of the federal capital. They have
been combing certain areas but this particular area which is also the industrial
area of the city had been left probably or they did not conducted any search
operation there in this area. Security was in high alert but even then this
incident happened but no body has yet claimed any responsibility for the lack of
security from the senior police officer as yet.

[Suharwardi] Alright, Omar, thank you very much for that update there. Omardaraz
there, our correspondent tin Islamabad reporting on the latest military vehicle
where the military official was attacked in the I-9 Sector of Islamabad. He has
escaped unhurt. Two apparent gunmen on a motorcycle attacked his vehicle. Police
have cordoned off the area and are in search of that particular motorcycle. This
was the latest as far as the news coming in from Islamabad is concerned and the
official who was attacked, his information has yet not been revealed by the army
sources. [end recording]

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in English 0400gmt 27 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday

Diplomatic missions restrict activities fearing terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 494 words


Text of report by Muhammad Saleh Zafir headlined "Diplomatic staff frightened of
security situation in Islamabad" published by Pakistani newspaper Jang on 23
October

Islamabad: Diplomatic missions and personnel have been suffering from intense
fear caused by the deteriorating security situation in the federal capital, and
they are demanding extra security arrangements and facilities for their staff
from the government. The federal government has provided them with security.
However, they are terrified after the recent events in Islamabad and its
outskirts. The United States and some European countries, including the United
Kingdom, are satisfied over the extra security measures adopted by the
government. However, they have made security arrangements of their own.
Well-placed sources have told The News on Thursday [date not given] that the
social activities of the embassies located in safe houses and the Diplomatic
Enclave are under way on a limited scale. However, such activities for other
missions have been stopped.

Bahraini Ambassador Muhammad Ibrahim Muhammad Abdul Qadir has been recently
appointed ambassador-designate to Pakistan. He had arranged a grand function in
his consulate. However, he deferred the party in the last moments on the advice
of his security personnel. He had planned to host a dinner in the honor of UAE
Ambassador Ali Saif Sultan Al-Awani, Saudi Ambassador Abdul Aziz Saleh Ibrahim
Al-Ghader, and of Kuwait Ambassador Nawaf Abdul Aziz Ali Nazi, today (on Friday)
[as published]. However, he immediately postponed the same for security reasons.
Although invitations had been extended to a large number of diplomats,
aristocracy of twin cities, and high civil and military officials, and these
three diplomats included this function in their current week's schedule.
Similarly, Spanish Ambassador Elissa Works [as published] had made arrangements
for Spain's National Day celebrations in a five-star hotel in Islamabad on 19
October; however, he had to postpone it for security reasons. Dr Mughde Mahmud,
Egyptian ambassador, has also cancelled celebrations over winning [as published]
on 6 October. Apart from these three functions, several other diplomatic
programs have been postponed in the current month for security reasons. In these
conditions, Saudi Ambassador Abdul Aziz Al-Ghader demonstrated courage and
hosted the postponed dinner for the Saudi National Day in the first week of
October, and Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani, Punjab Chief Minister
Shahbaz Sharif, three services chiefs - including Army Chief Gen Ashfaq Pervez
Kayani - Inter-Services Intelligence [ISI] Chief Gen Ahmed Shuja Pasha, and high
officials from all over the country attended the dinner party. Very strict
security arrangements were made for this grand Saudi dinner. Sources further add
that a few embassies are sending the surplus personnel back to their countries.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 0000 GMT 23 Oct 09, pp 5, 8

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday

Uganda appeal;
Kidetok is a village in northern Uganda. Since the time of Idi Amin the area has
suffered terrorist attacks. A church mission has converted a clinic into a full
hospital serving 60,000 patients from the district yearly.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 79 words


Funds are urgently needed for a water supply scheme, for medicines and now a
replacement Land Rover ambulance. Schools, businesses and churches can collect
and send.

Since 1995 I have appealed for donations of used stamps on paper and old
postcards, which are sold to raise money for the Kidetok Fund. How about saving
your Christmas card stamps? Please send your donation to help those less
fortunate to: Uganda,  9 Oxton Close, Rowhedge, Colchester CO5 7JN.

Jeff Taylor

Colchester

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday

Tight security in Pakistan city over reports of possible terror attack

LENGTH: 452 words


Text of report by Dawn staff correspondent headlined "Security tightened over
reports of possible terrorism" published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on
28 October

Hyderabad: Security agencies combed area in and around MQM [Muttahida Qaumi
Movement] zonal office, Qadam Gah-i-Maula Ali, shrine of Sakhi Abdul Wahab Shah
Jilani and Pucca Qilla and subjected people on the streets to body searches
after receiving information that a suicide bomber would hit the area on Tuesday
[27 October].

"Basically, it was communicated to our senior officials that a suicide bomber
will strike the fort area at around 5 p.m. So we had to alert everyone and scan
the whole area," a police official told Dawn on phone.

He said the information was communicated by provincial authorities and said he
was not sure if it came from police's own network or some secret agency.

Qadam Gah Maula Ali, MQM's zonal office and Pucca Qila are located within a
radius of around 500 to 600 metres. Qadam Gah and shrine of Sakhi Abdul Wahab
Shah are visited by hundreds of people belonging to Sunni and Shia communities
from all over the country and subcontinent.

MQM zonal office is at a walking distance from Qadam Gah on Bhai Khan Ji Chari,
which has Holmstead hall on one side and Resham Bazaar on the other.

Police had alerted government hospitals and ambulances remained at standby.

Officials of Bomb Disposal Squad aided by police and Rangers started searches
from Qadam Gah and all roads leading to Qadam Gah were closed with barricades.

Policemen wearing bullet proof vests were deployed at the entry and exit points
of Qadam Gah, subjecting people to body search.

Police officials along with MQM's MPA [Member of Provincial Assembly] Sohail
Yusuf and some members of MQM zonal committee visited the area and met
representatives of bazaars' [marketplaces] unions.

MQM has already adopted several security measures on their own since a sudden
increase in incidents of suicide bombings in the country.

"We were told by high-ups to enhance security measures between 5pm and 6pm over
reports that a suicide bomber has arrived in Hyderabad. We were specifically
told that he (suicide bomber) will hit his target in Pucca Qilla area or its
vicinity," said a police official.

"We didn't get any information. It's basically police authorities who had some
information and our party representatives joined them during the search to give
a sense of security to people," said an MQM activist.

Hyderabad DPO [District Police Officer] Javed Alam Odho said that "though the
information was vague but we did respond to it in an effective manner and it
also provided us an opportunity to check our preparedness".

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 28 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday

Turkey slams 28 Oct terror attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 28 October: Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strongly condemned
Wednesday's terrorist attack in Peshawar that killed at least 90 people.

The ministry said in a statement on Wednesday that Turkey was deeply concerned
over the deadly strike.

The blast at a marketplace killed at least 90 people, most of them women, and
injured more than 200 others, according to Pakistani officials.

"Fight against terrorism can only be successful if international solidarity and
cooperation is reached," the ministry said.

It recalled that Turkey gives full support to Pakistan in its fight against
terrorism, which it said was a common enemy of humanity.

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's recent visit to Pakistan
reaffirmed Turkey's position against terrorism, it added.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1525 gmt 28 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          October 28, 2009, Wednesday

WE'RE GOING TO NEED A BIGGER BOAT;
TERROR ON OZ BEACHES AS 'JAWS' ATTACKS

BYLINE: Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 154 words


THIS is the chilling sight that has convinced Aussie sharkhunters a real-life
Jaws is on the loose in their seas.

A 12ft Great White Shark, almost bitten in half by another Great White, has been
pulled from the water off Queensland.

Experts believe the killer shark must be 20 feet long. And the terrifying attack
has reminded locals of the classic line from Jaws: "We're going to need a bigger
boat."

The dying Great White was found off Dead Man's Beach near Stradbroke Island,
where a shark killed a 21-year-old woman swimmer three years ago.

Swimmers in the area have been ordered to stay out of the water and tourism
chiefs fear holidaymakers will be scared away by the attack.

Local surfer Ashton Smith, 19, said: "Whatever took chunks out of this big shark
must be massive.

"I've heard about the big one that's lurking out there somewhere.

"People are calling it Jaws, for obvious reasons.We're all being very, very
cautious."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTEN IN HALF: The dying shark is recovered off coast of Stradbroke
Island, left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Clinton's first visit to Pakistan met with blast;
n More than 90 killed and 200 wounded in terror bomb attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 537 words


A suspected Taliban car bomb exploded in a Pakistan market yesterday killing
more than 90 people, mostly women and children, as US Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton arrived to pledge support for the campaign against Islamist militants.

More than 200 people were wounded in the blast in the main north-western city of
Peshawar, the deadliest in a series of attacks by suspected this month.

The government blamed militants seeking to avenge an army offensive launched
this month against al Qaida and Taliban in their stronghold close to the Afghan
border.

The bomb destroyed much of the Mina Bazaar in Peshawar's old town, a warren of
narrow alleys clogged with stalls and shops selling dresses, toys and cheap
jewellery that drew many female shoppers and children.

It collapsed buildings, including a mosque, and set scores of shops ablaze. The
wounded sat amid burning debris and parts of bodies as a huge plume of grey
smoke rose above the city.

Mrs Clinton, on her first visit to Pakistan as Secretary of State, was a
threehour drive away in the capital, Islamabad, when the blast took place. She
praised the army's anti-Taliban offensive in South Waziristan and offered
support.

"I want you to know this fight is not Pakistan's alone," she said. "These
extremists are committed to destroying what is dear to us as much as they are
committed to destroying that which is dear to you and to all people. So this is
our struggle as well."

Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said the violence would not
break his government's will to fight back.

"The resolve and determination will not be shaken," Qureshi said. "People are
carrying out such heinous crimes -they want to shake our resolve.

"I want to address them: We will not buckle. We will fight you. We will fight
you because we want peace and stability in Pakistan."

Peshawar, the economic hub of the north-west and the seat of the provincial
government, has long been a target of militants who control large parts of
territory to the north in tribal regions near the Afghanistan border. Extremism
has flourished there since it was used as a staging ground in the 1980s for
USfunded fighters preparing to battle the Soviet-installed regime in
Afghanistan.

Meanwhile in Afghanistan, Taliban disguised as police killed five UN workers
after storming their living quarters in Kabul in an effort to disrupt the
forthcoming presidential election.

Three attackers and three others also died in the two-hour raid which sent
people jumping out of windows or leaping from roof to roof to escape a fire that
engulfed part of the three-storey building.

It was the biggest in a series of attacks intended to undermine next month's
presidential run-off election. At least 25 UN staff were staying at the Kabul
guest house, most of them advisers for the November 7 vote.

A Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility for the assaults, which included
rocket attacks at the presidential palace and the city's main luxury hotel. The
Taliban has warned Afghans to stay away from the polls or risk attacks.

President Hamid Karzai condemned the attack as "an inhuman act" and called on
the army and police to strengthen security around all international
institutions.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A man witnesses the devastation after the explosion in Peshawar,
Pakistan yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: bp


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 29, 2009 Thursday 10:42 AM GMT

UN staff lie low after Kabul terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


UN staff in Afghanistan were ordered to stay at home today, 24 hours after the
Taliban killed five of their colleagues in an attack on a Kabul hotel.

The attack underscored the risks facing UN and Afghan officials in organising a
run-off election following the fraud-marred first-round vote in August, and the
massive challenge for the Nato military force in curbing the Taliban insurgency.

The assault, which left five foreign UN staff and three Afghans dead,
demonstrated the ease with which Taliban militants can penetrate the relative
safety of Kabul.

A Taliban spokesman said the attack was aimed at undermining the November 7
presidential election run-off; the target was a small hotel home to the largest
concentration of UN staff working on the election.

A UN spokesman said at least nine UN staff who survived the two-hour assault on
the Bakhtar guest house will be evacuated to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates
today.

The UN has ordered its employees to remain "on lockdown", with their movements
restricted.

An internal UN memo ordered restrictions on movement for the rest of the week
and said UN departments will be reviewing lists of critical and nonessential
personnel, suggesting some people may be moved out of the country for their own
safety.

But the spokesman said: "Our work continues, and in terms of the elections,
preparations are already well advanced. But the impact this will have needs to
be evaluated over the coming days, and it's too early to make any judgments."

The August 19, 2003, truck bombing of the UN headquarters in Baghdad, which
killed 22 people, prompted the UN to pull out of Iraq for several years.

An umbrella group of more than 100 local and international aid agencies said aid
organisations in Afghanistan "have been subject to increasing numbers of
attacks, threats and intimidation by both insurgent and criminal groups".

The Agency Co-ordinating Body for Afghan Relief said attacks on aid groups are
"higher now than in the last six years".

Yesterday's violence brought to the number of aid workers killed in Afghanistan
this year to at least 23, the group said. Fifteen more have been injured since
the start of the year.

"This situation has forced many aid agencies to restrict the scale and scope of
their development and humanitarian operations," the group said. "Deteriorating
security conditions continue to jeopardise the delivery of essential
humanitarian assistance and threaten the livelihoods of the most vulnerable."

The five UN staff killed were from Ethiopia, Ghana, Liberia, the Philippines and
the United States. The nine wounded suffered mostly cuts and bruises as they
tried to escape.

The election pits President Hamid Karzai against former Foreign Minister
Abdullah Abdullah and the West sees it as crucial to restoring legitimacy to the
corruption-riddled government.

UN-backed auditors threw out nearly a third of Mr Karzai's votes from the August
20 ballot because of fraud, pushing his totals below the 50% threshold needed
for a first-round victory.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday

International: Terror attacks: Pakistan: Market bomb kills at least 100 as
Clinton arrives for visit

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 772 words


The US vowed to stand "shoulder to shoulder" with Pakistan after an explosion in
a crowded Peshawar market yesterday killed at least 100 people, many women and
children, in the country's worst Taliban-engineered atrocity in two years.

The suspected car bomb in Peshawar's old city flattened shops and a mosque,
scattered body parts and filled the streets with blood and burning rubble in a
grim scene that one resident likened to "doomsday".

It came hours after the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, started a
three-day visit aimed at repairing battered relations between the two countries.
"We commit to standing shoulder to shoulder with the Pakistani people," she
said, echoing Tony Blair's rhetoric in the wake of the 11 September 2001
attacks.

The blast ripped through the Meena bazaar, a warren of cosmetics stalls,
jewellery stores and clothes traders frequented by women in a male-dominated
city.

Dozens of people were trapped by collapsed buildings, some sitting dazed under
twisted metal as rescuers scrambled to help. Men in white prayer caps ferried
the dead and injured away on makeshift stretchers. Women scrambled to safely
through smoke-filled alleyways. Businesses across the city closed.

By evening, the provincial government said at least 100 people had been killed
and 147 injured, making it the bloodiest attack since the October 2007 bombing
of a rally held by Benazir Bhutto in Karachi that killed about 140 people.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, as is common when many civilians
die, but most suspicions fell on the Taliban.

For more than three weeks, extremists have rocked Pakistan with an unrelenting
wave of attacks on targets including the army headquarters, an Islamic
university and an air force base, killing about 300 people.

"The war is spreading fear across the country. There is a feeling of uncertainty
and insecurity," said Zaffar Abbas, the Islamabad editor of Dawn newspaper.

The violence is a reaction to a sweeping 11-day old army assault on the
Taliban's mountain stronghold in South Waziristan, at the southern end of the
tribal belt.

A military spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said 35 militants were killed
in heavy fighting over the previous 24 hours. He said troops captured
ammunition, destroyed training camps and were progressing along three lines of
attack into the heart of the militant fortress. The information could not be
confirmed as South Waziristan is effectively cut off from the outside world.

In Islamabad, Clinton met with Pakistani officials amid tight security. "This
fight is not Pakistan's alone. This is our struggle as well," she told a press
conference.

Standing beside her, Pakistan's foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, sounded
a defiant note as he addressed the militants directly. "We will not buckle. We
will fight you," he said. "We will fight you because we want stability and peace
in Pakistan."

Clinton, who turned 62 this week -making her the same age as Pakistan itself -
is on a mission to defuse rampant anti-Americanism that has caused many
Pakistanis to see Washington as part of the problem and not the solution.

She promised to turn a "new page" in the testy relationship by broadening its
focus beyond security issues. For years, Washington has goaded Islamabad into
taking stiffer measures against Taliban and al-Qaida militants inside its
borders.

Clinton pledged $125m (£76m) for a project to reduce Pakistan's chronic energy
shortage on top of a $7.5bn US aid package that the US president, Barack Obama,
recently signed into law. The aid deal was criticised by the Pakistani military,
which said it infringed national sovereignty.

Even though the Taliban pose the most serious threat to Pakistan's stability,
some pundits blamed the "foreign hand" - shorthand for arch-rival India - for
yesterday's attack. "This is a situation that the enemies of Pakistan would also
like to exploit. You cannot exclude the foreign hand," said Masood Sharif
Khattak, a former head of the country's Intelligence Bureau spy agency.

Others saw it differently. "This was clearly designed to let Clinton know that
the Taliban and al-Qaida are not cowed and very much still in this war," said
Adnan Rehmat of Internews, a media development organisation.

The war on the Taliban is also hobbled by public disillusionment with President
Asif Ali Zardari, whose approval ratings have plunged to about 30%. Zardari, who
is often accused of being too pro-American, met with Clinton yesterday but did
not appear with her in public.

35

The number of militants reported killed by Pakistan forces on the 11th day of an
assault on the Taliban in South Waziristan

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday

International: Terror attacks: 'Legitimate' targets

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Kabul

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 215 words


Yesterday's attack means the UN has a big security problem on its hands. Until
now, the best protection offered to the thousands of UN staff in the Afghan
capital has come from the apparent unwillingness of insurgents to target an
organisation that has been active in the country for decades. Most staffers
believed insurgents would leave them alone while the UN was seen as an
independent honest broker, but now the Taliban has made clear that anyone
involved in preparations for next month's presidential election run-off is
considered a legitimate target - putting large numbers of international staff in
Afghanistan in its sights.

The UN insists its staff in Kabul live in approved guesthouses that must have
armed guards, a safe room to retreat into and plastic film on windows to stop
flying glass. But local guards armed with assault rifles are no match for the
sort of determined and coordinated assault seen yesterday.

A bombing at the Canal Hotel in Baghdad in 2003, in which 22 people died, forced
the UN to evacuate its entire mission from Iraq. Such a dramatic move in
Afghanistan seems unlikely, although it is probable that "non-essential" staff
will be told to leave. All UN staff have been put into "lockdown" mode and are
to remain in their guesthouses until further notice.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday

International: Terror attacks: Kabul bombing puts Afghan poll in jeopardy:
Suicide attack on guesthouse used by UN election workers is described by Taliban
as start of campaign to disrupt run-off

BYLINE: Jon Boone, Kabul

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 731 words


The Taliban fired the first shots in their campaign to disrupt the second round
of Afghanistan's presidential election yesterday as suicide bombers stormed a
guesthouse used by UN employees and killed 12 people during a two-hour battle
with security forces.

Six UN workers are believed to have been killed in the early morning attack,
which sent terrified guests running from the Bekhtar guesthouse. Others jumped
from upper floors as flames engulfed the three-storey building.

A Taliban spokesman described the assault as the opening salvo in a campaign to
disrupt the presidential election runoff, due next week. "We have said that we
would attack anyone engaged in the process and today's attack is just a start,"
Zabihullah Mujahid told Reuters.

Seventeen of the guesthouse's 25 residents worked for UNDP Elect - the UN body
supporting Afghan electoral authorities, a UN source said.

Ban Ki-moon, the UN secretary general, will have to decide whether to pull out
UNDP Elect staff across the country after the Taliban showed clear intent to
kill anyone involved in the process.

A second round without the UN on hand to help guide the Independent Election
Commission, a body thought to be highly partisan to Hamid Karzai, the president,
is unlikely to deliver a credible result.

Karzai described yesterday's attack as an "inhuman act" and called for security
to be stepped up around all international institutions in the city. Kai Eide,
the head of the UN mission in Afghanistan, said it was "a very dark day for the
UN in Afghanistan" and vowed that the work of the international body would
continue.

Such a targeted attack on UN staff in Kabul is unprecedented and has long been
the nightmare scenario for the organisation, which has thousands of staff in the
city. A western diplomat said the UN and foreign aid charities would have to
reassess how many staff they would keep in the country. "(The Taliban) have
always kept this card in reserve and the fact that they have now chosen to play
it is very worrying," he said.

To mount the attack, the militants managed to penetrate one of the best-guarded
neighbourhoods in central Kabul. The house next to the guesthouse is owned by
Karzai's father-in-law, and backing on to it is a property owned by Gul Agha
Sherzai, the governor of Nangrahar province, who was targeted in an attempted
assassination on Monday. His brother-in-law was in killed in the shooting when
he went on to his roof to see what was happening.

Yesterday's assault began when three Taliban dressed in the green uniforms of
the Afghan national police were dropped off by a green police pickup truck.
Afghan security officials said the first bomber detonated himself immediately
after getting past the thick metal gate, probably killing or fatally wounding
the three guards.

In the following two hours militants sprayed the building with bullets and
grenades before blowing themselves up. A security official who inspected the
aftermath said what remained of the entrance was covered in blood. "The whole
place is gutted, there is absolutely nothing left except for the brickwork," he
said.

The detonation of the first bomb sent shrapnel flying across the yard, and
through the door and wall of the house and the armoured vehicles parked inside.
It appears that three residents were immediately shot when they came down out of
the house to confront the attackers.

Upstairs in one of the bedrooms, a guest, John Turner, rushed to dress and grab
an AK47 rifle. Turner, a US contractor, said he moved to the laundry room in the
back of the building to help guard a group of foreigners who were hiding there.
"I just guarded the people in the washroom and just returned fire ," he said.
"This is all about the election," he added.

Miles Robertson, an Australian election adviser, and his wife were forced to
flee when fire started to spread. "We realised that there was no way for us to
go out under the stairs or any way for us to come outside," he said. "I opened
the window and stepped out to the landing out front, and had a volley of shots
fired at me."

Loud thumps were later heard from the part of the city where several government
buildings and the presidential palace are located. A rocket landed inside the
grounds of the luxury Serena hotel, favoured by foreigners. No one was hurt.
Another rocket hit the perimeter of the presidential palace.

Najibullah Lafraie, page 34 >=

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday

International: Terror attacks: United States: Karzai's brother in pay of CIA for
eight years, US officials claim

BYLINE: Julian Borger, Diplomatic editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 558 words


Ahmed Wali Karzai, the younger brother of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai,
has been on the CIA's payroll for almost eight years, it was reported yesterday.

The New York Times, quoting unnamed current and former US officials, reported
that the CIA was paying the president's brother, long alleged to be a powerful
drug lord, for "a variety of services".

The report said these included the recruitment of a paramilitary group to do US
bidding in and around Kandahar, where he is the head of the provincial council.

The paramilitaries - known as the Kandahar Strike Force - have been accused of
conducting rogue operations and score-settling. They are based in a Kandahar
compound that Ahmed Wali Karzai also rents to the CIA and US special forces as
an operations base, the report said.

The president's brother was also said to act as a middle man between the CIA and
Taliban loyalists as part of attempts to persuade them to change sides. He has
long been alleged to be involved in the opium trade, and the CIA links are a
cause of divisions in the Obama administration, the New York Times said.

Ahmed Wali Karzai denied being involved in drug trafficking, or being paid by
the CIA, in an interview with the newspaper. "I work with the Americans, the
Canadians, the British, anyone who asks for my help. They (CIA) do their own
recruitment. I have no idea where they get their recruits. It's absolutely
ridiculous," he told the Associated Press.

Associated Press quoted a US congressional official as confirming the New York
Times story, and saying some in Congress had known of the link "for some time".

Speaking to the Council on Foreign Relations on Monday, US senator John Kerry
said he had asked US intelligence and law enforcement for solid evidence against
Ahmed Wali Karzai but had not been given any. "I have requested from our
intelligence sources and law enforcement folks the smoking gun, the evidence,"
he said. "Nobody has given me the sort of hard and fast 'here's what we heard
them say' or 'here's what we've caught him doing' or 'here's what he's involved
in'. So this swirls around."

Kerry said there were "things that Ahmed Wali Karzai has done that haven't been
helpful. There are things he does that are very helpful for us."

He added: "We need to look hard at the balance of how we can best manage
Kandahar and that particular region."

The report of CIA ties comes at a time when the Obama administration is
contemplating increasing US troop numbers in Afghanistan, and 10 days before the
second round of the country's presidential elections, called after evidence
emerged of widespread voter fraud in the first round by Hamid Karzai's brothers.

The president is widely expected to win the second round against a former
foreign minister, Abdullah Abdullah, and it had been hoped that the poll would
help bolster Karzai's flagging legitimacy among Afghans. But reports of ties
between his brother and the CIA are likely to damage his credibility still
further.

The report will also revive debate in the US over the CIA's role. The agency was
criticised for its links with rightwing paramilitaries and drug lords in Latin
America in the 1970s and 80s. But after the 11 September 2001 attacks, critics
said it was so constrained by rules and political correctness it was virtually
unable to gather intelligence in troubled parts of the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

India: Mumbai attack eye-witness identifies terrorist's photo

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 29 Oct: An eye-witness told an anti-terror court here Thursday [28 Oct]
that he had escaped bullets fired by a terrorist in Nariman House, a Jewish
centre, on 26 November last, and also described the gunman who had shot at him.

Deposing before Judge M. L. Tahaliyani, Kazi Zakir Hussain (21), a
housekeeper-cum-cook at Nariman House, said he was scared to see the terrorist
and ran for a cover.

"That day, after cleaning rooms on upper storeys of the building, I came down on
the first floor....I saw a gunman on the second floor...he looked at me and
fired but I ducked and ran into a storeroom along with Sandra, also a cleaner,"
Hussain told Special Public Prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam.

The duo hid themselves in the storeroom the whole night and came out at 11 am
the next day when they saw a two-year-old child weeping.

"Sandra picked up the child and then we went to police station to file a
complaint. My statement was recorded on December 11," Hussain said.

To a query by the prosecutor, the witness said the child was Maushi, son of
Nariman House caretaker Gabriel.

The police case is that the child's parents and some Jewish guests were killed
by terrorists.

Asked to describe the terrorist (identified later as Abu Umar alias Nasir), the
witness said he was 22-23 years and about 5 feet in height. He was wearing blue
jeans.

When he was shown I-Card recovered from the slain terrorist, Hussain said, "he
had shot at me".

Asked how many guests were at Nariman House at the relevant time, the witness
said: "Only four".

Defence lawyer Abbas Kazmi then told him that he hadnot said this in statement
to police, to which he replied, "I had told them, but cannot say why it has not
been recorded".

Another witness, Ravindra Bhede, a crime branch officer, said he had gone to the
office of India TV channel in Delhi on 6 January to collect CDs of telephonic
talks between the journalists and terrorists.

He told the court that mid-way during terror attacks the terrorists had
contacted India TV stating that their objective was to liberate Kashmir and
attack India.

The witness said that he was given four CDs by Vinod Kapri, Managing Editor of
the channel. Of the four, two were original and the rest copies.

The court has summoned Kapri and two anchors of the TV channel as witnesses on 5
November to throw light on their talks with the terrorists.

The prosecution wants to rely on their evidence to prove the charge of "Waging
war against the Nation" framed against Pakistani gunman Ajmal Kasab and two
Indians, Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0341gmt 29 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      October 30, 2009 Friday 07:07 AM GMT

Clinton attacks Pakistan over border terror failure

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton launched a scathing attack on Pakistan for
failing to hunt down al Qaida inside its borders, saying the government knew
where the terror leaders were hiding.

American officials have long said that al Qaida mastermind Osama bin Laden and
senior lieutenants of the network accused over the September 11, 2001 attacks
operate out of the rugged terrain along the border with Afghanistan.

But Mrs Clinton's unusually blunt comments went further in asserting that
Pakistan's government has done too little about it.

"I find it hard to believe that nobody in your government knows where they are
and couldn't get them if they really wanted to," Mrs Clinton told Pakistani
journalists in Lahore.

"Maybe that's the case. Maybe they're not gettable. I don't know."

There was no immediate reaction from Pakistani officials, but the thrust of Mrs
Clinton's comments were startling, coming after months of lavish public comments
from her and other American officials portraying Pakistan's leaders as finally
receptive to the war against militants inside their own country.

As a political spouse, career public official and recently as a diplomat, Mrs
Clinton has long showed a tendency toward bluntness, sometimes followed by a
softening of her comments.

But her remarks about Pakistan's lack of action against al Qaida comes at a
particularly sensitive moment - amid a major Pakistani offensive against
militants and a deadly spate of insurgent violence.

Mrs Clinton was wrapping up her three-day visit to Pakistan today with a series
of interviews with Pakistani journalists - including a session with women
journalists that was to be broadcast live - and talks with leaders of
parliament.

She will then fly to the Persian Gulf city of Abu Dhabi for meetings with
Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas, to be followed over the weekend by a
meeting in Israel with prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

With Pakistan reeling from Wednesday's devastating bombing that killed more than
100 people in Peshawar, Mrs Clinton also engaged in an intense give-and-take
with students at the Government College of Lahore. She insisted that inaction by
the government would have ceded ground to terrorists.

"If you want to see your territory shrink, that's your choice," she said, adding
that she believed it would be a bad choice.

Richard Holbrooke, the special US representative on Afghanistan and Pakistan,
said Mrs Clinton was meeting the army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, for
an update on the offensive that began on October 17 against Taliban forces in a
portion of the tribal areas near the Afghan border.

During her exchange with the Pakistani journalists, one reporter asked Mrs
Clinton why the fight against terrorism seemed to put Pakistan at the centre and
why other countries could not do more.

Mrs Clinton noted that al Qaida had launched attacks on Indonesia, the
Philippines and many other countries over the years.

"So the world has an interest in seeing the capture and killing of the people
who are the masterminds of this terrorist syndicate. As far as we know, they are
in Pakistan," she said.

On Mrs Clinton's flight to Islamabad after the interview, US ambassador Anne
Patterson said Mrs Clinton's remarks reflected what the Obama administration had
told Pakistani officials in private.

"We often say, 'Yes, there needs to be more focus on finding these leaders'," Ms
Patterson said.

"The other thing is, they lost control of much of this territory in recent years
and that's why they're in South Waziristan right now."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

United Nations: Security Council Strongly Condemns Taliban for Terrorist Attack;
Which Took Lives of United Nations Personnel in Kabul; Presidential Statement
Also Commends Resolve to Continue Afghanistan Mission

LENGTH: 460 words


Condemns Taliban for Terrorist Attack; Which Took Lives of United
Nations Personnel in Kabul; Presidential Statement Also Commends
Resolve to Continue Afghanistan Mission

Security Council

6211 th Meeting (PM)

The Security Council this afternoon condemned, in the strongest terms,
the Taliban, which claimed responsibility for the 28 October terrorist
attack that took the lives of several United Nations staff members and
others in Kabul, Afghanistan.

Through a statement read out by Le Luong Minh of Viet Nam, which holds
the Council presidency for October, Council members expressed their
solidarity with United Nations staff on the ground and stressed the
need to ensure their security.

Commending the determination of the United Nations not to be deterred
by the tragic incident and to carry on its mission in Afghanistan, the
Council renewed its commitment to assist the country on its path
towards peace, democracy and reconstruction. It affirmed its view that
the run-off presidential elections should be carried out as scheduled
with the Organization's support.

The meeting began at 4:25 p.m. and adjourned at 4:27 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of the presidential statement contained in document
S/PRST/2009/28 reads as follows:

The Security Council expresses its strong condemnation of the terrorist
attack in Kabul on 28 October 2009 and offers its condolences to the
Secretary-General and the families of the victims.

The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the Taliban, who
claimed responsibility for the attack and continue to attempt to
destabilize the country.

The Security Council expresses its strong support for the
Secretary-General, his Special Representative and all United Nations
personnel in fulfilling their difficult but important tasks, further
expresses solidarity with United Nations staff on the ground, and
commends the determination of the United Nations not to be deterred by
the tragic incident and to carry on its mission in Afghanistan.

The Security Council stresses the need to ensure security of United
Nations staff and its support to this end. The Security Council
expresses support for the measures already taken by the
Secretary-General in this regard and looks forward to the further
detailed proposals by him.

The Security Council expresses its solidarity with the people of
Afghanistan and its support for the upcoming run-off presidential
elections which should be carried out as scheduled with the continued
support of the United Nations.

The Security Council renews its commitment to assisting Afghanistan on
its path towards peace, democracy and reconstruction.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement on Terrorist Attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 423 words


Statement on Terrorist Attack in Kabul

The following Security Council press statement on Afghanistan was read
out today by Council President Le Luong Minh (Viet Nam):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms
the terrorist attack at a guesthouse in Kabul on 28'October, which
caused deaths and injuries among United Nations staff and members of
the Afghan National Security Forces. 'The members of the Security
Council expressed their condolences to the families of the victims, to
the Secretary-General and other United Nations colleagues, and to the
people and the Government of Afghanistan. 'The members of the Council
reiterate their steadfast support for the role of the United Nations in
Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council noted with serious concern that the
Taliban claimed responsibility for the attacks. 'The members of the
Council strongly condemned the attempts in particular by the Taliban to
disrupt the electoral process and destabilize the situation in
Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their serious concern at
the threats posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida, and other extremist groups,
to the local population, national security forces, international
military and international assistance efforts in Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring
perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these
reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice, and urged all States, in
accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant
Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Afghan
authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the need to combat by
all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and all
obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law, threats to international peace
and security caused by terrorist acts.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to
combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with their
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that no terrorist act
can reverse the path towards peace, democracy and reconstruction in
Afghanistan, which is supported by the people and the Government of
Afghanistan and the international community.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday

Indonesian editorial: US responsible for terror attacks in Pakistan, Afghanistan

LENGTH: 484 words


Text of report by Indonesian newspaper Kompas Cyber Media website
(www.kompas.com) on 30 October

[Unattributed editorial: "US Also Responsible"]

US Also Responsible

It is really difficult to understand why bomb attacks continue and tend to
worsen in both Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Reportedly, the bomb attacks in both countries were launched by the Taleban. On
28 October, the Taleban attacked both Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The target of the attack in Pakistan was a market in Peshawar. More than 105
people were killed and 200 others were wounded in the attack. Meanwhile, the
targets of bomb attacks in Afghanistan were the residences of UN personnel in
Kabul, namely two houses and a hotel. The attacks in Kabul killed five UN
officials and wounded others.

The attacks in Kabul were claimed to have been launched by the Taleban,
Afghanistan faction, led by Siraj Haqqani, who operates in North Waziristan,
Pakistan. Although no one has claimed responsibility for the bomb attacks in
Pakistan, it is believed that they were launched by the Taleban, Pakistan
faction, having its headquarters in South Waziristan, led by Hakimullah Mehsud.

The recent situation in Pakistan is worsening. We can say that there is nearly
no day without bomb blasts. During this month alone, at least ten big explosions
have occurred across Pakistan, killing at least 250 people. Interestingly, most
of the targets of the attacks are security apparatuses and government buildings.
The bombs are also blown up in public places.

The purpose of the bomb attacks is clear. They want to show the public that
security is weak. The attacks are also aimed at spreading terror, fear, and a
feeling of insecurity among civilians and, most importantly, the attacks are a
form of resistance against the Pakistani Government, considered to be close to
the United States, and against the presence of US troops in Afghanistan.

The Taleban movement in Pakistan has expanded, following the US military
invasion of the Taleban in 2001. Ever since, there have been waves of refugees
leaving Afghanistan for Pakistan. They have found their way to the nearby
regions in Pakistan, such as Waziristan.

Therefore, it is simply logical that the United States is responsible for the
widespread attacks of the Taleban in Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan. What we
are witnessing now is the presence of thousands of Pakistani soldiers in
Afghanistan. The massive military offensives in Pakistan do not discourage the
Taleban.

Therefore, a more effective way should be found out to prevent bomb attacks in
Afghanistan as well as in Pakistan, especially to prevent further civilian
fatalities in both countries. Let us hope that the presence of US Secretary of
State, Hillary Clinton, in Pakistan will be able to find a new breakthrough to
seek a solution to the problems in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Source: Kompas Cyber Media website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 30 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 31, 2009 Saturday 2:47 PM BST

NATO'S AFGHAN STRATEGY 'MAKES UK TERROR ATTACK LIKELIER'

BYLINE: Daniel Bentley, Press Association Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


Nato's strategy in Afghanistan is increasing the likelihood of terrorist attacks
in Britain, a Tory MP claimed today.

Adam Holloway, a former Grenadier Guard, called for a new focus on
reconciliation with Afghan insurgents rather than more intense fighting.

The troop surge proposed by top US commander General Stanley McChrystal would
only fuel the difficulties facing Nato troops, he warned.

Mr Holloway, a member of the Commons Defence Select Committee, said Nato was
``on the brink of failure'' as Afghan support for its work nose-dived amid
deteriorating conditions.

His comments came in a wide-ranging paper on Afghanistan, published by the
Centre for Policy Studies, which also addressed resources provision for British
troops.

It included the disclosure that Lieutenant Colonel Rupert Thorneloe sent a memo
less than a month before his death complaining about the lack of helicopters.

In the paper, Mr Holloway insisted that Al Qaeda could be prevented from
regaining its foothold in the country without the presence of tens of thousands
of foreign troops.

``Put starkly, our current situation is working against the West's security
interest and is making attacks on the streets of Britain more, not less,
likely,'' he wrote.

He said that the war in Afghanistan was playing into the hands of Al Qaeda
propaganda.

``Al Qaeda needs Nato in Afghanistan, more now when western troops are out of
Iraq,'' he wrote in the Centre for Policy Studies paper.

``Before 2006 who had heard of Musa Qala, Sangin or Kajaki? Today they are
global rallying cries across the websites of global jihad.

``Places like Helmand are, for Al Qaeda, a gigantic film studio.

``For them, Afghanistan is the best place in the world to generate video footage
of 'Mujahadeen' attacks on 'infidel forces', which in turn supports both
fundraising and recruiting.

``Al Qaeda needs pictures of 'heroic martyrdom operations' and mutilated
children.''

He called for more ``tea-drinking'' with tribal elders and attempts at
reconciling insurgents as a way to manage the country better than centralised
government.

``We should focus on what we can actually achieve, not what we think it would be
rather nice to achieve.

``There is always going to be some level of insurgency in Afghanistan, but we
need to manage it, not fuel it.''

Mr Holloway said there was no ``package of perfect solutions'' for Afghanistan,
but added that ``the way forward lies more in working with the grain of Afghan
society than in sending more troops to work against it.

``The last thing we need is more 'big army'.''

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday

Any more terror attack from Pakistan will be "retaliated" - minister

LENGTH: 143 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

Madurai: Home Minister of India P Chidambaram Saturday night warned Pakistan
against meddling with India and said any more attack from the country will be
retaliated "very strongly".

He said he has been warning Pakistan not to play with India and that the Mumbai
attacks should be the "last game".

"We have been gaining strength day by day to counter terrorism from across the
border. I have been warning Pakistan not to play games with us. (I have told
them that) the last game should be Mumbai attacks. Stop it there," he told a
public meeting in this southern city.

"If terrorists and militants from Pakistan try to carry out any attacks in
India, they will not only be defeated but will be retaliated very strongly," he
said in his speech in Tamil.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1842gmt 31 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                November 1, 2009
                                  1st Edition

LOWRI'S HORNET ATTACK TERROR;
Intrepid TV presenter in Amazon nightmare

BYLINE: JAMES McCARTHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 394 words


A SWARM of vicious hornets left a Welsh TV presenter fearing she could die when
they stung her 20 times in a horror attack in the remote Brazilian rainforest.

S4C's Lowri Morgan was taking part in the Jungle Marathon - a gruelling 140-mile
six-day race through some of the toughest conditions on Earth - for a four-part
series about the competition called Ras yn Erbyn Amser (Race Against Time).

After five days running the superfit 35-year-old, who presents motor racing show
Ralio on S4C, was exhausted.

And it was then the giant two inch-long insects - among the world's most
venomous - struck.

Despite 5ft 6in Lowri's attempts to fight off the flying bugs they bombarded her
legs, arms, back and neck.

Lowri, a self-confessed adrenaline junkie, said: "Getting stung by 20 hornets is
the most painful thing that I've ever experienced.

"I had been on my own in the jungle for seven hours when that happened and I was
just two hours from seeing anyone else."

The former pupil of Gowerton's Ysgol Gyfun Gwyr tried to fight off the
aggressive insects but they wouldn't let up.

Instead she sprinted through them as they chased her for 100m.

"I just completely lost it. I was dizzy, I felt sick," said Lowri, adding: "I
got lost a few times."

It was not the time to get disoriented. Lowri, from Swansea, knew allergic
reactions to hornet stings can kill.

She said: "I was very scared but you can't think about it. You can't stop and
sit down on a log. You might get bitten by a snake.

"And you don't want to think the worst." But it was difficult not to.

The presenter recalled: "You hear stories about people getting stung so many
times.

"I've been stung before and never had a reaction but you never know what might
happen when you are being stung so many times.

"It was completely horrific. I screamed so loud for about half an hour.

"I've still got bumps all over me and I have got blisters on my back."

The assault was triggered by a runner in front of her who accidentally stepped
on a nest.

Lowri, who previously became the first Welsh woman to dive to the wreck of the
Titanic, lost an hour of her time because of the stings.

Despite the hornets, the marathon remains one of Lowri's proudest achievements.

"I'm amazed by what I did and what a wonderful experience it was," she said.

Ras yn Erbyn Amser will be screened on S4C in the New Year

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SAFE: Lowri suffered severe stings during her jungle trek, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 2, 2009 Monday

American-Israeli settler questioned over terror attacks

BYLINE: Rory McCarthyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 544 words

ABSTRACT

Yaakov Teitel 'deeply involved in terrorism in all different levels', police
spokesman says

FULL TEXT

Israel's security services were today re-questioning an American-Israeli settler
who they say has confessed to a string of attacks, including killing two
Palestinians and wounding a professor with a pipe bomb, over several years.

Yaakov "Jack" Teitel, an American who emigrated to Israel a decade ago, was
arrested by police and undercover agents for Shin Bet, Israel's domestic
security agency, last month as he handed out leaflets condemning homosexuals.

Police said Teitel has a hardline rightwing ideology based on hatred of
Palestinians, leftwingers, homosexuals and even the Israeli police.

"He is a determined man with very deeply-rooted ideology," Eki Makmel, the
deputy commander of an Israeli police Swat team, was quoted as saying.

Micky Rosenfeld, an Israeli police spokesman, described Teitel as a "Jewish
terrorist", adding: "He was deeply involved in terrorism in all different
levels."

It is rare for the Israeli police to make such an arrest, even though human
rights groups have documented repeated incidents of settler violence against
Palestinians.

Israeli press reports said 37-year-old Teitel had been arrested in 2000 on
suspicion of murder but was later released.

His arrest this time came after a long investigation by Shin Bet, particularly
by its Division for Countering State Subversion, also known as the "Jewish
Division".

Teitel, the son of a dentist in the US Marine Corps, is married with four
children. He was born in Florida and raised on military bases.

He visited Israel many times as a tourist but emigrated and took citizenship in
2000, going to live in Shvut Rachel, an ideological rightwing Jewish settlement
on the occupied West Bank south of the Palestinian city of Nablus.

Police said two Palestinians, a shepherd and a taxi driver were among his
victims, killed more than a decade ago when he was visiting Israel as a tourist.

He also confessed to planting a pipe bomb at the Jerusalem home of Professor
Zeev Sternhell, an eminent academic and long-time critic of Israel's settlements
in the West Bank, last year. Sternhell suffered a leg injury.

Posters then appeared in his neighbourhood offering a reward for anyone who
murdered a member of Peace Now, an Israeli group that has campaigned against the
occupation for many years.

"Had the executor of the terror attack not been caught, I think Israeli society
at the end of things would have paid the price," Sternhell said. "I hope this
system will treat him, this terrorist, as it treats any terrorist, Jewish or
Arab."

Teitel is also accused of sending a gift basket, booby-trapped with a bomb, to a
family of American messianic Jews in Israel in March last year.

The basket exploded, seriously injuring the family's son, Ami Ortiz, who was 15.
He lost two toes and suffered damaged hearing.

The community of messianic Jews believe Jesus is the Messiah, but also consider
themselves Jewish.

Weapons were found at Teitel's home, but police said they believe he acted
alone. Teitel's lawyer, Adi Keidar, said his client "in the best case scenario
is mentally unstable."

He described him as "a man that is motivated by false thoughts, that see himself
as an emissary of the lord".

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                            November 2, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

My first time back on a bus since 7/7 attack;
Terror survivor faces her fears on special trip

BYLINE: KEVIN WIDDOP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 270 words


A WOMAN who survived the 7/7 terror bombings on London transport in 2005 has
been back on a bus for the first time since the attacks.

Lisa French, 32, was on the top deck of the No 30 bus in Tavistock Square when
18-year-old Hasib Hussain's rucksack bomb exploded, killing 13 people on board,
including himself.

Ms French, who was sitting just a few feet away from the bomber when the
explosion tore off the roof, suffered head injuries and lost two front teeth and
the hearing in one ear. She was deeply psychologically scarred, tormented by
nightmares and, until now, unable to get on another bus.

However, transport chiefs who wanted to help her overcome her fear stepped in
and took her on a special tour of the London Marathon route lasting three hours.

She said: "Until now buses have looked like coffins on wheels to me. Getting
back on the bus it all came flooding back. I was very tense. I was clinging to
the railing for three hours - but I did it. Hopefully, the more buses I get on,
the safer I'll feel."

Ms French also had an emotional reunion with the hero who led her to safety in
the wake of the blast.

She said she would never forget the image of Chris Symonds, the British
Transport Police worker and Falklands veteran, who guided her from the wreckage.

She had tried to track down Mr Symonds several times but they were finally
reunited when a BBC documentary found him. "Meeting him again was amazing," said
Ms French. "I've told him he dare not walk out of my life ever again."

A total of 52 commuters died and more than 770 were injured when the bus and
three Tube trains were targeted by four suicide bombers.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror: Lisa was on the top deck of the No 30 bus when the bomb
exploded
Facing fear: Lisa French went on a three-hour tour

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 3, 2009 Tuesday

German minister sees continued high risk of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 179 words


Excerpt from report by right-of-centre German newspaper Die Welt on 3 November

[Report by dpa: "Interior Minister De Maiziere Warns of Terror Attacks"]

Berlin - In the view of new Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere, the danger of
terror attacks in Germany remains unchangingly high. "The Bundestag election has
not changed the security situation," De Maiziere said. There were attempts via
the Internet to influence the citizens with threats, which have, however,
obviously not had any effect. At the same time, De Maiziere announced that the
Islam Conference, which was initiated in 2006, will be continued next year.

Meanwhile, the interior ministers of the CDU [Christian Democratic Union] have
agreed to quickly implement the security plans set down in the coalition treaty.
This was announced by their spokesman, Hesse Interior Minister Volker Bouffier
(CDU). He affirmed that the coalition agreement does not contain any major cuts
for security. Essential elements, such as online searches, remain in existence.
[passage omitted]

Source: Die Welt, Berlin, in German 3 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 3, 2009 Tuesday 4:51 PM BST

KEY EVENTS SURROUNDING ATTACK ON TERROR SUSPECT

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 313 words


A member of the Metropolitan Police's territorial support group was cleared
today of racially abusing and assaulting a teenager.

But it can be revealed for the first time that Pc Mark Jones was involved in a
bigoted attack on terror suspect Babar Ahmad.

The family of Ahmad, who remains in prison awaiting extradition to the United
States, want police officers to face prosecution over the assault.

Here is a timeline of the case:

December 2, 2003 - Ahmad is arrested at his home in Tooting, south London, on
suspicion of terrorism-related offences. He is beaten, choked and suffers
religious verbal abuse. He is released six days later.

August 6, 2004 - Ahmad is re-arrested after authorities in the United States
issue an extradition warrant. It is claimed he solicited fundraising for rebels
in Chechnya and Afghanistan on the internet during the 1990s.

May 17, 2005 - District Judge Timothy Workman rules that Ahmad should be
extradited. Six months later, the Home Secretary agrees.

February 20, 2006 - Ahmad launches a High Court appeal against the Home
Secretary's decision to extradite him.

July 11, 2006 - The High Court case begins and legal wrangling continues in the
House of Lords. The case is eventually heard by the European Court of Human
Rights.

June 1, 2007 - Two teenagers claim they are racially abused and assaulted by
five territorial support group officers, including Mr Jones, in Paddington, west
London.

March 18, 2009 - Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson admits
Ahmad was attacked and abused as £60,000 compensation and damages is agreed.

March 26, 2009 - A review of the handling of the Ahmad case, to be overseen by
retired senior judge Sir Geoffrey Grigson, is announced.

November 3, 2009 - Mr Jones is cleared of aggravated assault, assault and
misfeasance in a public office. The other officers were cleared of misfeasance
in a public office.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 3, 2009 Tuesday 4:21 PM BST

CLEARED OFFICER 'ATTACKED TERROR SUSPECT'

BYLINE: Katie Hodge, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


One of the police officers cleared of racially abusing two teenagers was
involved in a bigoted attack on a terrorist suspect, it can be revealed today.

Pc Mark Jones was one of four officers sent to arrest 34-year-old British Muslim
Babar Ahmad at his home in Tooting, south London, in December 2003.

The team of Territorial Support Group (TSG) officers were responsible for
beating, choking and humiliating Ahmad as he was arrested.

Earlier this year the Metropolitan Police paid Ahmad £60,000 compensation after
he brought a civil case against the force at the High Court.

Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson was forced to admit the abuse took place as
horrific details of the case were revealed.

Retired senior judge Sir Geoffrey Grigson has since been appointed to oversee an
independent inquiry into the handling of the case.

Ahmad remains in Long Lartin prison awaiting extradition to the United States as
the European Court considers whether the move would breach his human rights.

Before his arrest, officers were told he was connected to al Qaida and was the
head of a south London terrorist group.

Court documents revealed that during the raid officers beat and grabbed him
around the neck, pulled his testicles and mocked his Islamic faith.

At one point they forced him into a praying position as an officer shouted:
``Where is your God now? Pray to him.''

Ahmad was also beaten as he lay on the floor of the police van as it took him to
Charing Cross police station.

His legal team said the details of his attack were ``strikingly similar'' to
allegations made by teenagers in the June 2007 incident in west London.

The civil action was mired in controversy after several officers refused to give
evidence into the allegations of abuse.

They did not face a misconduct investigation as the force found ``no recordable
conduct matter'' against them.

Sacks of key documents, including the complaint histories of the officers, went
missing from the Met's internal post system.

An order was put in place during the High Court proceedings prohibiting the true
identity of Jones from being revealed. At the time, he was referred to as
``Officer X''.

It emerged Jones was the subject of 31 public complaints between July 1993 and
May 2007. More than half (16) of the complaints were made by black or Asian men.

The jury in Jones's criminal trial was not informed of Mr Ahmad's allegations,
nor the outcome of the civil litigation.

Ahmad's solicitor, Fiona Murphy, of Bhatt Murphy, said: ``Pc Mark Jones was the
principal perpetrator in the assault upon Babar Ahmad on December 2 2003.''

She said Sir Paul made an ``unprecedented admission'' in Mr Ahmad's civil
litigation.

She said: ``He admitted that his officers had subjected Mr Ahmad to a violent,
sustained and unprovoked assault and that he had twice been placed in a
life-threatening neck hold in the back of a TSG carrier.''

Ms Murphy said: ``It is a shocking indictment of the Metropolitan Police, the
IPCC and the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) that no officer has faced
prosecution in respect of the assault upon Babar Ahmad.''

His relatives said they are ``disappointed'' with the verdict at the end of the
criminal trial.

In a statement, they said: ``Over six months have now elapsed since the
Commissioner for the Metropolitan Police admitted that his officers carried out
a brutal and horrific physical and sexual assault on Babar in December 2003.

``Despite these admissions, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) have failed to
prosecute a single officer for any offence.

``Almost six years have now passed since Babar was terrorised by these officers
and we continue to call for justice to be served.''

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday

TV show on Iranian allegations of Pakistan's involvement in terror attacks

LENGTH: 1974 words


Karachi Dawn News television in English at 1500 gmt on 22 October relays live
regularly scheduled "Newseye" program. Dawn News anchorperson Nadia Zafar
reviews, discusses, and analyzes major developments of the day with government
ministers, officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts in this
program.

Program: "Newseye"

Reception: Good/Fair

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Zafar opens the program by saying that militants ambushed and killed a senior
Pakistan Army officer in Islamabad; Brigadier Moinuddin Ahmad was on his way to
GHQ (General Head Quarters) when his jeep was intercepted by two militants who
opened fire, instantly killing the officer and another army personnel. Brigadier
Ahmad was the Deputy Force Commander of the United Nations' mission in the Sudan
and was in Pakistan on vacation, and was scheduled to return to Sudan on Friday
[23 Oct]. Police launched a search operation and a crackdown on seminaries,
taking the head of a seminary into custody.

Zafar speaks with Maj Gen (Retd) Jamshed Ayaz and discusses how militants have
now shifted their targets to army officers. Ayaz says the terrorists want to
make headlines and have no specific targets; they can kill anybody from security
personnel to army officers, and even women at the Islamic University. Army
officers who move about in uniform should take special precautions and avoid
taking the same route to their offices at fixed times. Ayaz says Brigadier Ahmad
did not have adequate security and was traveling with only one guard, who was
sitting in the back of his vehicle. The attackers probably did not even know the
officer was a brigadier, and probably just noticed a military jeep taking the
same route to the GHQ and picked it as a target. Adding to the tragedy is the
fact that not only were the terrorists able to take down the officer and another
military person, they were also able to escape.

Segment II

Zafar says Iran is accusing Pakistan of being involved in the attack on Iran's
Revolutionary Guards in Sistan-Baluchestan, orchestrated by the Jondollah group.
Dawn News correspondent Yasir Ahmad says in his report that Jondollah claimed
responsibility for the attack in Sistan-Baluchestan, which killed 42 people
including 15 elite Revolution Guards. Attacking the Revolution Guards is not
easy or to be taken lightly; The elite force was organized after the Iranian
revolution and has its own arm of ground troops, intelligence and special
forces. An attack on the Revolution Guards is a serious threat against the
Iranian government. The commander of the Guards' ground forces says that he is
seeking permission to hunt down these terrorists in Pakistan. Terrorists claim
that the attack was carried out to avenge the wounds of the Baluch people.
Initially, Iran pointed a finger at the UK and US, but the Iranian police chief
said that these terrorists were based in Pakistan and that Islamabad should
accept responsibility. Pakistani Information Minister Rehman Malik has said that
Jondollah chief Abdolmalek Rigi is in Afghanistan, and that he has handed over
information about Rigi's exact location to the Iranian authorities. Iran's
Intelligence Minister Hayder Moslehi, however, is accusing Pakistan's
intelligence services of links with Jondollah. Meanwhile, Iranian Member of
Parliament Ali Aqazadeh says if Pakistan does not take steps to extradite armed
rebels to Iran, then Iran will have to act against the rebels and the government
supporting them, based upon international norms.

Zafar speaks with Mashallah Shakeri, Iranian ambassador to Pakistan, and
discusses why Pakistani intelligence is thought to be supporting Jondollah, when
in the past Pakistan has been capturing these militants and handing them over to
Iran. Shakeri says our security forces are very vigilant in this matter and if
this terrorist attack germinated from within Iran or any other neighboring
country, our intelligence would have picked up the trace, but unfortunately the
hub of terrorism is not within Iran. We do not know the exact location of
Jondollah chief Rigi in Pakistan, but there have been published interviews with
Rigi in Pakistani local magazines and newspapers, suggesting his presence in
Pakistan.

Shakeri says both the intelligence agencies of Pakistan and Iran are in close
contact with each other and share information in this regard. The evidence
collected by Iran so far strongly suggests that this group of terrorists has
found a safe haven on this side of the region. These terrorists want to create
trouble in the whole region, and for them it does not matter whether it is
Pakistan, Iran or Afghanistan. We are encouraged by the sympathy and sentiments
shown by the president, prime minister and top officials of Pakistan. If we
honestly share information with each other and accept the realities provided by
each side, then we can reach a mutual conclusion that will be beneficial for
both Pakistan and Iran. An Iranian delegation is scheduled to arrive in Pakistan
on 23 October to further the proposal of a joint cooperation in apprehending
Jondollah militants. The delegation comprises the Minister of Interior, the
Deputy in Security Affairs, people from the Ministry of Intelligence of Iran and
some Parliamentarians. Shakeri says we do not doubt the sincerity and
determination of our "Pakistani brothers" and this delegation will bring with it
the concerns of the Iranian establishment and the people of Iran, and at the
same time take with them the view of the Pakistani side to their respective
authorities.

Zafar speaks with Mansur Akbar Kundi, professor of political science at the
University of Baluchistan, and discusses the reported presence of Jondollah in
Pakistan. Kundi says Jondollah is a militant organization, which is religious as
well as nationalist in nature, founded in 2003. It is believed that Nek Muhammad
Wazir, a Taleban commander from Waziristan who was later killed in 2004, was
behind the establishment of Jondollah. The group calls for the promotion of
Baluch rights in Iran. This particular demarcation of the Pakistan-Iran border
took place in 1874 as a result of the "divide-and-rule policy" of the British;
Kalat confederacy, which encompassed a huge area, was divided and a lot of the
area was given to Iran, which is now included in Sistan-Baluchestan and Kerman.
The residents of the border are dependant on interaction with each other for
their livelihood. People from both sides of the border sell their goods to the
other side and earn a living. Smuggling, apart from drugs and arms dealing, is
also a large part of this economic activity, but ever since this border became
fenced and highly patrolled, the people of these areas have started facing
socio-cultural and economic problems. There was a "Rahdari" (pass) system in
play at this border, whereby the District Administrator issued passes for 15
days, but after the alienation of the border, this system has not been in use
for many months now.

Kundi says Rigi has openly said in an interview to the BBC that he does not
belong to a militant organization and is only fighting for the rights of the
Baluch people. Pakistan and Iran share a 909 km long border, starting from
Karachi to Rabat, where all the three borders of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan
meet. Kundi further says that conspiracy theory points out a number of factors
at play here; There is an Indian Consulate in Zahedan and four other consulates
in Heart, Kandahar, Jalalabad and Mizar Sharif, whereas Pakistan has a consulate
in Zahedan because it links our border. However, the presence of an Indian
consulate in Zahedan does not make much apparent sense.

Talking about the IPI (Iran-Pakistan-India) gas pipeline, Kundi says relations
between India and Iran are not as cordial as they once were. The civil nuclear
deal between India and United States in 2008 clearly terms India as a de facto
NPT (Non Proliferation Treaty) power and a strategic partner of the US, while
the deal has a clause which talks about India's relationship with Iran.

Segment III

Zafar says the US Congress has approved the Kerry-Lugar Bill that seeks tough
new restrictions on military aid to Pakistan. The bill comes up for final
approval later this week, and if approved, sets restrictions on how Pakistan
will be reimbursed for logistical and military support. The fresh restrictions
require the Pentagon to certify that Islamabad is waging a concerted fight
against Al-Qa'idah and the Taleban before it can receive the money. The bill
also directs the Pentagon to track how Pakistan uses the military hardware that
it receives, in order to prohibit the re-transfer of defense articles and
services without America's consent. Democrat Senator Robert Menendez and
Republican Senator Bob Corker jointly drafted the new restriction, which urges
the White House to have lawmakers send progress reports every 180 days. The
Menendez-Corker legislation would mandate a certification by the US Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Defense that money given to Pakistan is both in the
national security interest of the US and will not affect the balance of power in
the region.

Zafar speaks with Tariq Fatemi, former ambassador to the US, and discusses the
new restrictions regarding the military aid. Fatemi says this kind of
restriction was also in earlier assistance packages to Pakistan from United
States. But the former President Musharraf has to be thanked to a very large
extent for this particular restriction associated with the bill, as Musharraf
claimed in one of his interviews in the US that he had succeeded in diverting
some of the US-given equipment away from the war on terror and on to our eastern
frontiers. Nevertheless, it is "gratuitous" and "demeaning" to ask for a
certification of Pakistan's commitment to the war on terror and the resolve of
the Pakistan Army in combating terrorism, especially since Pakistan is engaged
in a massive operation in Waziristan against extremist militants.

Fatemi adds there is no question of a shift in balance of power, as everybody
knows that India is numerically superior to us, and is far ahead with better and
more sophisticated weapons. Earlier, only the Soviet Union supplied resources to
India, but now France, the UK and the US are also open to our neighbor, while
the Indian defense planners have already announced that they are looking at a
package of around 100bn dollars for sophisticated weapons and system purchases.
On the other hand, Pakistan has never wanted to maintain "numerical parity" with
India; instead it has always tried to "obtain a strategic balance with India".

There are three major lobbying companies that are registered to assist Pakistan,
and under the head of the guidance mission and his diplomatic staff the lobbying
companies are supposed to promote Pakistan's interests. For this bill to come to
the surface at this late stage is "disappointing" to say the least. The Pakistan
Army is aware that such conditions have existed in the past, but this time the
"timing is unfortunate", the language is "totally unnecessary" and "provocative"
and the reference to maintaining a balance with India is certainly "uncalled
for". If anything, the Pakistanis desperately need an infusion of new arms just
to maintain the strategic parity with India.

Commenting on the meeting between PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz group)
Chief Nawaz Sharif and Senator Kerry on his visit to Pakistan, Fatemi says
Sharif is very keen on establishing close and cooperative terms with the United
States, except that he feels this relationship must have an element of "mutual
trust". Sharif urged the Senator and his colleagues to take a fresh look at the
entire process and try to think of some measure that can allay the doubts and
grievances generated in Pakistan over this bill.

Source: Dawn, Karachi, in English 22 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday

Uganda: US warns citizens on likely terror attack in east Africa

LENGTH: 250 words


Text of report by Raymond Baguma entitled "US warns citizens on east Africa
terror" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 7 November

The US mission has sent an alert to American citizens living in Uganda, about a
likely terror attack in east Africa.

In a 2 November statement, the embassy said: "Although the US mission is not
aware of specific threat information related to Uganda or US interests in
Uganda, US citizens are reminded that a number of Al-Qa'idah and Al-Shabab
operatives and other extremists are believed to be operating in and around east
Africa."

Al-Shabab, a Somalia-based terror group, recently vowed to attack Uganda and
Burundi after the armies of the two states clashed with them through their
peacekeeping contingents.

The embassy warned American citizens planning to travel to east Africa and those
already in the region to review their plans and to remain vigilant about
personal security.

"Terrorists do not distinguish between official and civilian targets. Increased
security at official US facilities has led terrorists to seek "softer" targets
such as hotels, beach resorts, landmarks and other prominent public places.
Americans in remote areas or border regions where military or police presence is
limited or non-existent could also become targets."

However, army spokesperson Lt-Col Felix Kulayigye said the terror threat did not
warrant cancellation of travel to Uganda.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 7 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

Uganda deploys anti-terror police over attack threat from Somalia's Al-Shabab

LENGTH: 686 words


Text of report by Milton Olupot entitled ''Security hunts for Somali
terrorists'' published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 9 November

Security is investigating reports that a number of Al-Shabab Islamists have
entered the country following their threat to strike Kampala and Bujumbura last
month. Sources within the Joint Anti-Terrorism squad yesterday told The New
Vision that three British nationals of Somali descent are suspected to have
sneaked into the country in the last three weeks.

"Security is on the alert and provided with details and photographs of the
suspects. We are not leaving anything to chance," the source said yesterday.

The three have been identified as Walla Eldin Abdel Rahman, born on 1 September
1982 and bearing passport number 039813894 and Sakrih Mohammed, born on 6
February 1985 and bearing passport number 012726483. The third suspect is known
under four different names: Halway Carpet, Omar Yusuf, Bilal Berjawi and Bilal
el Berjaour. He was born on 28 September 1984 and bears three passports with the
numbers 301307039, 303941310 and 800307153. Following the threats, a
country-wide registration of all Somalis is being carried out to identify new
arrivals.

In Kampala, the security has been beefed up in Kisenyi, a suburb with a big
Somali population. A joint force of the Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence
(CMI), the Internal Security Organization (ISO) and the anti-terrorism squad is
deployed there. President Yoweri Museveni recently warned the Islamist rebels
that they would pay a heavy price if they attacked Kampala.

"Those groups, I would advise them to concentrate on solving their own problems.
If they decide to attack us, they will pay heavily because we know how to deal
with those who attack us," he told journalists at the end of the African Union
summit in Kampala last month. He warned that Ugandan peacekeepers in Somalia
would pursue and attack the rebels if they acted on their threat. The militants
issued the threats after they claimed that rocket attacks by the AU peacekeepers
killed at least 30 people in Mogadishu.

"We shall make their people cry. We'll attack Bujumbura and Kampala. We will
move our fighting to those two cities and we shall destroy them," Shaykh Ali
Mohamed Husein, a senior Al-Shabab commander, told reporters in Mogadishu.

The AU force fired back after insurgents shelled the airport as President Sharif
Ahmad was boarding a plane to fly to Kampala for the summit. Burundi and Uganda
have about 4,300 peacekeepers in the Somali capital as part of the African
Union's force, dubbed Amisom.

Gen David Tinyefuza, the coordinator of the intelligence agencies, said on 23
October that the threat was real but not new.

"Uganda has been a target for international terrorists since 1990. Our
involvement in Somalia has only raised the stakes and intensified the threat,"
he said. Asked which measures Uganda was taking against the threats, Tinyefuza
said they were three-fold and involved coordination with western allies.

"We are strengthening the capability of our security systems. We are also
intensifying coordination and information exchange with our international
allies." Uganda's legal system, he said, was supportive of such measures since
the Anti-Terrorism Act was passed.

"The third component is mobilization. Public awareness is the most effective
weapon against terrorism." He noted that the police had been issuing terror
alerts to the public, transport organizations as well as hotels.

Amisom comes under near-daily attacks from roadside bombs and rebel artillery.
Two months ago, Al-Shabab hit its main headquarters with a twin suicide car
bombing that killed 17 peacekeepers, including the Burundian deputy force
commander. Several African nations had committed to send troops to reinforce
Amisom, which needs 8,000 soldiers to secure Mogadishu alone, but have so far
failed.

In meetings in Kampala, Somali elders, some of whom fought in the Somali wars,
vowed to cooperate with Uganda's security services to defeat the militants.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 9 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

OETERROR ATTACK ON NEW YORK SUBWAY' FOILED BY YARD TIP-OFF

LENGTH: 324 words


JUSTIN DAVENPORT CRIME CORRESPONDENT

A SUSPECTED al Qaeda plot to bomb the New York subway was foiled by British
anti-terror investigators, it was claimed today.

Scotland Yard alerted the FBI to the alleged plot after intercepting an email.

The intelligence led to an operation which resulted in the arrest of an Afghan
airport shuttle bus driver.

Najibullah Zazi, 24, is accused of conspiring to use home-made bombs for a large
scale terror attack, possibly on a city transit system.

He is said to have received weapons and explosives training at a terror camp in
Pakistan.

Zazi was arrested after testing bomb-making materials similar to those used in
the 7/7 blasts in London.

He was held in Denver, where he lived, a week after returning under FBI
surveillance from a trip to New York.

A source told the Sun today that Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command had
been monitoring a suspicious email address uncovered in an abortive operation
against an alleged British terror cell in April.

Eleven Pakistani suspects were arrested but later released without charge.

The arrests took place earlier than planned after Met anti-terror chief Bob
Quick was pictured with a secret document on show while going to brief the PM.

Mr Quick was forced to resign over the mistake.

Officers kept watch on the email address, which was reactivated in September.

After the British tip-off, US authorities began a surveillance operation and
allegedly found bomb-making instructions on Zazi's laptop.

A phone contained video of New York's Grand Central Station.

A British security source told The Sun: "This was excellent work and highlights
the fact that we produce good information."

Furious US intelligence bosses had threatened to stop sharing secrets with
Britain after the Lockerbie bomber, Abdelbaset Ali al-Megrahi, was freed in
August.

But the source said: "They were delighted with the intelligence we gave them and
believe it helped prevent a catastrophic attack."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

Family's terror at arson attack;
A mother says she is horrified 'sick' arsonists risked her children's lives by
stuffing burning paper through her front door.

BYLINE: DIANA PRINCE Herald Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 488 words


The woman described the horrifying moment she was woken by her dog to find her
family home filling with thick smoke.

Firefighters said she, her partner and their daughters, aged three years and 19
months, were lucky to be alive.

Police are investigating and appealing for information following the suspected
arson attack in Whitleigh - which came after Bodmin woman Mary Fox died in a
Bonfire Night house fire believed to have been started by a firework pushed
through her letterbox.

The 22-year-old Plymouth mum, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisals,
said: "In all reality, these people have tried killing me, my partner and my
kids. You've got to be some sort of monster to do something like that.

"It's playing with people's lives. It's cold-hearted and sick. We could have
died.

"Whoever did it had no thought that children could be in the house - no thought
for my baby and toddler.

"It's horrifying."

The fire started at around 3.30am on Saturday on Hereford Road, she said, and
she and her partner were woken by the narking of their collie dog.

"We were all in bed and I heard him but thought nothing of it because he often
barks at people walking past," she said.

"About five or 10 minutes later I smelled smoke. My partner got up, I got up and
when I opened the door to the hallway there was just thick white smoke. My eyes
stung and you couldn't breath.

"I panicked, but it was adrenaline. The girls were the first thing on my mind."

Her partner extinguished the fire, confined to a wad of newspaper or a magazine
by the front door, with water from the bathroom. They made sure their children
were safe, opened the windows to clear the smoke from the hallway and called the
fire service.

The woman said: "It took a little while for what had happened to sink in.

"Luckily enough we don't have a carpet in the hallway or anything; it could have
been so much worse, or if the door had caught fire.

"I keep thinking, 'What if?' What if we didn't wake up? What if the girls went
out to it first? What if the dog hadn't woken up?"

She said the family now wanted to move from their council home to another area
of the city, scared it would happen again.

Leading Firefighter Stuart Higgins, who was in charge of the Crownhill fire crew
called to the incident, said: "They were extremely lucky; it could have been
like Bodmin. The lit paper didn't cause much damage because there was no carpet
or curtains inside.

"The family didn't have a  smoke alarm and were only woken by their dog.

"That should not be relied upon to save anyone. Smoke doesn't wake you up."

The family were not injured and the house not severely damaged.

A police spokesman said they were investigating the incident as a suspected
arson and appealed for information.

Anyone who can help police with their enquiries is asked to call them on 08452
777444, quoting   crime reference EL/09/5307. Alternatively, witnesses can
call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800  555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2009 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

MPs quiz 'Yates of the Yard' on Home Office and terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 94 words


Home Affairs Committee session on 'The Home Office's Response to Terrorist
Attacks' with: Met Police Assistant Commissioner John Yates at 10:30hrs GMT,
former Director of Public Prosecutions Sir Ken Macdonald QC at 11:15hrs GMT,
followed by current DPP Keir Starmer QC at 11:40hrs GMT.
 Second session on 'the Cocaine Trade' held immediately afterwards with
Colombian Ambassador Mauricio Rodriguez-Munera at 12:00hrs GMT

Start date: 2009-11-10

End date: 2009-11-10

Event URL:
http://www.parliament.uk/parliamentary_committees/home_affairs_committee.cfm

Event time: 10:30 GMT

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan Islamist leader says US, Indian agencies involved in terror attacks

LENGTH: 370 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Blackwater and RAW are involved in firing
on army officers: Liaqat Baloch" published by Pakistan newspaper Nawa-i-Waqt on
8 November

Islamabad -- Liaqat Baloch, secretary general of the Jamaat-e-Islami [JI]
Pakistan, said that Blackwater [private US security firm] and Research and
Analysis Wing [RAW, Indian intelligence agency] were involved in successive
incidents of firing on the Army officers in Islamabad.

Issued from Mansura [JI headquarters in Lahore], Liaqat Baloch said in his
statement that all three incidents of firing on Army officers were perpetrated
by bikers. However, it is the inefficiency of the law-enforcing and intelligence
agencies that they could not track them down until now. The escape of the
terrorists from the foolproof security arrangements and police pickets in
Islamabad is engendering several questions. He said that illegal weapons and
vehicles with fake registration plates were seized from the foreigners in
Islamabad. However, their release by the Interior Ministry has further
encouraged [words omitted] Blackwater. He further said that it had been exposed
that India was involved in subversion and terror incidents in! Pakistan. The
civilian and military officials have also made this fact clear. The Pakistani
Government should have raised voice against Indian intervention on diplomatic
level after the recovery of Indian-made weapons, important maps, and explosive
from South Waziristan. However, the government has adopted a cowardly approach,
which is to be condemned, Baloch added.

Liaqat Baloch further said that after claiming the provision of bread, clothes,
and houses, the federal and provincial governments had given the public nothing
except broken promises, price hike, and unemployment. The people used to wander
in search of flour earlier and now they are wandering in search of sugar. He
said that the US intervention has penetrated in the country so much so that now
the US Government has issued dictation to increase the prices of the electricity
further by 18 percent. However, the silence of the government is tantamount to
the degradation of the country, he added.

Source: Nanw-i-Waqt, Rawalpindi, in Urdu, 8 Nov 09 pp 10, 12

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday

How would we react to a terror attack?

BYLINE: ADRIAN JENKINS

LENGTH: 389 words


HOW would you respond to a terrorist bomb attack on a supermarket? police have
asked people at a counterextremism conference in Burton. Officers posed the
question when they hosted their first terrorist atrocity role-play exercise at
Burton Albions Pirelli Stadium, in Princess Way.The event, organised by
Staffordshire Polices Southern Community Resilience Team, was followed by an
assessment of the risk of such an attack on Burton.Detective Sergeant Darren
Oakey, a member of the team, said the possibility was fairly low but there was a
need for constant vigilance.He spoke two days after the conference, called All
Communities Together Now, or ACT Now, saw 50 invited guests assume the roles of
police officers in a fictitious attack on an imaginary town called
Sandford.Police said the exercise was designed to increase understanding between
officers and Muslim communities by examining how counter-terrorism operations
worked.Participants, who included young people and Muslim holy men, or imams,
were told that their decisions would shape the way the incident was investigated
and how community members, the media and the families of those who may be
arrested were dealt with.The exercise was followed by speeches from Detective
Inspector John Denley, a senior investigating officer in the West Midlands
Counter Terrorism Unit; Ed Husain, the co-director and cofounder of the Quilliam
Foundation, the UKs first counter-terrorism think-tank; and Matthew Collins, a
former National Front member turned anti-fascist campaigner.Det Sgt Oakey said:
It was a really positive event.Should the really unfortunate situation occur
when weve got an incident which happens in Staffordshire, weve got an awareness
from the community of how the police would deal with that and also what the
community would want from the police.

He said police planned to hold similar events in schools from January, and to
hold other conferences in youth centres, colleges and universities.He said:
Staffordshire is a very safe community and weve got very good contact with them
and they tell us about their concerns quite regularly and are very good at
coming forward.I would say our risk level is fairly low but we always have to be
vigilant.Theres always that situation where you have the unknown and we have to
look out for it and maintain that dialogue.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2009 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              North Wales Edition

II tthhoouugghhtt hhee wwaass ddeeaadd;
WIFE'S TERROR AFTER YOBS ATTACK HUBBY

BYLINE: DAVID POWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 412 words


A TERRIFIED wife yesterday described how she feared her husband was dead after a
gang of youths beat him up in the street outside his shop.

Shopkeeper Mark Poynton was in the flat above his electrical store in Bridge
Street, Abergele, when he heard a loud noise outside in the early hours of
Sunday.

He saw a group of youths outside and went to check whether his window had been
damaged.

But as he opened his front door he was set upon and suffered head injuries. He
eventually collapsed in the road.

His wife, who was behind him, raised the alarm and paramedics rushed him to
Ysbyty Glan Clwyd, Bodelwyddan. He is now recovering at home.

His wife Chanthi said yesterday: "I thought he was dead. He is a lovely,
hardworking man. He doesn't deserve this."

Dad of four Mark, 42, and his wife, 32, had been in their second floor flat
above the Coastal Services electrical shop at 2.10am on Sunday.

She said: "We had been watching a DVD. We heard a loud noise, some lads were
kicking his shop door. Mark opened the window to look down.

"He said to them, 'What are you doing down there? Why did you kick the window
(in the door)?' "Wearing only trousers, he went down to check if his shop window
was OK.

"I was holding our 10-month-old daughter Olivia. I put her down and ran down
with him, without any shoes on. I couldn't leave him to go alone.

"I was standing behind him inside the shop when he opened the front door.

"A leg came through and I saw hands and feet attacking him in the doorway."

Mrs Poynton added: "He tried to get away from the doorway.

"One lad hit him with a bottle and he collapsed on Bridge Street. I thought he
was dead."

Mrs Poynton panicked and ran to a neighbour's house to ask him to ring 999.

Paramedics arrived and took Mr Poynton to hospital. He was discharged at 8pm
that day.

Mr Poynton was yesterday recovering at home. He and Chanthi have four children,
daughter Luket, 13, Dami, eight, Malisha, three, and baby daughter Olivia.

Mayor of Abergele Cllr Delyth MacRae condemned the attack. She said: "I find it
abhorrent that such a violent act has taken place in Abergele. I hope the police
make every effort to find the perpetrators."

. Police are hunting a group of men in their late teens or early 20s. Officers
appealed for witnesses or anyone who knows anything about the assault to call
0845 607 1001 (Welsh language line), 0845 607 1002 (English) or CrimeStoppers
anonymously on 0800 555111.

davidpowell@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Attack victim Mark Poynton with his wife Chanthi, and her children
daughter Luket, 13, (left) and son Dami, eight. Chanthi is holding the daughter
they have together, Malisha, three. They also have a ten month old daughter
Olivia (not pictured) The Bridge Street, Abergele store

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

African terror attacks, Nato and realities of Afghanistan;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 425 words


Sir, In your leading article ("The tests for Afghanistan", Nov 7), you list
terrorist activities against various countries but omitted to include the
attacks on the US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam in 1998. The world
seems to think that the big terrorist attacks began on 9/11. They did not: they
began on August 7, 1998, in Nairobi.

These were among the first big attacks that preceded the 9/11 attack and brought
Osama Bin Laden to American attention for the first time. In the Nairobi
bombing, hundreds of people were killed and thousands injured - yet time and
time again, it is left off the list of terrorist atrocities by the media and now
the Prime Minister's speech.

I was born in Kenya and grew up there, and along with other Kenyans feel
aggrieved that the attacks in these two East African countries are forgotten.
The message it gives is that terrorist attacks on African countries are just not
important enough to warrant mention - no matter that many more people were
killed and injured than in the London attacks in 2005. elizabeth frost
Twickenham, Middx Sir, We need to remind ourselves that the war in Afghanistan
is a Nato operation. Those who urge withdrawal need to be clear whether they
intend that Nato as an alliance should pull out, or only the British Forces -
leaving our Nato allies to fill the gap that, in practice, would mean the United
States. The problem is the lack of commitment of leading members of the
alliance.

Those who were in positions of responsibility when the size, shape and equipment
of our present-day Armed Forces were decided would do better to direct their
venom towards nations not pulling their weight than at their own Government
which has, for laudable reasons, overcommitted these forces.

david mccann Bracknell, Berkshire Sir, Christopher Daniel (letter, Nov 6) quotes
his great-grandfather to the effect that foreigners and their benefits are not
welcome and people must be left to their own customs. As a soldier in the Indian
Army who served on the North-West frontier, it was instilled into me and my
fellows that such customs must be observed. Corruption, for instance, is seen as
a normal practice in all transactions, personal or commercial. Without it many
would starve.

"Green shoots", it would seem, are now appearing as Gordon Brown has dropped
corruption from the list of conditions that President Karzai must accept in
order to secure our support. Unless the Afghans have changed since my day, these
conditions are unattainable. colonel charles wilson Framingham Earl, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday

Pakistan TV show discusses impacts of terror attacks on Peshawar

LENGTH: 1064 words


Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1400 GMT on 9 November relays daily current affairs
program, "Crisis Cell," hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues; Words within double slant lines are
English.

Reception: Good

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program by saying: Militants and extremists defeated in Swat
and Waziristan are wreaking vengeance on the innocent Pakistani people. Peshawar
and Islamabad are two frequently targeted big cities of the country.

Bucha plays a video showing Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh saying that
they are worried about the rise of terrorism in the neighborhood particularly by
what is going on in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Bucha establishes a video link with Liaqat Khan, Peshawar CCPO [Capital City
Police Officer], and asks: What has been the effect of the deteriorating
situation of //security// on the morale of police. What is lacking to
//counter// and to //curtail// this //wave of terrorism// in the city? Khan
says: Our security arrangements can be seen in our efforts to diffuse bombs, and
the terrorists caught //red handed with explosives// etc. The //backlash// is
not so much in Peshawar as it could have been, if our security forces were not
performing their duties dedicatedly. There is no //security lapse// and our men
have laid down their lives to save the citizens.

Bucha asks: This //wave of terrorism// is putting the whole nation in a //state
of paralysis//; are we trying to //curtail// it and //do we know what we are up
against//? Khan says: Desperate attempts of this kind are very difficult to
avoid, yet our police force is doing its best. The terrorists are targeting
softer targets like the general public. Our sensitive institutions are safer
than before and terrorists are just creating anarchy in order to //demoralize//
people.

Bucha asks: How can people help you to help them? Khan says: The people must
believe that this //war// is our own war and we have to fight it and win it. We
have enormous //public support// and our //public awareness campaign// is going
on very successfully. The people should bring everything //extraordinary// in
our notice on police emergency number.

Bucha establishes a video link with Saqibullah Khan Chamkani, member of the
National Assembly from the ANP [Awami National Party] in Peshawar, and asks:
What is the role of the federal government in lending a //helping hand// to the
provincial //authorities//. Why is Peshawar the most //vulnerable target//?
Chamkani says: Peshawar is the //symbol// of Pakistan's //survival// so it is
much attacked //target//. The operation in Waziristan and its //reaction// in
Peshawar go together.

Bucha asks: Does it mean that the success in Waziristan is a must in order to
secure Peshawar? Chamkani says: Yes, it is very important for that. It is not
easy to get rid of this //crisis// as the city of Peshawar is in turmoil for a
long time now. The funds we are allocating are coming from the //development
fund// of the province. We seek the help of the federation and I hope they will
give //financial help// to us.

Bucha asks: Peshawar has suffered a //structural loss// as well; is that help
//forthcoming//? Chamkani says: It is a question of our //survival// and // we
should all be focused now on this particular problem//. In fact, the power
politics is very painful for us at this stage as our attention is diverted from
the major issue. //We are not happy with the current political scenario// in
Islamabad.

Bucha asks: How to get out of this //state of paralysis//? Chamkani says: It is
a difficult job keeping in view our resources, still we are trying our best in
our //limited resources//. Our civil society has done well, but the ultimate
solution lies with the federation; as the Army comes under their control. We
just need to eliminate their bases in the tribal areas and the things will get
better.

Bucha asks: How can we //curtail// this //new wave of terrorism//? Chamkani
says: Our police are not //trained for this purpose//; they are trained for
//ordinary law and order situations// but this is not a case of //ordinary law
and order//. So, to expect the police to deal with this menace as much
efficiently as in the normal circumstances will be unfair and cause their morale
to decline. It is the job of the Army because it is //guerilla warfare//. Still
our //security apparatus// has stood its ground and done well in an
extraordinary situation. Our //intelligence sharing// between the //agencies//
must improve//.

Bucha establishes a video link with Ghulam Sarwar Muhmand, former president of
NWFP [North West Frontier Province] Chamber of Commerce, in Peshawar and asks:
How much has economy been affected in Peshawar and the province? Muhmand says:
Investment is not possible unless there is peace and stability in the country.
The government policies must be consistent, only then the investor feels
comfortable. Both these things have not been there for many years. We have
invited the federal government's attention to it many times but in vain. A
//special package// must be allowed for the area because people are winding up
their business and leaving the province.

Bucha asks: Can the economy be linked up with the security? Muhmand says: If
//situation// is //conducive// only then the //economy// flourishes. If the
policies of the federal government are inconsistent, the economy cannot rise
until we have provincial autonomy in financial matters. Since the //monitory
policies// are controlled by the federal government therefore action is wanting
on their part. Suicide bombing increased when //oppression// passed its limits,
then the tendency of suicide bombing multiplied. Now there are other players in
the region and the Taliban have been hired against us. Pakistan has never been
in such a great mess. A nationalist leader of a very high calibre is the demand
of the situation to pull Pakistan out of it.

Bucha asks: Have you seen such //measures// to improve the //economic
situation// of Peshawar and the province? Muhmand says: I have seen no measures
so far and I am not hopeful that there are any at present. There is enough
electricity in the province, but cheap electricity is denied to the business
community. How can there be proper economic progress and growth?

Bucha concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1400gmt 09 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                             Lancaster Evening Post

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday

Mum speaks of terror over letterbox fire attack

BYLINE: Melanie Wallwork

LENGTH: 286 words



HIGHLIGHT: A brave Lancashire mum has spoken of how she tackled a fire started
by arsonists, just feet away from her daughters in their home.


The blaze broke out when thugs with a lighter set fire to the letterbox of a
terraced house in Stanleyfield Road, Deepdale, around 4.20pm on Monday.

The woman's seven-year-old daughter spotted the fire and alerted her mum, who
led the girl and her 11-year-old sister to safety. The mum-of-two then dialled
999, but managed to put out the fire with a pan of water before firecrews
arrived.

The incident comes a few days after mum-of-nine Mary Fox died in a house fire
after a lit firework was pushed through her door in Cornwall.

The Deepdale mum, who asked not to be named, said: "I was ironing in the back
room and I told my daughter to bring me some hangers from upstairs. She came out
into the passage and she saw the fire.

"She was screaming, 'Mum, fire, fire.'

"There was smoke and flames and it was very dark.

"I put some water on it so the fire went out."

The woman's 41-year-old husband, who has lived in the area all his life, said he
knew of no motive for the attack.

He said: "I don't have any enemies I know of. Another five or 10 minutes and who
knows what could have happened? It's scary, it happened in the middle of the
day."

Robin Maudsley, chairman of the CRAB (Community, Residents and Businesses)
community group in Deepdale, added: "We can't understand why this family was
targeted, they keep themselves to themselves. It could have been so much worse."

Det Insp Dave McKenna of Preston CID, said: "This could easily have had
devastating consequences.

"The family thought a firework had been posted through, but we have since
recovered a lighter."

* Anyone with information should contact Preston CID on 01772 209746.

>> Vote in our latest web poll

News Review map: Relive the top headlines of the year so far

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PRES


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan TV show discusses ways to counter terror attacks

LENGTH: 1955 words


Text of report by pivate Pakistani TV channel Dawn News on 9 November

[Dawn News TV anchor Naveen Naqvi] The war on terror is a fight the likes of
which the world has never seen before. An amorphous enemy -- hard to pin down,
almost invisible. That is why we see the battle taking place in an
unconventional way. Take for instance this weekend, where a terrorist attacked a
crowded market outside Peshawar and managed to kill a moderate anti-Taleban
nazim [administrator], among 12 others. We also see that a [word indistinct]
shooter gunned down a suspected suicide bomber; another suicide attacker remains
on the loose. Now how should we view this? Can we say that there is a better
understanding of how these guys think and that there is greater intelligence?
Well let us ask Masood Sharif Khattak, the former director general of the
Intelligence Bureau who now joins me live from Islamabad. Good morning and
welcome to Breakfast at Dawn.

[Begin live relay] [Khattak over video link] Good morning.

[Naqvi] Now when we look at today's headlines, especially the Dawn front page,
you know you have got these two stories practically setting each other off. One
is on the terrorist attacking a crowded market which left this moderate Taleban,
anti-Taleban nazim dead, and then we also have a sharpshooter gunning down a
suspected suicide bomber. So would you say that there is a better understanding
of the enemy, or should we think that there could be better intelligence?

[Khattak] Well like you have been seeing for quite some time, they are operating
with almost what you could call impunity. There is hardly anything that is
deterring their attacks and basically it has been that we do not know much about
them. For example, in the attack on the GHQ [General Headquarters], one of their
main planners and executers was sort of taken in. He was taken alive and from
there onwards you saw a series of arrests, but every single one of them is not
visible to you and me. I think the intelligence agencies and others must have
worked on their complete network, and one man of that caliber leads to a lot of
intelligence and a lot of networks that work within their small cells. So all
that is coming about, and I think the police and the rest of it -- the visible
security is now pretty much more vigilant then they were some time ago -- but I
would like to point out here on a bigger plane, I think what has to happen is
that at the bigger level, a higher level, the coordination between the police
and the intelligence has to be brought about a little more smoothly. And
probably like they say, somebody on the part of the government or the state of
Pakistan has got to take the bull by the horns, because I am one person who is
not ready to accept the level of terrorism you see in this region today in
Pakistan and on our borders, or even across in the areas that are under the
control of the Americans and the NATO forces. The whole thing is not beyond the
joint capability of the allies who are fighting the war against terror; now it
is in its ninth year or so. So they have to probably come about with a strategy
to get over all this, and the sooner the better. You cannot have a region in
turmoil for this long and the end nowhere in sight. So there has got to be a
break.

[Naqvi] I have to ask you right there that... you know you very rightly say that
it has been nine years or eight years at this point; that this war has been
going on, and yet you know the allies have not, it seems, managed to come
together and figure out how to tackle this issue. So what do you suggest is the
solution to that?

[Khattak] Well the solution is there. It is all there on the ground, but like I
said, it has got to be implemented. For instance, there is a lot of
intelligence-sharing going on in bases at Kabul between all the allies. We have
people there and things like that which bring about quicker coordination. But
then if it still has not happened, then I guess the allies and others have got
to put their heads together wherever there are cross purposes from any side. I
mean, Pakistan is unfairly blamed for a lot of things -- that Pakistan has not
done this; Pakistan has not done that; which is not all true and a lot of us are
also very apologetic about all this. And I think there are a lot of cross
purposes. For instance, I keep talking about the Indian interference from
Afghanistan into Pakistan, and the Indians operating under the nose and eyes of
our allies in Afghanistan. And then we have been blamed for a few people
crossing the border on and off; you know, all of these sorts ! of cross
interests, they have to be done away with by all sides if everybody is really
serious about fighting this menace and getting it over with. And, if they do not
do that, it is going to keep happening for years, and nobody will really know
what to do about it and this is just about it. If everybody puts it... they get
their act together in unison, and decide that this has to finish., I don't
understand how a hundred, two hundred, four thousand, two thousand, whatever
figure you might like to give; they are not in the hundreds and thousands of
people. So if all this is beyond the capability of the world's biggest or the
strongest armed forces on earth, the United States, their technical gadgets and
everything -- then add to that the Pakistani capability -- and if we cannot get
it over with, and put this fight with a few hundred people to an end, it cannot
be anything else but a cross to bear for all the players in the region.

[Naqvi] [word indistinct] makes you wonder how this managed to happen. Well, Mr
Khattak, we are going to go over to Lahore now, where the changing of the guard
ceremony is taking place at the mausoleum of the national poet Muhammad Iqbal.
Let us go over to Lahore now and take a look. We will be bringing you live
pictures from there. Let us see what is happening in Lahore.

[Passage omitted on the changing of the guard ceremony in Lahore]

[Naqvi] Let us go back to Masood Sharif Khattak, who is with us in our Islamabad
studio. Now so... ok, I understand that it has been all this time, and we have
seen some intelligence failures, but would you say that this specific incident
that we are seeing -- that took place in Islamabad where a sharpshooter gunned
down a suspected suicide bomber -- would you see that as some progress? I mean,
people need some hope here I think. They want to think that the intelligence
apparatus is making some headway. Would you say this is true?

[Khattak] Well if you just take only this particular incident into account...
take it into account, I would say no. It is not the intelligence, because if it
was the intelligence, these people would never have reached this checkpost. The
point is, it is just the vigilance of the visible security that put this
incident down and prevented it from happening. Well you see the point is: in the
state machinery, the interior ministry is something that is sort of the focal
point for all this, and if I were to judge it, I think it has been a miserable
failure over the last two years or so. Now I am not talking about the Musharraf
era, because that has gone and is over. So we have to talk about what is
happening now, and I think that a lot of confidence and everything that is not
there, that you can handle, probably the state machinery to bring it down, bring
all this under control. For example, like you know the [word indistinct] with
all these civil armed forces, the civil intell! igence, the police intelligence,
everything; it has been like I say, I mean they are really attacking you with
impunity still. And I think somewhere in the ministry of interior, all this has
to be coordinated and if the failure continues, then obviously some remedial
measures ought to be taken, and if they are not, we will keep suffering -- that
is it.

[Naqvi] And not to mention Mr Khattak, that every time we do see an attack what
we hear from the government -- and certainly as you mentioned the ministry of
interior -- what we hear is that, well, we had the intelligence, but we were
unable to act on it. You know, nobody wants to hear that kind of thing anymore.
But let us talk some more about this right after a very quick break. Do stay
with us; you are watching Breakfast at Dawn.

[Commercial break]

[Naqvi] Welcome back from the break; this is Breakfast at Dawn. Let me go back
now to Masood Sharif Khattak, who is with us in our Islamabad studio. He is the
former director general of the Intelligence Bureau. Mr Khattak, let me ask you:
what would you have done if you were in charge of the intelligence right now? Do
you think that this is in fact a very, very difficult situation? Would you have
done things differently?

[Khattak] I would have certainly done it differently, and I do not think this is
a task which is beyond the capacity of the intelligence resources available,
even to just that one organization that I had the honor to command. I would do
it very differently, because you see this is not a public relations exercise.
For instance, the other day there was a brigadier who was shot in Islamabad and
all I heard... all I read in the newspapers coming out from the interior
ministry was that the interior minister has asked for a report from the IG
[inspector general] Islamabad. Now what he is going to do with this report? It
is going to do no good, and the point is why did it happen; where did it start
from; who were the people behind it? All this is something that goes on behind
the scenes, and it is only the people who matter, taking decisions on time, who
know what is happening. The rest of the general public just carries on with
their normal life, and you know they start realizing the difference in their
daily life when things start improving, because you pluck somebody out of
society who was probably going to damage that society. All this happens
behind...I would have certainly done it differently, out of the glare of your
cameras and other things. I don't think that is happening. If that was
happening, you would have noticed the difference on the ground and I would like
to add over here, because all this does not happen. The [word indistinct] is all
there; the machinery is there; the machinery, the apparatus; everything is
there. It is always the man behind the gun that matters, and that is not saying
that I have invented this; it has been there for ages. We have all heard about
it. Now in this case also, I would like to think that probably the people
running the interior ministry and the people who were probably looking after law
and order enforcement; the rest of it in Pakistan, I do not think they have done
the government justice. They have to get their act together quickly, or else I
don't know, I don't want to go beyond that, but I guess everyone should
understand. It is a question [word indistinct] of Pakistan. They are not talking
about small things. This is about the lives of 180 million people. Today you
talk to the mothers, and there is not a single mother in the country who is not
worried about their children going to school and things like that, and so many
other things. So I think a little more seriousness is required in there and
probably...yes, there are many other ways to do it. Look, this is all the
underworld, right? The state also has to go into the underworld and fight this
battle for Pakistan.

[End live relay]

[Naqvi] What you are suggesting is perhaps to keep it a little more...quite out
of the media and to be more serious, and more focused about it. Thank you so
much for being part of the program. Masood Sharif Khattak there, former director
general of the Intelligence Bureau.

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in English 0205gmt 09 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wiltshire Gazette and Herald

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Pewsey couple living in fear after terror attack

BYLINE: Katie Bond

SECTION: CHIPPENHAM NEWS (CHIPPENHAM NEWS)

LENGTH: 355 words


A couple are living in fear after a firework smashed through their living room
window on Halloween night.

The couple, who wish to remain anonymous, were playing computer games in their
living room in Pewsham, Chippenham, at about 11pm on October 31.

The woman, who is in her 30s, said the firework was just inches away from
hitting her as it darted around the room before burning out.

She said: "There were some fireworks being set off outside and one came in
through the window.

"I was hysterical, my other half was really quite frightened and the cat just
darted from the room into the bedroom, but then the bedroom window was attacked
too, so the poor thing was terrified.

"I was sitting near the window on the computer at the time so how it missed me
I've got no idea, but I'm grateful to whoever it was that was looking after me
that night.

"I was screaming, I've never felt so frightened, everything goes through your
mind because fireworks are so unpredictable.

She added: "It all happened so quickly, I didn't realise that it flew around the
room before it landed in the corner and burnt out the carpet, which is
completely beyond repair, and some of the furniture has been damaged too.

"We had just watched a scary movie because it was Halloween night so we were a
bit jumpy.

"Luckily, we weren't injured physically, but emotionally, the scars are still
there and I am still shaking."

"I'm still a little fearful of being home on my own."

Staff at the Tesco Express store in Pewsham said they carried out ID checks on
everybody under the age of 25 wanting to buy items such as eggs, flour and
fireworks and refused sales if the customers were considered suspicious, during
Halloween and bonfire night period.

Earlier this week mother-of-nine Mary Fox, 59, of Bodmin died after a firework
was pushed through her letterbox.

Sergeant Steve Mcgrath said: "Obviously we take incidents like this very
seriously indeed.

"Thankfully nobody was hurt in this case but all sales of fireworks, even legal
sales, can be considered dangerous if they are in the wrong hands."

Anyone with information on the incident in Pewsham should call 0845 408 7000.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

Arrested Bosnian terror group planned attacks on church, NATO troops

LENGTH: 532 words


Bosnian Federation TV's 60 Minutes current affairs programme reports the arrest
of Bosnian Muslim terror suspect Rijad Rustempasic and his associates. The group
had been arrested in March 2008, but were subsequently released, for which the
acting prosecutor is criticized. The report outlines the latest police operation
to arrest the group, and praises the Federation police, the
Intelligence-Security Agency of Bosnia-Hercegovina, and some prosecutors for
their professionalism.

Three persons are mentioned as terror suspects - Rijad Rustempasic, Edis Velic
and Abdulah Handzic. It is reported that the Intelligence Security Agency of
Bosnia-Hercegovina had intercepted a phone conversation between Velic and
Rustempasic on 25 December 2007, in which Velic reportedly said "the holidays
are over, Christmas is gone and we have not had a party". The reporter notes:
"After several other proposals by Velic, Rustempasic said the weather was cold,
and what they had looked at should not be done." It is reported that the group
tried to obtain hunting optical equipment for surveillance at night, binoculars
for day and night surveillance, but "they could not find the silent ones", as
said in the wiretapped conversation. It is alleged that these may be silencers
for fire guns.

The international prosecutor Drew Engel, who took over the case, says he had
interrogated close to 70 witnesses and several suspects, while over 1,000 pieces
of evidence have been collected in Bosnia, Austria and Germany. The
investigation was escalated as the group not only did not stop their work
following the release after initial arrest in March 2008, but also expanded it.
"The search of Rustempasic's family house yielded an abundance of evidence,
which will help prosecutor Engel complete the mosaic of their terrorist
activities. According to our information, night surveillance equipment was found
in the house, as well as an automatic gun and a bullet clip, several sets of
camouflage trousers and shirts, military caps, water flasks, several tents,
military combat vests, an arms cleaning rod, and over 30 hand bomb safety
handles. This is only a part of arsenal collected by Rustempasic and the group
over the past year and a half, not including the equipment seized during the
first arrest operation in March last year," it is reported.

The earlier 60 Minutes report on this case is quoted, suggesting seizure of
anti-tank mines, topographic maps, schemes and toolkits for creation of
explosive devices, as well as cooperation with Austrian enforcement agencies,
which resulted in the arrest of Muhamed Rustempasic, Rijad's twin brother, for
illegal trafficking of weapons and military equipment.

"The extended investigation, which will be led by prosecutor Engel, will show
when the group planed to attack the Franciscan monastery in Fojnica, Liaison and
Observation teams of the [NATO-led] Stabilization Force in Bosnia-Hercegovina
and to destroy electricity high-voltage power transmission lines. It will also
open the way for more arrests before the final indictment," it is concluded in
the report.

Source: Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation TV, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian
1900 gmt 9 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday

US terror suspect was in Mumbai prior to attacks - Indian investigators

LENGTH: 701 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 13 November: Canadian Pakistani Tahawwur Hussain Rana, arrested by
the FBI for planning terror strikes in India along with American national David
Headley, was in Mumbai five days prior to the Lashkar-i-Toiba [LT] attacks there
on 26 November last year.

This has emerged as the Indian investigators continue to trace the movements of
both men, now under detention in Chicago in the US.

Highly-placed sources said that 49-year-old Rana had stayed in a guest house in
south Mumbai till 21 November before flying off to a European destination on his
way back to Canada.

The sources said this has raised suspicion that he may have given final touches
to the audacious Mumbai terror strikes five days later that left 183 people
dead, including some of the American and British nationals.

The Headley trail also took a new turn with reports of contacts between Headley
and Mahesh Bhatt's son Rahul but the noted film-maker dismissed the possibility
of his son being involved in any terror activities. Mahesh Bhatt said it was his
family which had decided to break the information to the Mumbai Police about
15-20 days ago on Rahul's contacts with the US terror suspect.

Investigators also found that the Headley stayed in two hotels in Delhi's
Paharganj, a favourite of budget travellers from abroad.

They are also poring into details whether Headley had any role in various blasts
that had taken place in India between 2006 and 2008.

The operatives of National Investigation Agency (NIA), which had registered a
case on Wednesday [11 November] against Headley, are looking into the
possibility of whether the US national of Pakistani origin had any plans for
carrying out multiple blasts in multiple cities.

Headley was arrested by FBI a few months ago for suspected links with LT along
with his Canadian associate Tahawwur Hussain Rana.

The NIA and Delhi Police officials Friday visited the two hotels where Headley
had stayed in Delhi and also recovered his passport details.

Official sources said that Headley had stayed for a total of over 12 months
during his multiple visits to India. Details have emerged of telephone calls
made to several foreign countries, including Pakistan.

Sources said investigators may go to Abu Dhabi to find out Headley's possible
links there because of his arrival from that country on an occasion and calls
made by him to people there.

Investigators were also going through a flood of details that include Headley's
calls made from several mobile phones he had and to look for clues from the
passenger details of the railways and inter-state bus terminals to find out the
cities Headley may have visited.

According to the passport details of Headley, he had visited the national
capital and Mumbai during April last year. He had then left for Pakistan.

Sources said Rana had visited once on his own passport but travelled extensively
across India. Investigators are also looking into whether Rana had travelled
into India by using some other names and passports.

They said central [federal] security agencies are also investigating Headley's
suspected links to terror outfit Indian Mujhaideen, which had carried out a
series of bomb attacks across the country, including in Rajasthan and Delhi,
that left over 170 people dead.

Sources said Headley had stayed in Taj Hotel in Mumbai, one of the terror
targets last November, and had also tried to hire a house for stay in the city.

As reports of his son's contacts with Headley surfaced, Mahesh Bhatt told
reporters that Rahul was shocked when he saw Headley's photograph in TV channels
and that he was part of a terror network.

"The family decided that Rahul should volunteer this information to the police
as the matter involves national security," Mahesh Bhatt said and denied that his
son had any friendship with Headley.

"A person you run into a gym can't be called a friend," he said, adding one
could not imagine a white American to be part of a terror network.

Rahul's uncle Mukesh said police have given a clean chit to his nephew but
highly placed government sources said no-one has given any clean chit.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1459gmt 13 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday

Terrorist attack against police in Russia's Ingushetia prevented - agency

LENGTH: 329 words


Three law enforcers have suffered concussion as a result of the explosion of a
rocket projectile in the Nazran city interior department in Ingushetia, Russian
news agency Interfax-Yug reported on 14 November.

The blast occurred on the second floor of the new city interior department
building this morning, the agency reported. "Three law enforcers suffered
concussion and were taken to hospital. When the explosive device went off, three
rockets from the rocket launcher exploded, one of them reached the second floor
of the new building," a source in Nazran law enforcement bodies has told
Interfax-Yug.

At present another two rockets are being rendered harmless, the source added.
The city interior department staff have been evacuated.

"As a result of one of the blasts material damage was done to the building," the
representative of law-enforcement bodies said.

An earlier Interfax report said that an attempt to open fire at the Ingushetia
Main Interior Directorate in Nazran was prevented this morning, when three free
rockets, ready to be launched, were discovered at a distance of 300 m from the
building of the directorate, in a building under construction," a source said.

The city interior department and the Main Interior Directorate used to share one
building, but after a major blast on 17 August 2009, claiming 25 lives and
injuring 162 people, the city interior department moved to another building.

Earlier Russian news agency ITAR-TASS reported another incident that occurred in
another North Caucasus republic, Dagestan, late on 13 November. In the village
of Sergokala rebels opened fire at the private homes of Murad Mutayev, the
criminal investigation department head of the Sergokalinskiy District Interior
Department, and his subordinate Magomed Rasulov. Nobody suffered as a result of
the incident, the agency reported.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0744, 0652 gmt 14 Nov 09;
ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0535 gmt 14 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Gers ace terror at bus attack

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 34 words


RANGERS ace Madjid Bougherra has spoken of his terror at the hands of Egyptian
football fans.

He was on a coach with his Algeria team-mates ahead of today's World Cup
qualifier in Cairo when yobs stoned it.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MADJID: Bus was stoned

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

India gives fresh dossier on Mumbai terror attack to Pakistan

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 17 Nov: India Tuesday [17 Nov] handed over to Pakistan a fresh
dossier of evidence on last year's Mumbai terror attacks containing statements
of key witnesses, including a magistrate and FBI officials, with the hope that
the prosecution in Pakistan would be expedited.

The 7th dossier was handed over by Y K Sinha, Joint Secretary (Pakistan
Division) in the Ministry of External Affairs, to Pakistan's Deputy High
Commissioner Rifat Masood who was called to the South Block for the same.

The new dossier is believed to consist of statements of witnesses, including the
deposition of a Mumbai magistrate before whom the lone captured Pakistani gunman
Mohammad Ajmal Kasab had given a voluntary confession of his alleged involvement
in the attacks.

In his statement to the magistrate, Kasab had confessed that the conspiracy for
the 26/11 attacks was hatched in Pakistan by terror group Lashkar-i-Toiba
operatives including alleged mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi.

Lakhvi has been arrested by Pakistan and is facing prosecution along with six
others.

The dossier is also believed to include deposition of FBI officers who told the
trial court in Mumbai that mobile phones recovered from terror sites were used
by terrorists to communicate with their handlers in Pakistan during the terror
siege.

Deposition of foreign nationals and seizures of some articles recovered from
terror sites such as Hotels Taj and Oberoi and Nariman House are also believed
to be part of the dossier.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1918gmt 17 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

India getting evidence of US terror suspect's links with Mumbai attacks planners

LENGTH: 424 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 17 November: In fresh leads linking them with the 26 November
attacks, American terror suspect David Headley and his Pakistani-Canadian
associate Tahawwur Hussain Rana were being handled by the same people who had
given orders to Ajmal Kasab [lone surviving Mumbai gunman] and other terrorists
killed during 26/11.

With National Investigation Agency (NIA) widening its ambit of probe, more
information surfaced about the activities of Headley who was found to have
visited the Osho Ashram in Pune and also used two cyber cafes in Delhi's
Paharganj locality where he had also stayed.

"Evidence is slowly getting established that Headley and Rana were part of the
larger conspiracy behind the Mumbai attack. They were in touch with same people
who were giving directions to (Azmal Amir) Kasab (the lone surviving terrorist
in Mumbai attack) and other terrorists," a senior Home Ministry official said.

Indian investigators have asked FBI, which arrested Headley and Rana for
plotting terror attacks in the US and India, for the voice sample of Headley and
Rana so that it could be compared with the sample available here.

There is definite information that Headley and Rana had stayed in Pakistan
during last year's Mumbai attack and left that country in the first week of
December 2008, the official said.

Following the leads, investigators are questioning a lot of local contacts in
all the places where Headley and Rana had stayed between 2006 and 2009.
"However, there is no prominent person whom he had contacted," he said.

Besides, a large number of people - more than 100 - had contacted Rana after he
issued advertisements in newspapers offering immigration services. "We don't
know how many had availed of the facility and how many of them had gone abroad.
We are verifying all such details," the official said.

During their stay in India, Headley and Rana mostly had used international
credit cards for their financial dealings besides receiving money from abroad
through [company name omitted].

On reports of an official of Pakistan Consulate in Mumbai handing over a
satellite telephone to Headley, the official said there was no proof of that.

On whether filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt's son Rahul, the official said he was not a
terror suspect but efforts were on to ascertain if he had unwittingly helped
Headley and also dismissed reports that Rahul had introduced three Bollywood
[Hindi film industry] actresses to the terror suspect.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1537gmt 17 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

Russia: Arms cache found, three terror attacks reported in southern republic

LENGTH: 274 words


An arms cache has been found at the Aushiger hydroelectric power plant in
Cherekskiy District of Russia's Republic of Kabarda-Balkaria, Russian news
agency Interfax-South reported on 18 November.

The report quoted the unified joint information centre of the Kabarda-Balkaria
law-enforcement agencies as saying that officers of the district interior
department had found "a cache in the woods, 200 m. away from the power plant
building, which contained 4 kg of plastid [as received, should be plastit - a
type of plastic explosive], seven grenades of various makes with fuses, four
MUV-type detonators, and an SZ-4 charge".

RIA Novosti news agency on the same day reported that unknown persons on 17
November blew up an electric substation and a cableway support in
Kabarda-Balkaria's Elbrusskiy District, and also opened fire on a police post.
No-one was injured in any of the three incidents, the agency quoted a source in
the republic's unified information centre as saying.

"At about 2113 Moscow time [1800 gmt], a transformer substation was blown up in
the Adyl-Su Gorge in Elbrusskiy District; one hour later, the explosion of an
improvised explosive device at the Azau-Krugozor cableway severed a cable
between the fifth and fourth supports," the agency source reported, adding that
the Azau stationary traffic police post outside the town of Tyrnyauz came under
what was believed to have been underbarrel grenade-launcher fire on 17 November.
The police returned fire and repelled the attack, the source said.

Sources: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0721 gmt 18 Nov 09;
Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1059 gmt 18 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Luxor terrorist attack leaves Britons dead;
RETRO REPORT How we covered...

BYLINE: Tony Woolway

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 276 words


AS many as eight S Britons may have died in yesterday's terrorist gun attack on
holidaymakers in Egypt.

The Foreign Office said last night tS hat six Britons were confirmed dead in the
massacre in the southern resort of Luxor.

Two more British people were said to be missing or unaccounted for after gunmen
opened fire on tourists and fought a three-hour gun battle with police.

British Consul Jenny Taylor has gone to Luxor and last night was still trying to
confirm the number of British victims.

A spokesman for the British Embassy in Cairo said, "There are people unaccounted
for, unidentified bodies, but we don't know what nationalities they are. The
consul is talking to the hospitals, the authorities and tour companies and
offering comfort and assistance."

News of British victims in the atrocity in which 70 people, including more than
60 foreigners, were killed came as British holidaymakers were being flown out of
Luxor because of the incident. Many of the dead are thought to be Japanese.

The attack was also thought to have left six terrorists and three police dead.
The Foreign Office in London said its concern was to ensure next of kin of the
British victims were informed.

The Foreign Office advised UK travellers to avoid the area and issued two
emergency numbers for people concerned about relatives or friends.

Until yesterday's atrocity, which was being blamed on Islamic extremists, the
Foreign Office was merely advising Britons visiting Egypt to be vigilant, but
after the attack near a temple on the west bank of the Nile holidaymakers were
warned to avoid the area and officials said Luxor was reported to be under
curfew.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

Indian chief justice opposes "unrestrained" media coverage of terror attacks

LENGTH: 673 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 21 November: Cautioning media about the ill-effects of unrestrained
coverage of terror attacks,

Chief Justice of India [CJI] K.G. Balakrishnan on Saturday [21 November] said
that it can provoke a disproportionate level of anger among people, leading to
irrational desire for retribution.

Speaking at an International Conference of Jurists on Terrorism here, he said if
terrorist attacks were attributed to individuals belonging to a certain ethnic
or religious community then it may result in unreasonable discrimination and
retaliation against ordinary members of that community.

"We must take note of the fact that the symbolic impact of terrorist attacks on
the minds of ordinary citizens has also been considerably amplified by pervasive
media coverage."

"The proliferation of 24-hour news channels and the digital medium has ensured
that quite often some disturbing images and statements reach a wide audience
within a short span of time," he said, addressing the two-day conference,
inaugurated by President of India Pratibha Patil.

Law Minister of India Veerappa Moily and eminent jurists from various countries
were present.

Justice Balakrishanan said while it was fair for the media to criticize the
inadequacies in the security and law-enforcement apparatus, there was also a
possibility that the resentment fuelled by media coverage can turn into an
irrational desire for distribution.

"For instance, if terrorist strikes are attributed to individuals belonging to a
certain ethnic or religious community, then the same may result in unreasonable
discrimination and retaliation against ordinary members of that community," he
said.

The CJI said that such a trend was clearly visible in the United States
aftermath of the 9/11 attacks and has been the cause of the communal violence in
many instances even in India.

He said that legal response to terrorism must be founded on a rational
understanding of the underlying causes for such extremist behaviour. Knee-jerk
responses such as clamping down on civil liberties or a spate of arbitrary
arrests and increased surveillance over citizens can prove to be
counterproductive, he added. In such an atmosphere, the CJI said, it is only
through calm deliberation and mutual tolerance that the legal systems of
different nations can work together to tackle this problem.

Justice Balakrishnan said that in the age of increasing globalization, better
facilities for communication and flow of capital across borders has also made it
easier for terrorist networks to assume cross-border dimensions. Such networks,
he said, often involved individuals located in different countries who
collaborate among themselves by transferring funds and procuring weapons and
explosives. He said that with easy availability of information over the internet
sometimes individuals learn how to build explosives on their own. This meant
that terrorism was an international problem and required effective multilateral
engagements between different nations.

Maintaining that there were practical hurdles and delays on account of wide
disparity in the procedures for assistance in investigation and extradition, the
CJI said that the government of a particular country may be reluctant to act
against persons suspected of involvement in terrorist attacks in another
country.

"Such a situation may arise when the terrorist group enjoys considerable local
support. To tackle such circumstances, there has been a constructive suggestion
that terrorist attacks should be treated as a unique form of 'armed conflict',
wherein obligations shall be placed on all nations to collaborate in the
investigation and prosecution of persons responsible for terrorist attacks,
irrespective of the location of the attacks or the nationality of the
perpetrators."

This, he said, called for blurring of the distinctions between the international
and domestic nature of armed conflict when it comes to terror attacks.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1007gmt 21 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan frontier police chief sees foreign hand behind terror attacks

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar, 21 November: Inspector General of NWFP [North-West Frontier Province]
Police (IGP), Malik Naveed Saturday [21 November] said foreign hand is involved
in the current wave of terrorism and explosions in Peshawar and other cities of
NWFP.

He said this while talking to businessmen and city dwellers during his surprise
visit to different bazaars in Sadar and City areas.

During the visit, the IGP met with shopkeepers and police officials at different
check posts.

He also visited Lady Reading Hospital and inquired after the health of injured
Police officials.

During the visit to main Sadar bazaar, Bilour plaza, Khyber bazaar and Qissa
Khawani, the city dwellers and businessmen expressed appreciation over presence
of Police chief among them.

Speaking on the occasion, IGP appreciated the bravery and courage of businessmen
of continuing their business in prevailing circumstances of security threat.

He said foreign hand is behind the unprecedented increase in incidents of
terrorism in the city.

Such incidents, he continued, cannot be carried out by militants without the
support of foreign assistance.

IGP requested the city dwellers to extend support to Police force in the ongoing
war against militancy and extremism.

He said police officials are combating this war with much gallantry and
sacrificing their lives for the sake of providing security to the people.

He also thanked the CM for doubling the Shuada [martyrs] package for Police
force from 1.5m to 3m rupees.

He also apprised people that 35 scanner gates would be installed at all entry
points of Peshawar in Cantt and City areas with the objective of ensuring more
security.

The security of Peshawar would be made more effective with the objective of
providing security to people, he added.

The IGP was accompanied by SP Cantt, Nisar Khan Marwat, PSO to IGP, Qazi Inamur
Rehman, ASP City, Muhammad Imran, DSP Cantt, Shafiullah Khan.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1039gmt
21 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

Thai police arrest suspect implicated in southern separatist terror attacks

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 20 November

[Unattributed report from the 'Breaking News' section: "Suspected Insurgent
Arrested"]

A prime suspect, wanted under court warrants for a number of criminal cases
linked to southern insurgency, was arrested on Friday in Muang district of
Pattani province.

Acting on a tip-off, about 100 police led by Pol Maj-Gen Pichet Pitisethphan,
the provincial police chief, scoured houses along Rong Lao road in Tambon
Sabarang and arrested Abdul Kama who was hiding in a house.

Abdul Kama, 34, is one of the important suspects wanted by police for a number
of terrorist incidents in the three southern border province including a
motorcycle bombing that killed two policemen in Pattani on Jan 5 and the killing
of Pattani judge Rapin Ruankaew on Sept 16 in 2004.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 20 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Quiet American is accused by FBI of planning another terror attack;
Court documents claim that a Chicagoman had links with Islamist groups, writes
Jeremy Page FBI prevented another attack, claim critics

BYLINE: Jeremy Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 51,52

LENGTH: 1531 words


In almost every way, David Headley was the perfect neighbour. When the
49-year-old American citizen began renting an apartment in Mumbai last year he
charmed his landlord, treated his laundry boy with respect, and befriended
Bollywood figures at a local gym.

He told them that he was Jewish, and running an immigration agency from a
respectable part of town. "Sweet and charming," said his landlady. "Down to
earth," said his personal trainer.

Not until the past few days did they learn of his alleged other identity - and
of quite how close security figures claim India may have come to a repeat of the
militant attacks on Mumbai a year ago next week.

Apparently, Mr Headley's original name was Daood Gilani. He was born in
Pakistan, and is suspected of helping the terrorists who carried out last year's
Mumbai attack, and of planning another atrocity this year.

The details emerged when the FBI arrested Mr Headley in his home city of Chicago
on October 3, and filed an affidavit in a US court, which has since been made
public.

It alleges that he worked with Harkat ul-Jihad al-Islami (Huji), a Pakistan
militant group, and Lashkare-Taiba (LeT), the Pakistan group blamed for last
year's Mumbai attacks. The document also outlines claims that he was involved in
the "Mickey Mouse Project" - a plan to attack Jyllands-Posten, the Danish
newspaper whose cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad in 2005 infuriated
Muslims across the world.

It also allegedly shows that he and an apparent accomplice visited India several
times between 2006 and 2009, and appear to have discussed attacking Indian
targets as recently as September this year.

Indian investigators are now examining whether Mr Headley may be the "missing
link" in the Mumbai attacks, which killed more than 170 people between November
26 and 29 last year. They are also investigating claims that he may have planned
attacks this year on targets including the National Defence College in Delhi,
the private Doon School in Dehradun, northern India, or even a nuclear facility.

In the process, they are shedding light on the evolving threat from LeT and its
allies, and on India's haphazard - but so far successful - efforts to respond.
"This is yet another wake-up call for India," said B. Raman, a former
counter-terrorism chief in the Indian external intelligence service, the
Research and Analysis Wing.

"This shows LeT is as determined as ever to attack India, and they are now using
Western territory and foreign Muslims to do it."

The most striking aspect of the Headley case is his profile: unlike other
militant suspects, he is middleaged, speaks fluent English, and lives in
Chicago.

The son of a Pakistani diplomat and an American woman, he went to cadet college
in Pakistan before moving to the US when he was 16.

In 1997, he was jailed for 15 months for trying to smuggle heroin into the US,
according to court documents.

Yet by simply changing his name in 2006, he stayed under the radar on at least
nine visits to India over the past three years.

The FBI says that in the alleged activities he was helped by Tahawwur Hussain
Rana, a Canadian citizen of Pakistani origin who studied at the same cadet
college, and was also arrested in the US last month.

Mr Rana's immigration agency, which has offices in Chicago, helped to arrange Mr
Headley's trips and provided his cover story, according to the FBI.

To burnish his fake Jewish credentials, Mr Headley even carried a book called
How to Pray like a Jew, the FBI says. The FBI appears to have placed him under
surveillance after noticing his frequent movements between India, Pakistan, the
Gulf and Europe.

It alerted Indian authorities after intercepting an e-mail in which Mr Headley's
alleged handler appears to give him a coded message suggesting an attack on
India.

"I need to see you for some new investment plans," the affidavit quotes the
handler as saying.

When Mr Headley asks where, the handler suggests that he should "say hi to
Rahul" in what the FBI says is a reference to a prominent Indian actor.

The actor has since been identified as Rahul Bhatt, a minor Bollywood star, who
has admitted befriending Mr Headley in Mumbai.

In a telephone intercept in September, Mr Headley and Mr Rana are heard
discussing five alleged targets and mentioning "Defence College", according to
the affidavit.

Mr Headley and Mr Rana have yet to respond to the affidavit.

But Indian and Western officials and analysts agree that the evidence presented
so far appears to underline the global reach and ambitions of Huji and LeT. It
also confirms India's long-held fears that such groups might use foreigners of
Pakistani or Indian origin, forcing it to tighten visa procedures.

Western governments had already adapted to that threat, but are worried that Mr
Headley and Mr Rana may have used their immigration agency to move militants
around the globe.

They are also increasingly aware of the threat to their own citizens in India -
particularly during next year's Commonwealth Games in Delhi.

"Prior to Mumbai, LeT was largely seen as a regional threat," said one Western
diplomat.

"Mumbai brought home that attacking India could directly impact Western
interests, by killing their nationals, and also their indirect interests by
destabilising the region."

There is less agreement, however, on what the case says about India's domestic
security.

Some say that LeT and its allies are becoming more desperate as the Pakistan
Army - which once sponsored them - has become distracted by its own campaign
against the Taleban.

India has also taken a number of steps to improve its security apparatus. It
has, for example, now established the National Investigation Agency, and it is
amending legislation to give increased powers to the security services.

P. Chidambaram, the new Home Minister, has now started chairing a meeting of the
heads of all the country's important security agencies every morning.

The National Security Guard - whose commandos took eight hours to get to Mumbai
from their Delhi headquarters last year during the attacks - has expanded its
numbers and set up hubs in four more cities, including Mumbai.

"What about the past, almost 365, days?" said J. K. Dutt, the former NSG chief
who led last year's Mumbai operation. "There haven't been any terrorist attacks
since Mumbai. Doesn't that also speak of the fact that there are steps the
country has taken?" Critics, however, say that India had a lucky escape thanks
only to the FBI. Others question whether the US should have informed India
earlier that it was watching Mr Headley.

Yet the biggest concern of all is still the underfunded and short-staffed
police, a force which under India's Constitution is the responsibility of state
governments.

"When are we going to improve the training, consciousness and capability of
local police?" asked Arun Bhagat, a former head of the Indian Intelligence
Bureau. "Central agencies can only do so much."

The allegations

October 29, 2008 Mr Headley allegedly posts an internet chatroom message about
the cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad in a Danish newspaper. He apparently
writes:

"Everything is not a joke . . . We are not rehearsing a skit on Saturday Night
Live. Call me old-fashioned, but I feel disposed towards violence for the
offending parties"

July, 2009 Mr Headley and his alleged handler exchange e-mails

apparently suggesting attacking

India

Handler "I need to see you for some new investment plans"

Mr Headley "What do you want me to do? Where are you interested in making
investments?"

Handler "I think when we get a chance we should revisit our last location again
and say hi to Rahul"

September 7, 2009 In a recorded telephone call, Mr Headley and Mr Rana allegedly
discuss multiple targets, including one in Denmark and four apparently in India

Mr Headley "Oh my friend, not four, five, five." Mr Headley repeats "Defence
College" twice, then says: "I don't know but once he comes then it will be
known, but I am going to ask him to do that one first"

Mr Rana "In this matter defence" September 17 After Copenhagen operation is
apparently aborted, Mr Headley allegedly tells a contact identified only as
Individual A by telephone that his LeT handlers (Lashkar-e-Taiba) are unwilling
to take risks and "have rotten guts"

Mr Headley "In these conditions it looks that there will be bankruptcy in
approximately six months, my estimate within . . . six to twelve months is that
our companies will be done the way things are going on"

Individual A "It is as it usually happens that if one company fails then another
company will come up"

September 20 In a telephone call with an associate in Pakistan, Mr Headley
responds to news of the death of Ilyas Kashmiri, a Huji (Harkat ul-Jihad
al-Islami) leader, and apparently offers his services to LeT

Mr Headley "The main thing is the business must go on. I don't care that if I am
working for Microsoft or I am working for . . . any GE [company] or Philips, I
don't care. As long as I am making money, I don't give a shit."

The allegations may be contested in court

Online

World Agenda Expert global analysis

timesonline.co.uk/world

'Mumbai brought home that attacking India could directly impact Western
interests, by killing their nationals'

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Taj Mahal Palace & Tower hotel is ringed by troops during the
60-hour terrorist onslaught last year. The raid claimed more than 170 lives
Mumbai
PEDRO UGARTE / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 22, 2009 Sunday

Republican terrorists 'widening attacks across Northern Ireland'

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 476 words

ABSTRACT

Policing board member Alex Attwood says two attempts to murder police officers
this weekend shows dissidents are 'broadening scale'

FULL TEXT

The Police Service of Northern Ireland has confirmed that a car bomb that
partially exploded outside the province's policing board contained 400lbs of
explosives. No one was injured in the blast, which also failed to damage the
policing board's headquarters.

Matt Baggott, the PSNI Chief Constable, said the bombing and a gun attack
against officers near the border were an attack on the entire community and
would not succeed.

The violence over the weekend demonstrate that republican dissidents are  across
Northern Ireland, warned a policing board member.

Two men were arrested following a gun attack on officers in Co Fermanagh last
night. Shot were fired at a police patrol in the border village of Garrison and
PSNI officers returned fire. There were no reports of any injuries.

Dissident republicans were also blamed for a car bomb attack at the headquarters
of the policing board. A car exploded outside the offices in Clarendon Dock
yesterday evening. The vehicle had earlier been driven through a barrier by two
men who then ran off. It is understood no one was injured in the incident. Both
Garrison and the area around Clarendon Dock were cordoned off this morning.

SDLP policing board member Alex Attwood said the scale of dissident attack
appears to be widening and organised after simultaneous incidents in Fermanagh
and Belfast over the weekend.

The West Belfast assembly member said: "The incidents at Clarendon Dock and in
Fermanagh are very grave concerns. It appears that the dissidents are broadening
the scale of their attacks on democracy. The community must now broaden the
scale of its response to the attacks and help the police with all information
that may assist the prosecution of those responsible.

"The police, policing board and DPPs have been the most resilient institutions
over the last decade. They have been tested time and time again. They have, and
will, remain strong in their actions and resolve in the face of these latest
developments."

There has been a  in republican dissident terror attacks this year. On 7 March,
the Real IRA killed sappers Mark Quinsey, 23, and Patrick Azimkar, 21, at
Massereene Army base in Antrim.

Two days later the Continuity IRA shot PSNI Constable Stephen Paul Carroll in
Craigavon, County Armagh.

Since the three murders the International Monitoring Commission has said there
have been 11 attempts to kill members of the PSNI across Northern Ireland. The
IMC - the body set up to monitor the activities of paramilitary groups - has
also warned that the three main dissident groups, the Continuity IRA, the Real
IRA and Oghlaigh na hEireann, are now working more closely together than in
previous years.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 22, 2009 Sunday

Brown delays action on compensating British victims of terror attacks abroad

BYLINE: Ned Temkoguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 559 words

ABSTRACT

Move to close loophole in compensation law denying help to Britons injured
overseas removed from Queen's speech at last minute

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown made a last-minute U-turn on a promise to compensate British
victims of terrorism abroad in the Queen's speech after being told the Murdoch
press might mount a similar campaign for injured soldiers, the Guardian has
learned.

The decision to retrospectively close a loophole in British compensation law
denying any help to British citizens targeted by terror attacks overseas had
been included in last week's Queen's speech, and written into the crime and
security bill. But the Ministry of Defence intervened at the last minute,
ministers involved in the decision said. The defence secretary, Bob Ainsworth,
was quoted as saying he had learned the Sun newspaper planned to run an
interview with a British soldier arguing for similarly retrospective
compensation for soldiers.

The about-turn left ministers, MPs, campaigners, victims and their families
fuming. They were especially angry because they had been led to believe that the
long-sought change in the law would be announced ahead of this week's first
anniversary of the terror attack in Mumbai. , facing life in a wheelchair
without the government help he would have received if attacked in Britain,
galvanised Brown and fellow ministers to fulfil a pledge first made by Tony
Blair in the Commons in 2005.

"It is outrageous," said Ian McCartney, a former minister and chair of the
Labour party, one of the main campaigners for a change in the law. "The MoD's
intervention in the Queen's speech is unprecedented. It has used a separate
issue, and fears about a Murdoch newspaper that is already pledged to campaign
against Gordon right up until election day, to deny simple justice to terror
victims who have suffered and are still suffering."

Soldiers injured or killed are already covered by a compensation scheme, which
is under further review, he said. "Civilian terror victims of attacks like
Mumbai, targeted because they had British passports, have got no compensation at
all."

The cost of extending existing terror compensation arrangements to Pike and
dozens of other British victims of attacks in Bali, Sharm el-Sheik in Egypt, and
Turkey has been estimated by the Treasury at less than £4m.

McCartney and other prominent politicians, including the Labour peer Lord
Brennan, have argued that the government is failing in a "basic moral duty" by
denying compensation to citizens targeted overseas. Other leading western
countries have such compensation arrangements. A Ministry of Defence source last
night defended Ainsworth's intervention.

She said: "The prime minister, not the defence secretary, writes the Queen's
speech." The change had been made because the full implications of the policy
"hadn't been thought out". She said Ainsworth had simply pointed out that if
current military compensation were also made retrospective - "so that soldiers,
quite rightly, are treated equally" - the cost could be more than £500m.

A Downing Street source confirmed the delay in the planned terror compensation
change as a result of "issues raised by the MoD". But he said the prime minister
remained committed to acting, with the aim of reinstating amendments in the
crime and security bill by early next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            November 23, 2009 Monday

Police condemn republican terror attacks

BYLINE: Henry McDonald Ireland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 301 words


Police and politicians have condemned the latest violence in Northern Ireland
after a car bomb attack and gun battle involving suspected dissident republicans
at the weekend.

The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) confirmed that the car bomb that
partially exploded outside the province's policing board in Belfast contained
400lb of explosives. Dissident republicans were blamed for the explosion outside
the board's offices in Clarendon Dock on Saturday evening. The vehicle had
earlier been driven through a barrier by two men, who then ran off.

No one was injured in the blast, which also failed to damage the headquarters.

Matt Baggott, the PSNI chief constable, said the bombing and a gun attack
against officers near the border were an attack on the entire community and
would not succeed. The violence demonstrates that republican dissidents are
widening their terror attacks across Northern Ireland, a policing board member
warned.

In County Fermanagh, four men were arrested after shots were fired at a police
patrol in the border village of Garrison on Saturday night. There were no
reports of any injuries.

An SDLP policing board member, Alex Attwood, said the two incidents showed that
the scale of dissident attacks was widening. A Sinn Fein assembly member, Gerry
Kelly, said it was an attack on the communities who elected members of the
policing board. "It is unacceptable."

There has been a marked upsurge in republican dissident terror attacks this
year. On 7 March, the Real IRA killed sappers Mark Quinsey, 23, and Patrick
Azimkar, 21, at Massereene army base in Antrim. Two days later the Continuity
IRA shot PSNI constable Stephen Paul Carroll in Craigavon, Co Armagh.

Dissident republicans were blamed for a car bomb attack outside police
headquarters in Belfast on Saturday evening

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan police arrest 13 allegedly involved in Lahore terror attacks

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Lahore, 23 November: CIA [Crime Investigation Agency] police have arrested 13
members of a banned extremist organization allegedly involved in a number of
recent terror attacks in Lahore.

This was disclosed by SP [Superintendent of Police] CIA Umer Virk while talking
to media persons at Ichra police station here Monday [23 November]. He said the
arrested terrorists belong to Waziristan and Southern Punjab areas. Umer Virk
added, the police arrested two persons involved in Babu Sabu suicide attack
while other 11 others involved in Manawan and Beedian incidents were also
arrested.

He said explosive material and illegal weapons were recovered from their
possession while further investigation is in progress.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1924gmt
23 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

Indian minister to visit Mumbai on terror attack anniversary

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, Nov 23 (PTI) India's Home Minister P Chidambaram will visit Mumbai on
the first anniversary of 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks and inaugurate a martyrs'
memorial.

"Chidambaram will inaugurate the memorial at the police gymkhana here on 26
November," Chief Minister of India's western state of Maharashtra Ashok Chavan
told reporters here.

On the same day, a 'Suraksha March' (security parade), of police and various
security agencies, has been organized from Gateway of India to Girgaum
Chowpatty. "The police force would showcase its newly-acquired modern weaponry
to instill faith in the citizens that we are ready to face a 26/11-like crisis
in a better way," Chavan said.

The Government has also planned a programme in the memory of martyrs and victims
of the attack, in the presence of their family members, at Gateway of India in
Mumbai to mark the anniversary, the chief minister said.

The Government is also launching its first batch of 'Force One' commandos on the
lines of National Security Guards tomorrow at suburban Goregaon.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1642gmt 23 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

Bosnian opposition party condemns "terrorist" attack on its official

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation official news agency FENA

Sarajevo, 23 November: A delegation of the SDP's [Social Democratic Party,
Sarajevo-based opposition party]  Zvornik regional committee, headed by its
chairman Fadil Banjanovic, has visited Zivince Mayor Hasan Muratovic, the victim
of the terrorist attack which took place in his office on 19 November [when
Muratovic was shot by a local businessman].

The visitors voiced their empathy to Muratovic, who suffered serious injuries,
and wished him a quick recovery. They commended the staff at the Tuzla hospital
for their dedication and skill in critical moments.

"This monstrous act was particularly difficult for us because Mayor Muratovic
did his best to support the return process in eastern Bosnia, deeply aware of
its importance for Bosnia-Hercegovina's reintegration," Banjanovic said.

Muratovic had already been targeted by those who are used to profiting from
anarchy and lawlessness, and similar attacks had been abetting attacks on Mirsad
Djapo, former Brcko mayor and now chairman of Brcko District's municipal
assembly, the Zvornik SDP said.

Banjanovic said that it was time for the relevant authorities to stop treating
such cases as isolated attacks on individuals and that preventative steps had to
be taken to neutralize the environment which inspires and abets such incidents.

Source: Federation News Agency, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1331 gmt
23 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

A year on, Mumbai still feels vulnerable to terror attacks

BYLINE: Erika Kinetz in Mumbai, India

LENGTH: 529 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE walls that the rockets blew out have not been repaired, and the
plaster is a dense pattern of bullet holes. Dozens of holes, blasted by
grenades, pock-mark the linoleum floors.


A  year after the Mumbai terror attacks that left 166 people dead,  the Chabad
House - a once-popular site with Jewish travellers where six foreigners were
killed - remains scarred, still and quiet.

In part, that silence is a symptom of how much remains unchanged since ten
militants with assault rifles fanned out across the city on 26 November  last
year, attacking hotels, a train  station and other targets, paralysing India's
financial capital and shocking the country.

While Mumbai's large hotels and important business centres have paid a lot to
improve their own security, many worry that the city as a whole remains
vulnerable to another assault from Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based group
blamed for the attacks, or other assailants.

India is trying the lone surviving gunman, Ajmal Kasab, but  Lashkar-e-Taiba's
leaders remain free in Pakistan. "Nothing has changed to alter the
vulnerabilities of Mumbai," said Ajai Sahni, executive director of the Institute
for Conflict Management in New Delhi.

"The only institutions that can protect against terrorism are state
institutions. They are failing to do so. As a result,  private institutions are
being forced to spend large amounts of money on largely ineffective security."

He blames the failure to beef up national security on weak-willed politicians,
some of whom are corrupt and benefit from lax policing.

At the time of the attack, critics complained the police were poorly trained and
outgunned. Many, armed only with sticks, fled the attackers. Others, including
the city's anti-terror chief, were killed.

Today, the front of the Taj Mahal hotel, where 32 were killed, is sealed. All
visitors must pass through a narrow aperture, which on a recent afternoon was
watched by seven men. All bags are screened, and the entire property is ringed
with barricades and guards.

The Oberoi Group has spent  £50,000 on  baggage scanners, metal detectors and
patrolmen at its Trident hotel, where 33 people were killed.

But  a single guard,  talking on a mobile phone,  monitored the wide main
entrance of the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji train station, where 58 died and 104
were injured.

Inside, a throbbing river of commuters flowed around six unmanned and largely
unused metal detectors. Almost no-one was stopped at three checkpoints that lead
to the tracks.

Deven Bharti, a top city police official, said that apparent disparity does not
reflect the many invisible measures police have taken - and the  £16 million
they have  spent - to make the city as a whole safer. Mumbai's police force has
grown by 1,000 this year, to 43,000, and every new recruit receives anti-terror
training, he said.

But the Chabad House has yet to bounce back. While the conference rooms of the
Taj Mahal and Trident hotels buzz with commerce, at the Jewish centre there is
only the swish of ceiling fans and the frantic flapping of a trapped pigeon's
wings.

Rabbi Avraham Berkowitz, who heads the Chabad Mumbai Relief Fund, says the delay
is due to security concerns as well as the deeply personal nature of the
community's loss.

"Everything we had here in Mumbai was destroyed," he said. "It takes time to go
and put the pieces back together."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday

India's Taj Mahal under threat of terror attack - police

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Lucknow, 24 November: The Uttar Pradesh Police in north India have alerted
security agencies deployed in the security of Taj Mahal at Agra following an
intelligence input over terror threat to the monument of love.

ADG [Additional Director-General] (Law and Order) A.K. Jain Tuesday [24
November] said that there is a regular input from the central agencies, and that
security agencies like the Agra police, CISF [Central Industrial Security Force]
and other agencies have been further alerted, while refusing to elaborate on the
input.

According to police sources, there was an alert from the IB [Intelligence
Bureau] on 20-21 November about threat to the monument from terror outfit LT
[Lashkar-i-Toiba].

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1538gmt 24 Nov 09

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday

National: Iraq war inquiry: Britain heard Bush team's drumbeat for regime change
loud and clear before 9/11: UK dismissed idea in 2001 as having no basis in law:
Terror attacks ended US support for 'containment'

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 949 words


Tony Blair's government knew that prominent members of the Bush administration
wanted to topple Saddam Hussein years before the invasion but initially
distanced itself from the prospect knowing it would be unlawful, it was
disclosed at the Iraq inquiry yesterday.

British intelligence also dismissed claims by elements in the US administration
that the Iraqi leader was linked to Osama bin Laden, it heard.

Evidence given at the opening day of the inquiry, chaired by the former top
civil servant Sir John Chilcot, painted a picture of a Whitehall slowly
realising the significance of George Bush's election in November 2000 on US
policy towards Iraq.

Even before the Bush administration came to power an article written by his then
national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, warned that "nothing will change"
in Iraq until Saddam was gone, Sir Peter Ricketts, a former chairman of the
joint intelligence committee (JIC) and now the Foreign Office's top official,
told the inquiry.

"We were aware of these drumbeats from Washington and internally we discussed
it. Our policy was to stay away from that part of the spectrum," added Sir
William Patey, then head of the Middle East department at the Foreign Office.

He revealed that in late 2001 - following the 9/11 attacks on the US - he asked
officials at the ministry to draw up an Iraq "options" paper, including regime
change. "We dismissed it at the time because it had no basis in law," Patey told
the inquiry.

"We quite clearly distanced ourselves in Whitehall from talk about regime
change," said Ricketts. Up to March 2002 "there was no increased appetite among
UK ministers for military action in Iraq," he added.

Simon Webb, a former policy director at the Ministry of Defence, who also gave
evidence yesterday, described the issue of regime change in Iraq during the
early days of the Bush administration as "the dog that did not bark. It
grizzled, but it did not bark".

The exchanges on opening day of the inquiry are significant in the light of
previously leaked documents which reveal that Blair told Bush in April 2002 -
nearly a year before the invasion of Iraq - that he would in principle support
military action "to bring about regime change".

A month earlier, David Manning, Downing Street foreign policy adviser at the
time, told Blair that he had advised Rice: "You (Blair) would not budge in your
support for regime change but you had to manage a press, a parliament, and a
public opinion which is very different than anything in the States."

Yet in July 2002, Lord Goldsmith, then attorney general, was still warning the
government that regime change was "not a legal basis for military action",
according to leaked documents.

Pressed yesterday by Sir Roderic Lyne, a member of the inquiry panel and a
former UK ambassador to Moscow, to explain the JIC's assessment of the threat
posed by Iraq at the time, Ricketts replied that it was a "major feature on the
agenda but by no means dominant". The Balkans, Sierra Leone - where British
forces were facing down rebels - and Afghanistan, were considered a higher
priority, though attempts by Saddam to get his hands on weapons of mass
destruction was "a continuing threat", he added. Patey said Iraq did not pose
"an immediate threat".

The Iraq inquiry also heard that any lingering US sympathy for Britain's policy
of "containment" of Saddam through UN sanctions quickly evaporated after 9/11.
The Pentagon, rather than the US state department, became the "dominant
instrument" in American foreign policy.

Moreover, voices in Washington were starting to link the Iraqi leader to
al-Qaida. Ricketts said Britain had no evidence showing Iraq was "linked in any
way to 9/11". He added: "We didn't have any such evidence."

Neocons in the Bush administration and the CIA claimed in the run-up to the
invasion that Saddam was linked to al-Qaida, a claim dismissed at the time by
MI6.

According to previously leaked documents, Ricketts, political director at the
Foreign Office at the time, described the US in 2002 as "scrambling to establish
a link between Iraq and al-Qaida", a link that was "so far frankly
unconvincing". He told Jack Straw, then foreign secretary: "We have to be
convincing that the threat is so serious/imminent that it is worth sending our
troops to die for. Regime change does not stack up. It sounds like a grudge
match between Bush and Saddam."

Lyne questioned why Britain and the US came to such different conclusions from
other countries about the dangers Iraq posed. He asked: "With the exception of
Kuwait, were the countries in the region banging on doors in London and
Washington saying 'We're very worried about Saddam Hussein, please can you do
something about him?'"

Patey replied: "I can't say my door was being knocked on very regularly."

One of the panel members, Lady Usha Prashar, later questioned whether official
policy towards Iraq was about disarmament or regime change. "It seems a
deliberate policy of ambiguity," she said. "I don't think that's true," replied
Ricketts.

The inquiry also questioned officials about the legality and effect of no-fly
zones imposed by the US and UK over northern and southern Iraq.

Gordon Brown's spokesman said last night the prime minister would "of course"
appear before the inquiry if he was asked, but so far he had not been.

Captions:

Condoleezza Rice wrote an essay in early 2000 warning that 'nothing will change'
in Iraq until Saddam Hussein is gone

Prominent figures in George Bush's administration were calling for regime change
in Iraq before his Camp David meeting with Tony Blair in February 2001
Photograph: Luke Fraza/AFP/EPA

Pauline Graham, grandmother of Gordon Gentle, protests on the inquiry's first
day

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Police criticised for botched arrests of 'al-Qa'ida cell';
Reference to wedding mistakenly interpreted as code for terror attack

BYLINE: Mark Hughes CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 773 words


A SOLITARY email referring to a wedding led police to believe a terror attack
was imminent and prompted the arrests of 11 suspects, it was revealed yesterday.

An independent report laid bare details of the arrests in the North-west of
England which ended with no charges being brought against any of the men
suspected of forming an al-Qa'ida cell in Britain. As well as thinking the
reference to a wedding was a code word for a terror attack, detectives arrested
one suspect simply because he worked for a hair products company and had access
to peroxide that could be used in bomb-making. The basis for the arrests of the
seven other men appears to be only that they knew each other.

The report by Lord Carlile, the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation,
concerns Operation Pathway, a series of terror-related raids which took place in
April.

It criticises Greater Manchester Police for failing properly to consult with the
Crown Prosecution Service before the operation, which had to be brought forward
after Britain's most senior anti-terrorist officer, Assistant Commissioner Bob
Quick of the Metropolitan Police, was photographed walking into Downing Street
carrying papers that showed details of the police plans.

Lord Carlile's report does not criticise Mr Quick specifically and says the fact
that the raids in Lancashire, Manchester and Merseyside were brought forward
made no difference to their outcome. However, the peer does suggest that "in
future, all persons attending meetings concerned with national security,
wherever they occur, should seek to avoid places where it is suspected cameras
may be present, in the absence of a clear decision that publicity would in no
way harm national security".

The document spells out how officers focused their investigation on Abid Naseer,
a Pakistani national who was studying computing at John Moores University in
Liverpool, believing he was the cell's "central figure" and had links to
al-Qa'ida.

They watched him meet some of the others at an internet cafe and discovered an
email which mentioned a nikkah, or Muslim marriage contract. Officers thought
the email meant a terror attack was imminent, but Lord Carlile concluded: "The
authorities had no specific information as to where the suspected terrorist
event was to occur, nor any precise knowledge as to its nature."

Nonetheless, police decided to arrest the 12 men they feared were involved in
the perceived plot. One was freed immediately but the others were held for
questioning. Because of Mr Quick's security lapse, the arrests took place in
daylight rather than at night as planned and, in many cases, in view of the
public.

Some of the men were seized just because they knew each other or had a tenuous
link to Mr Naseer. In the case of one suspect, Mohammed Rizwan Sharif, the
report says the detectives had "no particular material [evidence against him] in
addition to being part of the group".

When interviewed, some suspects refused to comment but others answered questions
about their links to the group. Of those who did speak, none knew anything about
the supposed wedding or had heard of "Nadia" - the girl the email suggested was
the bride. Officers found no explosives or chemicals at any address searched,
Lord Carlile's report confirms. In fact, the police found nothing apart from the
email and photos of "potentially iconic buildings" they considered to be
"evidence of attack reconnaissance".

Under questioning, the suspect Ahmad Faraz Khan admitted taking the photographs,
explaining that he was interested in architecture and Manchester's Trafford
Centre mall reminded him of Dubai.

The report also points out that some suspects complained about the length of
time they were held without being told why; under anti-terror laws, they were
kept in custody for nearly two weeks without charge and were denied bail.

Lord Carlile suggested that the law should be amended to allow terrorism
suspects to be bailed while investigations are carried out.

The evidence

Suspect's 'incriminating' email

* Hi Buddy,

I met with Nadia family and we both parties have agreed to conduct the Nikkah
after 15th and before 20th of this month. I have confirmed the dates from them
and they said you should be ready between these dates.

I am delighted that they have strong family values and we will have many guests
attending the party. I am sure Nadia was the right choice for me at this time
because I was getting older day by day LOL. Anyways, I wished you could be here
as well to enjoy the party. That's all from here, nothing new to write down. Pay
my love to Hassan and regards to all your family members.

Thanks, kind regards.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

Mumbai remembers dead a year on from terror attack

LENGTH: 166 words



HIGHLIGHT: PEOPLE gathered around Mumbai today, holding vigils, calling for
police reform and painting murals to remember the 166 killed in the deadly
terror attacks exactly a year ago.


The attacks paralysed Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay, for 60 hours when ten
Pakistan-based gunmen  attacked luxury hotels, a railway station and other
sites, as police and the military struggled for nearly three days to regain
control.

Seven men were charged in Pakistan yesterday over the assault.

Two non-governmental groups gathered 100 people to paint a stretch of wall in
south Mumbai, where the attacks were focused.

"We want to make sure 26-11 is not just forgotten," said Shaina NC, one of the
organisers.

Schoolgirls left red handprints on the yellow wall. A man left the words "Wake
up govt" in drippy red paint. A woman wrote: "We forget what they were dying
for."

Police, criticised for being poorly trained and under-armed, are using the
anniversary to showcase security improvements made over the last year.

Camouflaged armoured vehicles and yellow boats - part of Mumbai's £16.6 million
plan to beef up security - rumbled up Marine Drive yesterday, rehearsing for an
official parade today.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

A year on from Mumbai terror attack, city is fearful but defiant

BYLINE: Randeep Rameshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1089 words

ABSTRACT

Indian city will come to a halt to mark anniversary of massacre by Pakistani
militants that left nearly 180 dead

FULL TEXT

Ransley Santhumayor can no longer bear being in crowds: strange faces frighten
him. The 29-year-old telecoms manager recently sold his motorbike and moved back
to the family home. He wistfully recalls Saturday nights when he went clubbing.
Now he prefers to meet his friends at their homes.

His life changed for ever a year ago in the Mumbai terror attacks - 26/11 as it
is known in India. Shot and left for dead in the Leopold cafe, Santhumayor spent
two months in hospital while doctors attempted to rebuild his shattered right
leg.

Six operations later, he still has a 30cm (12in) steel rod jutting out from his
shin and cannot walk without crutches. "The doctors say I could be left with one
leg shorter than the other. But I am alive," he said.

The emotional scars are even slower to heal. "The gunmen did not kill me but
26/11 changed me. Crowds scare me and I have never been back to the Leopold. I
still think it could happen again. It's a day I want to forget."

That mixture of defiance and fear is common in India's financial and film
capital, a sprawling megacity of 19 million people which is still marked by the
trauma of the attacks.

Tomorrow, Mumbai will come to a halt as it marks the anniversary with a day of
prayer and commemoration for those who died.

Almost 180 people were killed - among them 28 foreigners from 10 countries - as
10 Pakistani militants launched a string of attacks across the city. For more
than 60 hours, the gunmen roamed freely, killing at random - much of it
broadcast on live television - while Indian security forces seemed powerless to
stop them. The terrorists sprayed the platforms of the main railway terminus
with bullets, attacked bars frequented by foreign backpackers and killed
hostages in five-star hotels and a Jewish centre.

One year on, the main train station is a blur of human motion. Touts offer
tourists day-long tours along the "terror trail" for 1,800 rupees (£23). One of
the first stops is the Leopold cafe, where the bullet holes and grenade blast
marks have been preserved as a badge of honour.

The owner, Farhang Jehani, who was in his office at the cafe during the attack,
said that sales were up 15% because of its new fame. "We were surprised, but
people started coming just to say that they want to support us and don't want
terror to close us down," he said.

The defining image of the attacks was that of the burning Taj hotel, whose
distinctive gothic red domes had been set ablaze by the gunmen. Now, the hotel
is being painstakingly restored and rooms in its 1935 heritage wing, where some
suites cost £1,000 a night, will be opened to the public in January.

Security has been stepped up, but not a single staff member has left their job
as a result of the violence, said Karambir Kang, the hotel's general manager. He
lost his wife and two sons in the attack, but decided to return to his job. "I
don't think I will ever heal but this is my family [now] and being here does
help me," he said.

The only place where normal service has not been resumed is Chabad House, the
Jewish centre where six people were killed, including Rabbi Gavriel Noach
Holtzberg and his wife, Rivka, who was five months pregnant. Their two-year-old
son, Moshe, survived after being rescued by his Indian nanny, Sandra Samuel.

Because the assailants had detailed knowledge of the layout of the centre,
police believe they or their accomplices had previously stayed there disguised
as Jewish travellers.

Rabbi Avraham Berkowitz, the director of the Chabad Mumbai Relief Fund, said:
"We will reopen it somewhere. We want it to serve the whole community in Mumbai
... to serve the poor. We will be raising $2.5m (£1.5m) to make sure it remains
a symbol of humanity and hope."

The one issue almost everyone agrees on is that Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, the
only terrorist captured alive, should be hanged.

Kasab, the baby-faced militant who was photographed striding through the railway
station with a machine gun, was eventually overpowered by a police constable
whom he had shot five times.

The other nine terrorists were killed by Indian commandos and their bodies
remain in the city morgue. Local Muslims said they would not let them be buried
in city cemeteries.

Kasab's trial began in May and has been a public relations triumph for India
over its arch-rival Pakistan. He has provided a wealth of information about the
operations of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a proscribed Islamist terrorist group, and how
Pakistani-based handlers planned and orchestrated the attack, staying in
constant telephone contact with the assailants throughout.

The trial, which is being heard by a single judge, is taking place in the
heavily fortified Arthur Road jail complex in central Mumbai. The prosecution
case against Kasab runs to 11,000 pages, and the Indian government has handed
Islamabad seven dossiers of evidence pointing to Pakistani involvement.

Today, Pakistani prosecutors charged seven men with planning and helping to
execute the attacks. They are all believed to be members of Lashkar-e-Taiba.

Pakistani security agencies also detained a former army officer after evidence
emerged that he was in contact with two men arrested in Chicago on terrorism
charges. According to US court documents, the two men had planned an attack on a
Danish newspaper and visited Mumbai and several other Indian cities to carry out
reconnaissances in the months before the November assault.

In Mumbai, 250 witnesses have given evidence in Kasab's trial. "I think we will
have a sentence passed within two to three months," said Ujwal Nigam, the public
prosecutor. "We have clinching evidence and I will be seeking the death
penalty."

Kasab, a thin, wan figure, has sat through the trial largely indifferent to the
testimony, although he has complained recently that his food might be laced with
poison. His lawyer Abbas Kazmi, appointed in the teeth of public hostility,
described Kasab as a "vulnerable young man" prone to mood swings. "We will mount
a strong defence," he said. If found guilty, Kasab would be entitled to an
appeal, but according to Narayan Rajadhyaksha, dean of Mumbai University's law
faculty, "public pressure would be immense to execute him".

"The last man hanged in India was a rapist who murdered in 2004. His appeal took
14 years but this case is totally different. Kasab's trial has proceeded very
quickly. If guilt is proved, I cannot imagine he would not be hanged," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

Mumbai marks anniversary of terror attacks

BYLINE: Randeep Rameshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 459 words

ABSTRACT

Security forces put on show of strength as city remembers 166 victims of
Pakistani militants

FULL TEXT

The first anniversary of  was marked today by a show of strength from the city's
security services and a series of ceremonies to remember the 166 victims killed
by 10 Pakistani Islamist gunmen.

Police marched from the Trident hotel in Mumbai, scene of a hostage drama a year
ago, and abseiled down prominent buildings. The security forces also paraded
armour-plated vehicles, machine guns and amphibious craft - part of a 1.3bn
rupee (£16m) upgrade approved after the security forces' ineffectual response .

Religious leaders and diplomats gathered for a candle-lit memorial service in
the city's synagogue.

"We will not let the terrorists deter us," said Rabbi Avraham Berkowitz, who is
in charge of rebuilding Chabad House, a Jewish centre where six people were
killed. "We will continue with the full faith in God that he will protect us."

The two luxury hotels attacked, the Taj and the Trident, both took out full-page
newspaper advertisements praising staff and thanking guests.

"We offer our heartfelt gratitude ... Today we take a step forward. Tomorrow
we'll take many more," ran the words.

In Delhi, parliament began with a two-minute silence and a resolution in the Lok
Sabha to wage war "on the forces of terrorism". The cricket Test between India
and Sri Lanka began with heads bowed as play was delayed to remember the dead.

The bloody raid by 10 terrorists held the world's attention for three days and
left 166 dead. Some experts said it marked a shift in strategy for terror
groups, especially the anti-India ones who had previously targeted locals.

Most evidence points to the Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)
being behind the attack. Targeting wealthy foreigners and Israeli rabbis would
signal a more global terror strategy for the group.

Western intelligence experts have since focused on Lashkar as a terrorist outfit
with ambitions "larger than the subcontinent".

Pakistan has been accused of turning a blind eye to Lashkar, which made its name
with suicide strikes against Indian soldiers in Kashmir.

But authorities in Islamabad have moved take action against the group. Seven
suspects, including a top leader of Lashkar, were indicted in a Pakistani
anti-terrorism court on earlier this week in connection with the attacks. They
all denied the charges.

Indian investigators have also pointed to two men detained by the FBI in Chicago
for their role in possibly locating targets in Mumbai.

Two Pakistanis, a father and his son, were arrested last week in Italy on
suspicion of having sent money to people implicated in the attacks and are being
held in custody.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

Mumbai anniversary: militant leader denies orchestrating terror attacks

BYLINE: Declan Walshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 619 words

ABSTRACT

Hafiz Saeed accuses India of 'vendetta' against him

FULL TEXT

The Pakistani militant leader accused of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks denied
any involvement and accused India of pursuing a "personal vendetta" against him.
The statement by the Lashkar e Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed was seen as a
ploy to deflect attention as India  that killed 166 people including Indian
commuters, western tourists and a Jewish family.

In a letter to a Pakistani journalist, which the Guardian obtained, Saeed said
he was "extremely saddened by the loss of innocent lives which occurred as a
result of the Mumbai attacks", but said that New Delhi had "deceitfully blamed"
him for them.

"My crime ... is that I expose India's two-faced policy of overtly appearing all
smiles and geniality while it conceals a dagger in its sleeve," he said.

Saeed's statement is likely to further fuel anger in India, where the government
has repeatedly demanded Pakistan take action against the Mumbai planners. Saeed,
a portly cleric with a henna-tinged beard, is top of the list.

The first anniversary of the assault on Mumbai was marked today by a show of
strength from the city's security services and a series of ceremonies. Police
marched from the Trident hotel in Mumbai, scene of a hostage drama a year ago,
and abseiled down prominent buildings. The security forces paraded armour-plated
vehicles, machine guns and amphibious craft - part of a 1.3bn rupee (£16m)
upgrade approved after the security forces' ineffectual response to last year's
attack.

Last December the UN security council designated Jamaat Ud Dawa (JuD), the
charity Saeed heads and which is considered a thinly-veiled front for LeT, as a
terrorist entity.

Experts say JuD has extensive charity operations including schools and hospitals
but also acts as a recruiting sergeant for its militant wing. "They are two
sides of the same coin," said Stephen Tankel, an academic and author of a
forthcoming book on LeT.

Tankel said he was not surprised Saeed was denying a role in Mumbai. "Lashkar e
Taiba kills civilians but denies doing so. That's their default position. In
that sense it is not like al-Qaida, which turns itself inside out trying to find
theological justifications."

Islamabad appeared to make a concession to Indian demands yesterday when an
anti-terrorism court started a prosecution of LeT's operational commander,
Zaki-ur Rehman Lakhvi, and six other senior militants, for their alleged part in
the attacks.

But Saeed, considered the group's spiritual leader, remains at large,
underlining suspicions that LeT retains support from powerful quarters in the
military intelligence services.

LeT was founded with covert military support in the early 1990s as a means of
attacking Indian troops stationed in Kashmir, and was considered Pakistan's
disciplined jihadist proxy. In recent years the group has expanded its agenda.

LeT militants have been captured in Iraq; since 2006 it has despatched packets
of fighters into Afghanistan; and the Mumbai attacks represented its first foray
into the arena of international terrorism.

Today's letter was sent to Hamid Mir, a prominent television anchor who said he
met Saeed in Lahore last week. "He said he couldn't do an interview so he would
send his thoughts on paper," he said.

In the letter Saeed appeared to hone his justification for violence. The rules
of jihad "do not include indiscriminate killing of everyone, everywhere", he
said.

But in a perverse logic, he said the restrictions on his charity meant that "if
a few hundred families were affected [by the Mumbai attacks] in India, at least
5,000 families in Pakistan have had to endure momentous suffering".

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

India: Mumbai marks 26/11 attacks with prayers, defiance and tours along the '
terror trail': One year on, city still bears the scars of killing spree Death
penalty demanded for baby-faced militant

BYLINE: Randeep Ramesh Mumbai

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1051 words


Ransley Santhumayor can no longer bear being in crowds: strange faces frighten
him. The 29-year-old telecoms manager recently sold his motorbike and moved back
to the family home. He wistfully recalls Saturday nights when he went clubbing.
Now he prefers to meet his friends at their homes.

His life changed for ever a year ago in the Mumbai terror attacks - 26/11 as it
is known in India. Shot and left for dead in the Leopold cafe, Santhumayor spent
two months in hospital while doctors attempted to rebuild his shattered right
leg.

Six operations later, he still has a 30cm (12in) steel rod jutting out from his
shin and cannot walk without crutches. "The doctors say I could be left with one
leg shorter than the other. But I am alive," he said.

The emotional scars are even slower to heal. "The gunmen did not kill me but
26/11 changed me. Crowds scare me and I have never been back to the Leopold. I
still think it could happen again. It's a day I want to forget."

That mixture of defiance and fear is common in India's financial and film
capital, a sprawling megacity of 19 million people which is still marked by the
trauma of the attacks.

Today, Mumbai will come to a halt as it marks the anniversary with a day of
prayer and commemoration for those who died.

Almost 180 people were killed - among them 28 foreigners from 10 countries - as
10 Pakistani militants launched a string of attacks across the city. For more
than 60 hours, the gunmen roamed freely, killing at random - much of it
broadcast on live television - while Indian security forces seemed powerless to
stop them. The terrorists sprayed the platforms of the main railway terminus
with bullets, attacked bars frequented by foreign backpackers and killed
hostages in five-star hotels and a Jewish centre.

One year on, the main train station is a blur of human motion. Touts offer
tourists day-long tours along the "terror trail" for 1,800 rupees (£23). One of
the first stops is the Leopold cafe, where the bullet holes and grenade blast
marks have been preserved as a badge of honour.

The owner, Farhang Jehani, who was in his office at the cafe during the attack,
said that sales were up 15% because of its new fame. "We were surprised, but
people started coming just to say that they want to support us and don't want
terror to close us down," he said.

The defining image of the attacks was that of the burning Taj hotel, whose
distinctive gothic red domes had been set ablaze by the gunmen. Now, the hotel
is being painstakingly restored and rooms in its 1935 heritage wing, where some
suites cost £1,000 a night, will be opened to the public in January.

Security has been stepped up, but not a single staff member has left their job
as a result of the violence, said Karambir Kang, the hotel's general manager. He
lost his wife and two sons in the attack, but decided to return to his job. "I
don't think I will ever heal but this is my family (now) and being here does
help me," he said.

The only place where normal service has not been resumed is Chabad House, the
Jewish centre where six people were killed, including Rabbi Gavriel Noach
Holtzberg and his wife, Rivka, who was five months pregnant. Their two-year-old
son, Moshe, survived after being rescued by his Indian nanny, Sandra Samuel.

Because the assailants had detailed knowledge of the layout of the centre,
police believe they or their accomplices had previously stayed there disguised
as Jewish travellers.

Rabbi Avraham Berkowitz, the director of the Chabad Mumbai Relief Fund, said:
"We will reopen it somewhere. We want it to serve the whole community in Mumbai
. . . to serve the poor. We will be raising $2.5m (£1.5m) to make sure it
remains a symbol of humanity and hope."

The one issue almost everyone agrees on is that Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, the
only terrorist captured alive, should be hanged.

Kasab, the baby-faced militant who was photographed striding through the railway
station with a machine gun, was eventually overpowered by a police constable
whom he had shot five times.

The other nine terrorists were killed by Indian commandos and their bodies
remain in the city morgue. Local Muslims said they would not let them be buried
in city cemeteries.

Kasab's trial began in May and has been a public relations triumph for India
over its arch-rival Pakistan. He has provided a wealth of information about the
operations of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a proscribed Islamist terrorist group, and how
Pakistani-based handlers planned and orchestrated the attack, staying in
constant telephone contact with the assailants throughout.

The trial, which is being heard by a single judge, is taking place in the
heavily fortified Arthur Road jail complex in central Mumbai. The prosecution
case against Kasab runs to 11,000 pages, and the Indian government has handed
Islamabad seven dossiers of evidence pointing to Pakistani involvement.

Yesterday, Pakistani prosecutors charged seven men with planning and helping to
execute the attacks. They are all believed to be members of Lashkar-e-Taiba.

Pakistani security agencies also detained a former army officer after evidence
emerged that he was in contact with two men arrested in Chicago on terrorism
charges. According to US court documents, the two men had planned an attack on a
Danish newspaper and visited Mumbai and several other Indian cities to carry out
reconnaissances in the months before the November assault.

In Mumbai, 250 witnesses have given evidence in Kasab's trial. "I think we will
have a sentence passed within two to three months," said Ujwal Nigam, the public
prosecutor. "We have clinching evidence and I will be seeking the death
penalty."

Kasab, a thin, wan figure, has sat through the trial largely indifferent to the
testimony, although he has complained recently that his food might be laced with
poison. His lawyer Abbas Kazmi described Kasab as a "vulnerable young man" prone
to mood swings. "We will mount a strong defence," he said. If found guilty,
Kasab would be entitled to an appeal.

Captions:

The Taj hotel (above) was set ablaze by the militants. Only one - Mohammed Ajmal
Amir Kasab (below) - was captured Main photograph: Indranil Mukherjee/AFP

Ransley Santhumayor (left) cannot bear to go back to the Leopold cafe where he
was shot, but its owner, Farhang Jehani (right), says sales are up 15%

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Mumbai terror attack charges;
World briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 61 words


PAKISTAN: Seven men were charged in Pakistan yesterday over last year's Mumbai
terror attacks. The anti-terrorism court hearing came on the eve of the first
anniversary of the attacks on hotels, a train station and other targets that
terrorised the city for three days and killed 166 people. The seven suspects
pleaded not guilty to helping plan and execute the attacks

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                               Independent Extra

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Back in the hot seat;
Last Night's Television THIS WORLD: CAN OBAMA SAVE THE PLANET? BBC2 INSIDE
SPORT: MIND GAMES - DEPRESSION IN SPORT BBC1 TERROR ATTACK: MUMBAI MORE4

BYLINE: Tom Sutcliffe

SECTION: INDEPENDENT LIFE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 839 words


Can Obama Save the Planet?, Justin Rowlatt's film for the This World strand, was
essentially about political inertia. Is it possible to accelerate a nation as
massive as the United States into action over climate control, particularly when
very powerful lobby groups are hauling on the handbrake with all the force they
can muster? But it also contained a vividly repulsive demonstration of the
physical principle of inertia, one which I'm happy to tell you has already been
uploaded to YouTube (you can find it by searching Pig Food Ecological
Disaster!). Rowlatt had gone to visit a Las Vegas pig farmer who feeds his stock
on the leftover waste from casino buffets, confident that he would find there a
spectacular image of American excess. The pig farmer, who surely knew more than
he was letting on, let Rowlatt drive the processed slurry the short distance to
the feeding troughs, a journey that offered no challenges until it came time to
pull-up, at which point Rowlatt discovered the messy way that brakes are
connected to a vehicle and not to its load. It was like watching a dump truck
projectile vomit, and a startling amount of the steaming slop appeared to shoot
straight through the window into Rowlatt's lap. I don't think he's going to have
any trouble getting his dry-cleaning expenses cleared.

That scene wasn't untypical of a knowingly picaresque programme, which began
with Rowlatt ice-fishing on a Michigan lake (with an ordinary Joe who believes
in global warming) and ended with him in Washington, pinning down a coal
lobbyist over a fraudulent letter-writing campaign that had helped persuade
Congress to vote down a Carbon Cap-and-Trade Bill. On the way, he'd met Daryl
Hannah on a train (an unordinary Jill who also believes in global warming) and
been subjected to a kind of group- hate exercise as the guest of a Virginia
shock jock (who, along with all of his listeners, believes that global warming
is a fantasy expressly designed to usher in the Soviet States of America). It
was broadly a depressing account of a nation profoundly conservative in every
sense but the ecological one - large numbers of its citizens committed to the
view that self-restraint is inherently un-American, and a lot more finding it
hard to imagine how they might consume less. There were some intriguing little
shafts of light, though. In Texas, Rowlatt visited the world's largest wind
farm, a robustly yee-haw enterprise that had been partly encouraged into being
by policies passed by George W Bush. And in California, he discovered a state
far in advance of many countries in terms of renewable energy sources and
management of consumption. By the end, it was clear that the sclerosis of
Washington politics, arteries clogged by lobbying millions and local interests,
was unlikely to deliver radical action. But it didn't seem inconceivable that
the American people may yet bypass their own democracy and take action
themselves.

Mind Games: Depression in Sport, an Inside Sport special, hovered between
presenting its subjects as representative types and special cases. On one hand,
the argument went, people like Marcus Trescothick and Frank Bruno were human
just like you and me, and their sporting fame merely brought into the light of
day a problem more often endured in the shadows. Their prowess and skill hadn't
exempted them from the law of averages when it came to mental illness. On the
other hand, there were contributors here - including some of the sportsmen
themselves - who seemed to argue that participation in top-level sport could
only exacerbate a vulnerability to breakdown. In other words, it wasn't that
they had fallen ill despite being champions but possibly because they were
champions. Wherever the exact truth lies, it was an intriguing and useful
programme, most of all, perhaps, in tackling the popular misconception that
because the symptoms are the wrong kind of mental state, the disorder might be
susceptible to the right kind of mental state. Snap out of It therapy simply
doesn't work, and the sight of various sporting heroes calmly explaining why may
well persuade less well-known sufferers from seeking out more effective
treatments.

Terror Attack: Mumbai couldn't really add a lot to Dispatches' excellent recent
documentary about the same event, though its survivor accounts were completely
gripping. If there was a distinctive aspect to it it was the concentration on
technology. Mobile phones and BlackBerrys became "... the key to surviving
Mumbai", the voiceover claimed at one point. Given that the terrorists actually
discovered the hiding place of a large group of guests after one of them gave it
away during a mobile-phone interview that claim seemed debatable, to put it
mildly. But that the devices were implicated in the torment was undeniable. "I'm
completely safe on the 19th floor," one woman reassured her daughter in Canada.
The next thing her daughter heard on the live coverage was that that was where
the terrorists had last been seen.

t.sutcliffe@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IE


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

North West Euro MP: Mumbai terror attack changed my life

BYLINE: Tyrone Marshall

SECTION: SIMONSTONE NEWS (SIMONSTONE)

LENGTH: 427 words


A North West Euro MP has recalled the life-changing moment he stared a
gun-wielding terrorist in the face and saw 12 people shot dead.

Sajjad Karim, the Conservative MEP who lives in Simonstone, in the Ribble
Valley, and was brought up in Burnley, said the day he came face to face with
the terrorists has changed him forever.

A year ago today Mr Karim was in the Taj Mahal hotel, in Mumbai, India, when 10
gunmen stormed the prestigious building.

The siege lasted nearly three days and left 174 people dead, including nine of
the gunmen, with the only survivor currently on trial in India.

"I don't think you can go through that experience and not change," said Mr
Karim.

"I appreciate everything much more now and have a greater perspective.

"Family events like weddings and birthdays are so precious now, and you realise
that things you used to place so much importance on actually aren't important at
all, at the end of day I am still here and my family is still here."

Mr Karim, who has served as North West MEP since 2004, had just checked into the
hotel when the attack happened.

He fled towards a rear exit but then came face to face with a gunman, who shot
dead 12 people as he fired towards Mr Karim and people around him.

After that he barricaded himself in a restaurant with other hotel guests.

He said: "I will always remember the face of the terrorist I saw. He can only
have been around 19 and he was totally emotionless.

"He had lost touch with humanity and was just expressionless as he fired at
people and killed people.

"I will never understand how he could get like that, it is beyond belief.

"The second thing I will always remember is hiding in the restaurant.

"I remember a German man had a laptop with him and we were checking news on
there and it mentioned I was in the hotel.

"I just had to find a corner to hide, I didn't want to tell the other people in
there."

Mr Karim spoke to the Lancashire Telegraph from the Hajj in Saudi Arabia, an
annual pilgrimage for Muslims to Mecca.

He said: "It is very poignant being here today a year on from the attack.

"I realise how lucky, how bloody lucky I really am to have survived when so many
others didn't."

Today hundreds of people gathered around Mumbai, holding vigils, calling for
police reform and painting murals to remember those killed in the deadly terror
attacks exactly a year ago.

Diplomats from Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Israel, Italy and the US lit
candles in memory of people from their countries who died.

Muslim, Christian and Parsi leaders from India lit candles in memory of the
Indian dead.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     November 26, 2009 Thursday 5:10 PM BST

COMPENSATION HINT FOR TERROR ATTACK BRITONS

BYLINE: Ben Padley, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 332 words


The Government was today urged to close a loophole in the law which compensates
British victims of terrorist attacks but not if they are injured abroad.

Labour former minister Ian McCartney (Makerfield) called on ministers to ensure
Britons injured overseas would be protected.

He was speaking in the Commons on the anniversary of the terrorist attacks in
Mumbai in which 166 people, including one Briton, were killed.

Commons Leader Harriet Harman said ministers were involved in discussions at an
``advanced stage'' and were considering the issue.

The subject was highlighted again today by the campaign by the most seriously
injured Briton, Will Pike, 29, for financial help.

Mr Pike faces being confined to a wheelchair for life after he broke his back
when he fell three stories while trying to abseil down knotted sheets to escape
from a window at the Taj Mahal Hotel.

He found out he was not covered by the compensation scheme set up after the July
7 2005 bombings in London to help all victims of terror attacks on UK soil.

Today Mr McCartney asked Ms Harman: ``Will you clarify that the Government
intend to table amendments to the Crime and Security Bill, which we will
consider in the new year, to introduce a compensation scheme for the victims of
Mumbai, Bali, Sharm el-Sheikh and other international terrorist atrocities
against British citizens, and to close the loophole that disbars them from
compensation?

``The Government gave a promise.

``Will you make it clear today, of all days, as it is the first anniversary of
the Mumbai atrocities, that that will be done?''

Ms Harman told him: ``It is a very serious issue, and we are at an advanced
stage in considering the options for including provision for a compensation
scheme for victims of overseas terrorism in the Crime and Security Bill.

``Compensation is available for victims of terrorism in this country, but you
are raising the case of victims of terrorism abroad, and the gap in the system.
We are taking steps to deal with that.''

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

International: Militant leader denies plotting Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Islamabad and Randeep Ramesh, Delhi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 411 words


The Pakistani militant leader accused of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks
yesterday denied any involvement and accused India of pursuing a "personal
vendetta" against him. The statement by the Lashkar e Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz
Saeed was seen as a ploy to deflect attention as India commemorated the first
anniversary of the atrocity that killed 166 people including Indian commuters,
western tourists and a Jewish family.

In a letter to a Pakistani journalist, which the Guardian obtained, Saeed said
he was "extremely saddened by the loss of innocent lives which occurred as a
result of the Mumbai attacks", but said that New Delhi had "deceitfully blamed"
him for them.

"My crime . . . is that I expose India's two-faced policy of overtly appearing
all smiles and geniality while it conceals a dagger in its sleeve," he said.

Saeed's statement is likely to further fuel anger in India, where the government
has repeatedly demanded Pakistan take action against the Mumbai planners. Saeed,
a portly cleric with a henna-tinged beard, is top of the list.

The first anniversary of the assault on Mumbai was marked yesterday by a show of
strength from the city's security services and a series of ceremonies. Police
marched from the Trident hotel in Mumbai, scene of a hostage drama a year ago,
and abseiled down prominent buildings. The security forces paraded armour-plated
vehicles, machine guns and amphibious craft - part of a 1.3bn rupee (£16m)
upgrade approved after the security forces' ineffectual response to last year's
attack.

Last December the UN security council designated Jamaat Ud Dawa (JuD), the
charity Saeed heads and which is considered a thinly-veiled front for LeT, as a
terrorist entity.

Experts say JuD has extensive charity operations including schools and hospitals
but also acts as a recruiting sergeant for its militant wing. "They are two
sides of the same coin," said Stephen Tankel, an academic and author of a
forthcoming book on LeT.

Islamabad appeared to make a concession to Indian demands on Wednesday when an
anti-terrorism court started a prosecution of LeT's operational commander,
Zaki-ur Rehman Lakhvi, and six other senior militants, for their alleged part in
the attacks.

But Saeed, considered the group's spiritual leader, remains at large,
underlining suspicions that LeT retains support from powerful quarters in the
military intelligence services.

Captions:

Candles outside Mumbai's Taj Mahal hotel to mark the killings a year ago

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

MAN ESCAPES GUN ATTACK ON DOORSTEP;
Shooting target reveals his terror after the third attack

BYLINE: ANNE-MARIE SENIOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 490 words


A CROSLAND MOOR man has spoken of his terror after a masked man fired shots at
him as he smoked a cigarette on his doorstep.

Now the frightened 22-year-old is calling for better police protection after
claiming it was the THIRD attempt on his life in just eight months.

The man - who does not want to be named - believes the incidents are part of a
vendetta against him.

The shooting happened as he was smoking a cigarette outside his Moorside Avenue
home at around 8pm on Wednesday night.

The man spotted a masked gunman walking under a streetlight. He managed to flee
inside his house just as the attacker reached into his pocket and pulled out the
weapon.

Loud gunshots were then fired at his front door, as the man hid upstairs.

Luckily the victim's mother and sister were not home at the time.

Yesterday, part of the quiet terraced street was cordoned off as police forensic
teams investigated the shooting.

They recovered a number of bullet casings from the scene.

The man, who was staying with family, said: "I was sitting on the doorstep
having a cigarette when I just saw this guy near the lamp-post at the end of my
drive.

"He had his hood up and was wearing a balaclava to cover his face.

"I saw him pull something out of his pocket.

"I quickly went inside, locked the doors and went upstairs.

"All I remember was hearing the shots being fired. I never want to hear that
noise again."

The shooting comes after the man survived a serious machete attack as he sat in
his car in July, leaving him needing 40 stitches in his legs.

A Huddersfield man was charged following the incident, but the case was dropped
due to a lack of evidence.

The 22-year-old was also subjected to an assault in his car while he waited at
traffic lights on St John's Road in March, but no charges were ever brought.

Now he is calling on police to take action. He said: "The police and Crown
Prosecution Service have failed to do their job.

"I am really worried about my life. I thought I was going to die the other
night. I have got a life ahead of me."

A neighbour - who did not wish to be named - said: "I didn't hear anything and
am surprised because they are a lovely family.

"This is a quiet street. We don't get any trouble.

"I'm not too worried because it was obviously a targeted attack by the way he
came up to the house. I don't think it is something the street should be too
worried about."

A West Yorkshire police spokesman said: "We received a call about 8.25pm on
Wednesday to a report of shots being fired at a house in Moorside Avenue,
Huddersfield.

"No-one was hurt during this incident but we have officers from the Huddersfield
neighbourhood policing team stepping up reassurance patrols in the area, talking
to residents. "Forensic examinations are taking place at the scene today and we
are appealing for any witnesses.

"They should contact police on 0845 6060606 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555 111."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  GUNFIRE: Police on duty in Moorside Avenue, Crosland Moor,
(PW261109Ashooting)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

Mumbai remembers victims of terror attack that killed 166

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 73 words


Activists fear the security upgrades are not enough to prevent a repeat of the
attack that laid siege to luxury hotels, turned a train station into a scene of
carnage and paralysed India's commercial heart for 60 hours.

The anniversary of the attack was commemorated across Mumbai with candlelight
vigils, prayer meetings, art projects, discussion groups, a blood drive,
political speeches, music concerts and soul-searching newspaper articles.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan article asks India to stop "blame game" over terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1243 words


Text of article by Asghar Ali Shad headlined "US trip, terrorism, and India"
published by Pakistani newspaper Nawa-i Waqt on 27 November

The Indian prime minister leveled allegation against Pakistan only 48 hours
before his US trip that further terror acts are being planned against India on
the Pakistani soil. Probably, for the first time, the Pakistani Foreign Ministry
and Foreign Office spokesman have taken strong notice and retaliated in an
appropriate manner that India should stop this blame game against Pakistan and
that if it is not serious in bilateral talks, it should not waste Pakistan's
time because Pakistan is not desperate for talks. According to analysts, talks
and negotiations are the best way for the resolution of issues; however, if the
talks are directionless and only one party seems to desire and make efforts in
this regard, the situation becomes a show.

It is no more a secret that the Delhi Government is hell-bent on vilifying
Pakistan in the entire world under the cover of any terror incident that occurs
over there, and efforts to divert the attention of the entire world and
particularly of the United States are also under way. Pakistan has been the
major target of terrorism, and Indian intelligence agencies are openly
sponsoring this terrorism. However, the Indian rulers are determined to act up
on the maxim of "commit foul and attribute it to others" to cover up their
negative activities. Therefore, the "Jagran," a Hindi daily, which has great
publication writes in its copy published on 16 November: "India is fully trying
to hoodwink Iran and the United States so that it can spread this impression in
the entire world that Pakistan is the root cause of all evils." The Indian prime
minister has launched his new propaganda campaign against Pakistan and its
security agencies in his US visit, and at the same time, the first anniversary
of the Mumbai terror attacks is being celebrated on 26 November. The incident of
violence, which took place in the capital city of Maharashtra in 2008 deserves
maximum condemnation. Such a inhuman act cannot be legitimate in any way.

This incident further added fuel to fire on the ongoing tension in South Asia.
The ongoing talks between India and Pakistan also suffered serious setback and
the process of talks has not yet been resumed. The Pakistani government and
public has done their best in this regard to convince India that it should look
at this tragedy in the perspective that a wave of terror has been going on in
the entire world for last several years and nonstate actors are following the
policy of doing every possible effort to fan extremism. However, the Indian
rulers have suspended the dialogue process because of this incident and have
started such a propaganda campaign of baseless allegations against Pakistani
Government, people, and security agencies on the international level, which is
condemnable. The impartial segments have voiced their concern that some Western
powers, including the United States, are also playing their part in this
campaign unleashed by India. Such a blind move of avoiding reality is not at all
welcome.

However, some moderate and humanistic intellectuals of India are performing
their duties well in this regard. Regarding the anniversary of the Mumbai
tragedy, an Indian journalist "Rajni Kant" said that there was no doubt that
what happened on 26 November 2008 was regrettable. However, one-sided terror
acts have been taking place inside Pakistan continuously in which Pakistani
public and security agencies are being targeted. If Pakistan levels charges
against the Delhi Government, it will be entirely rejected.

In short, whether we agree to this opinion of the Indian intellectuals or
entirely differ with it, the following facts are difficult to reject with a
single stroke of a pen:

(1) There is no doubt that the a tragedy in India took place on 26 November 2008
when votes were to be cast for state elections in several states of India like
Delhi, Rajasthan, occupied Kashmir [Indian-administered Kashmir], and Madhya
Pradesh. The Congress reaped several electoral benefits from that tragedy and
unexpectedly won a great majority in the elections in Delhi, Rajasthan, and
occupied Kashmir.

(2) Colonel Prohat of the Indian Army and several other military officers were
found involved in terrorism against Muslims and Pakistan during those days. Even
the vicious conspiracy of torching Samjhauta Express by those Indian military
officers in February 2007 also came to light. However, the Mumbai attacks
shelved this vicious role of the Indian Army under the carpet.

(3) Hemant Karkare, a top Indian police officer and chief of the Indian
Anti-Terrorist Squad, who was the central character of exposing Hindu terrorist
group, was killed as a result of the target killing during Mumbai incidents. The
widow of that courageous and humane officer has raised several questions over
the Indian role in this regard. Overall, this incident has discouraged the
humanistic segments present in the Indian Army and other institutions so much so
that they got terrified.

(4) Incidents happening later on proved that the terror elements active in
Pakistan are being used by the Indian intelligence agencies. Therefore, this
guess seems right that the Mumbai incident could have been perpetrated by some
Pakistani elements on the Indian behest.

(5) President Obama has already said in the United States before elections that
he will make efforts for the resolution of the Kashmir issue in case he
succeeds. However, this incident helped in changing the thinking of President
Obama.

(6) India engineered a full-scale wave of terror in Baluchistan and Federally
Administered Tribal Areas [FATA] under the cover of this incident, which is
still going on.

(7) Some segments of the international public opinion are openly supporting the
allegations of India and Israel against Pakistani nuclear assets and security
forces.

(8) Certain campaigns have been launched against Pakistan with the aim to create
a kind of uncertainty in the country and that this has swelled up Pakistan's
economic woes.

(9) A well-thought-out effort was made to decrease the importance of sacrifices
rendered by the Pakistani security forces for the elimination of global terror.

(10) The political and diplomatic Indian campaign of creating doubts regarding
every field of Pakistan was somewhat reinforced by this incident.

(11) The Congress won with a heavy mandate in the general elections because of
its aggressive diplomatic campaign against Pakistan following the Mumbai
tragedy.

(12) The Kashmir issue was also clouded at the international level for the time
being although the thinking of getting freedom from India in occupied Kashmir
was surprisingly reinforced in August and September 2008.

It can be said after this analysis that the international public opinion and
influential global powers should devise a comprehensive and concrete strategy
regarding global and regional peace without being influence by the unilateral
Indian propaganda after the incidents of 26 November 2008 and the situation
thereafter. All ordinary and special people of this country will have to devise
a line of action by coming out of this atmosphere of uncertainty and thinking in
a constructive manner. There must be some solution to this complication of
circumstances. I am thinking over this issue.

Source: Nawa-i Waqt, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 0000 GMT 27 Nov 09, p 11

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Conductor recalls day of Indian terror attack;
A year after barricading himself in a Mumbai hotel room during extremist
attacks, Devon conductor Brian Northcott said he is now always alive to the
threat of terrorism.

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 293  words


Twelve months ago the 65-year-old was in the Indian city to adjudicate music
exams.

The conductor of  Exeter Symphony Orchestra locked himself in his room as the
terrorists struck.

Mr Northcott, a father of two from Lympstone, East Devon, saw troops surround
Mumbai's  luxury Taj Mahal Palace hotel after terrorists stormed  10 areas in
the city.

More than 170 died, including one Briton, and 239 were injured in the course of
the attacks.

This week, from the Thai capital of Bangkok where he is combining a holiday with
adjudicating another exam, he said: "There  is always the thought that we are
never far from the possibility of a cruel and senseless attack.

"It hadn't  really struck me that the Mumbai anniversary would arrive while I
was yet again in the Far East.

"Once my work got under way I was very aware  that this time last year I was
making my first visit to India - one that would forever live with me and also
make me very much closer to the people of Mumbai.

"It was further hammered home when I communicated with my immediate boss over
his impending visit to Bangkok this time around and how we had been together
last year when the tragedy occurred.  Several emails later we reminded ourselves
of the anniversary.

"My closeness to some of the Mumbai folk was cemented when I was asked to return
in April. I conducted the Bombay Chamber Orchestra during a concert in memory of
those who died."

Despite what happened Mr Northcott remains  defiant.

"Nothing yet would stop me travelling for the job I really love doing," he said.

"No-one knows when  'the call' will come; when it does there is nothing one can
do about it.

"As I sit here, a year on from the attacks,  it is with a sense of relief that
all is quiet on the Eastern front - at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Russia says terror attack most likely cause of train crash

BYLINE: Luke Hardingguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 622 words

ABSTRACT

Bomb may have caused derailment which killed at least 26 people, authorities say


FULL TEXT

Russian investigators today said that terrorism was the most likely cause of
last night's devastating train crash in which at least 26 people were killed and
nearly 100 injured when their luxury express from Moscow to St Petersburg
derailed.

The head of Russia's railways, Vladimir Yakunin, said he believed an
"unidentified device" had exploded under the train, sending three carriages
packed with passengers hurtling off the rails.

"As far as theories go... our main version is that this was an explosion of an
unknown device, by unknown individuals. Put simply, it was an act of terror,"
Yakunin said today at the crash scene.

The Nevsky Express, carrying 661 passengers, derailed at 9.34pm yesterday, close
to the village of Uglovka, 200 miles (320km) north of Moscow. This afternoon
Russia's health minister, Tatyana Golikova, warned the death toll could rise,
with 18 people still unaccounted for.

So far investigators have not made clear who they believe might have been
responsible. But Yakunin said the incident was "analogous" to another derailment
on the same line three years ago, also involving the Nevsky Express, in which 19
people were injured.

Russian prosecutors blamed the earlier derailment on Chechen extremists, who
have been fighting an on-off war against the Russian state for two decades.
There are daily attacks on security forces in the republics of Ingushetia,
Chechnya and Dagestan.

Witnesses described how they heard a "tremendous crash" as the train derailed.
"At exactly 9.30pm, 15 minutes after we had passed Bologoye, we heard an
almighty crash," survivor Boris Gruzd told the radio station Ekho Moskvy. "It
seemed to me as if we had lost a wheel or smashed through some kind of obstacle.
I didn't hear any explosion," he said.

Gruzd said the train driver braked hard. The passengers then spent 30 minutes
unaware that the last three carriages of the 14-carriage train had been thrown
from the tracks.

"The first wagon numerically was 1.5-2km away from the rest of the train. The
second had completely flipped over. The third had come off the rails, but was
near the main part of the train and was still standing vertically. As far as I
know nobody from this wagon was seriously hurt."

Gruzd said it was extremely difficult to reach passengers trapped in the mangled
carriages, with rescuers peering into the gloom and using flashlights.

President Dmitry Medvedev called for calm over the incident. "We need there to
be no chaos, because the situation is tense as it is," he told Russian TV.

Government officials last night said investigators had found a 1 metre crater
under the rails. Reuters reported today that its reporters at the scene had been
unable to see it. Earlier, Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials
as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a record of
serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.

According to the radio station Echo of Moscow, a far-right group opposed to
migrants from the former Soviet republics of central Asia has claimed
responsibility for the crash, which has delayed 27,000 passengers.

The Kremlin is likely to blame Islamist extremists waging a guerrilla campaign
in the north Caucasus. Rebel fighters have carried out numerous attacks in
recent months, including suicide bombings, in an apparent attempt to establish
an Islamic caliphate in the region.

Russian prosecutors believe Pavel Kosolapov, an ex-solider and former associate
of the late Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev, masterminded the previous
derailment. He is on the run but two residents of Ingushetia have been charged
with helping to carry out the attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

The moment of terror as jewel raiders attack

BYLINE: SAMANTHA PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 424 words


THESE CCTV pictures show the moment armed robbers raided a jewellery store in
Merseyside.

Up to pounds 100,000 worth of diamond rings, bracelets, earrings and necklaces
were stolen in the attack on Hallmark jewellers, in Pensby Road, Heswall, at
4.55pm on Thursday.

The sophisticated gang, who used a sledgehammer and drill to smash through the
front window, wore white protective suits, balaclavas and gloves in the attack,
leaving no forensic evidence.

Store owner Jan Foley, who pulled diamond jewellery from their clutches from the
other side of the glass, today told the ECHO of the dread she felt when she
watched the footage.

She said: "The police told me they believed the gang were armed - and not just
with the sledgehammer and drill.

"Watching the CCTV back was so frightening. When they hit us, I ran straight to
the window and started pulling the stock back and throwing it on the floor
before they could get it.

"I managed to save some of the stock, but unfortunately they still got away with
a lot.

WATCH "Looking back now, I probably should not have gone to the window, but at
the time the adrenaline kicked in."

See CCTV of the liverpool echo.

Ms Foley said she even thought about running outside, but was glad she did not
now.

/videos She added: "The police put the robbery at category one and are looking
at patterns of similar robberies in Merseyside.

"It was not the first time we have been targeted. We had two incidents this
year.

"Every other time we were able to get the stock back - I have chased people
around Heswall before now. But this is devastating.

"We are a family-run business, we started from nothing and built up over the
years.

"The timing of the raid was awful, just before Christmas. A customer came into
the shop today to buy a ring she had seen, but it was one of the ones which was
stolen.

"We will not let the raid affect us and the shop has been really busy. The
displays will be back in the window by Monday morning.

"We are working around the clock to clean the jewellery which was caught up in
the raid because there are tiny pieces of glass everywhere."

The stolen black car the gang used was found burned out in Cornelius Drive,
Pensby, 15 minutes later.

IT The raiders even threw a footage raid at stinger behind them to try and slow
down anybody who may have followed.

co.uk Ms Foley added: "If anyone is offered diamond goods, they should contact
us because I can identify every piece."

. Anyone with information should call 0151-777 2264 or Crimestoppers 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DEVASTATED: Jan Fowley, from Hallmark jewellers, Heswall, as workmen
repair the window after armed raiders stole diamond rings Picture: JASON ROBERTS
TERROR: CCTV footage of armed raid of Hallmark jewellers, in Heswall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                    November 28, 2009 Saturday 10:50 PM GMT

Russia train crash a terrorist attack

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 115 words



HIGHLIGHT: The head of Russia's intelligence service has said that a bomb was
behind the derailment of an express train overnight that left 39 dead.


The head of Russia's domestic intelligence service has said that a bomb was
behind the derailment of an express train overnight that left scores dead and
nearly 100 injured.

A second, less powerful bomb has exploded at the site although no one was
injured.

Russian Railways chief Vladimir Yakunin said the bomb went off at 2pm (11am
Irish time).

FSB chief Alexander Bortnikov has told Russian President Dmitry Medvedev that a
bomb equivalent to 7kgs of TNT had derailed the train late on Friday.

At least 39 people have been killed and 87 others injured in the crash.

The authorities said four rear cars of an express train from Moscow to St
Petersburg went off the tracks in the Novgorod province.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2009 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 29, 2009 Sunday

TERROR ATTACK FEAR AS BLAST KILLS 26 ON RUSSIAN EXPRESS

BYLINE: FROM WILL STEWART

LENGTH: 224 words


A HOMEMADE bomb was used in the suspected terrorist strike on a Russian express
train which left at least 26 dead and 96 injured, security sources said
yesterday.

The death toll was expected to rise last night as 18 passengers were still
missing in the contorted remains of the last two coaches of the 14-carriage
Nevsky Express.

The train, carrying nearly 700 passengers, was travelling at more than 100mph
between Moscow and St Petersburg when it crashed at 9.34pm on Friday. Passengers
had to wait up to two hours in the freezing cold before they could get medical
treatment. Officials said there was a 3ft-wide crater on the track and the
remains of an explosive device. A second bomb exploded at the site at yesterday
afternoon but no one was hurt.

Russian security service chief Alexander Bortnikov blamed 'an improvised
explosive device equivalent to 7kg of TNT' for the crash.

Prosecutor's Office spokesman Vladimir Markin called it 'a terrorist act.'
Andrei Abramenko, a police officer on the train, said: 'People were completely
crushed under the metal. I heard screams, moaning.'

One survivor said: 'For two hours after the crash nothing was happening. We
could not do anything with the injured. There is anger that the train crew were
in total confusion.'

Among the dead was Boris Evstratikov, the man in charge of Russian financial
reserves.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                               November 29, 2009
                                 3 Star Edition

39 killed in terrorist train attack

BYLINE: Andrew Wakefield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 123 words


TERRORIST bombers were last night blamed for a train crash that killed up to 39
people.

The luxury Nevsky Express was derailed on Friday as it carried 682 passengers
and 29 crew from Moscow to St Petersburg.

Yesterday a second bomb exploded at the site as hundreds of rescuers battled to
free victims still trapped in the wreckage.

Several of the 14 shattered carriages lay on their sides next to a crater from
the initial blast.

Witnesses to the crash 200 miles north of Moscow said they heard a loud bang. A
cop said: "People were crushed. I heard screams."

About 96 victims were being treated in hospitals last night. Eighteen are
missing.

Prosecutors refused to name suspects but there are fears of new attacks by
Chechen rebels.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CARNAGE: Armed and masked cops inspect the wrecked train

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday

Johnson attacks terror bail ruling

BYLINE: John Aston

LENGTH: 177 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE Home Secretary yesterday criticised a landmark High Court ruling
that condemned   the government's use of secret evidence to deny terror suspects
bail.


Alan Johnson warned the "unhelpful" decision - hailed as "historic" by human
rights lawyers - would make his job of protecting the public "harder".

Judges ruled that the Special Immigration Appeals Commission unlawfully denied
bail to two suspects, "U" and "Xc", solely on  the basis of   secret evidence
that they posed serious security risks.

Declaring there had been a human rights breach,  Lord Justice Laws and Mr
Justice Owen, sitting in London, ruled  bail applications should be treated the
same as control order cases, where terror suspects must be given an "irreducible
minimum" of information about the case against them.

The judges refused permission to appeal, but delayed the release of both men to
give the Home Secretary time to ask the Court of Appeal itself to hear the case.

Gareth Peirce, the solicitor for U and Xc, described it as "a historic
judgment".

Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, said: "Yet again it takes a senior judge
to point out what most people already know - if the government is going to lock
you up, it needs to tell you why."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

MPs look into govt response to terror attacks and the cocaine trade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 104 words


Home Affairs Committee holds session on the Home Office's response to Terrorist
attacks with ex-Met Police anti-terror chief Andy Hayman and ex-Met Police Chief
Commissioner Sir Ian Blair at 10:30hrs GMT. A second session follows on 'The
Cocaine Trade', incl the government's policy, law enforcement and international
responses to the cocaine trade, with Government Drugs Adviser 1998-2002 Keith
Hellawell (11:40hrs GMT) and Crime Reduction Minister Alan Campbell (12:00hrs
GMT)

Start date: 2009-12-08

End date: 2009-12-08

Event URL:
http://www.parliament.uk/parliamentary_committees/home_affairs_committee.cfm

Event time: 10:30 GMT

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

Pakistan prosecutors present opening arguments in Mumbai terror attacks trial

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 150 words


Pakistan: prosecutors present opening arguments in trial of seven men charged
with planning and helping to execute the Nov 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai,
India, which killed 174 and injured nearly 300 when militants armed with
grenades and assault rifles targeted six sites across the city incl the
five-star Taj Palace and Oberoi Hotels, the main CST train station, and Leopold
cafe. Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab was the only one of ten militants
captured alive and is currently on trial in India. The attacks were allegedly
masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistan militant network established in the
early 1990s to reclaim what it views as Muslim lands, primarily the Indian-ruled
portion of Kashmir. This trial is being monitored by India and the U.S. to see
if Islamabad makes good on promises to bring those responsible to justice

Start date: 2009-12-05

End date: 2009-12-05

Event URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

International: Syria: Bus blast that killed three 'not a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Matthew Weaver and Ian Black

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 93 words


Three people were killed in an explosion near a bus in the Syrian capital,
Damascus, yesterday. The blast occurred at about 7.30am GMT near a coach in the
Sayeeda Zeinab area of the city, according to the Arab broadcaster al-Jazeera.
After conflicting initial reports about the number of casualties the Syrian
authorities played down the incident and flatly denied it was a terrorist
attack. Syria's interior minister, Said Mohammad Sammour, said the explosion
killed the bus driver and two petrol station workers when a tyre they were
pumping air into exploded.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

United Nations: Security Council, in Statement, Condemns 3 December Terrorist
Attack in Somalia

LENGTH: 714 words


Statement, Condemns 3 December Terrorist Attack in Somalia

Calling it a 'criminal attack', the Security Council this afternoon
condemned 'in the strongest terms' today's terrorist attack in
Mogadishu, Somalia, which killed and injured innocent civilians at a
graduation ceremony for Somali medical students, resulting also in the
deaths of the Ministers of Health, Higher Education and Education of
the Somali Transitional Federal Government.

The 15-member body expressed its deepest sympathy and condolences to
the families of those killed and injured in the attack, and to the
Government and people of Somalia, in a statement read out by Michel
Kafando (Burkina Faso), its President for December, and urged a
thorough investigation and for the perpetrators to be brought swiftly
to justice.

It also reaffirmed its demand that all opposition groups end attacks
immediately and that they put down their arms to join the
reconciliation efforts.

Through the statement, the Council reiterated its 'full support' for
the Djibouti Peace Process, which it said provided a framework for
achieving a lasting, political solution. It reaffirmed, as well, that
Somalia's long-term security rested with the effective development by
the Transitional Federal Government of the National Security Force and
the Somali Police Force, in the framework of the Djibouti Agreement and
in line with a national security strategy.

The Council also called on all parties to abide by their obligations
under international humanitarian law, particularly to respect the
security of civilians, humanitarian workers and personnel serving with
the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM). The Governments of
Uganda and Burundi were singled out for appreciation for their
commitment of troops to AMISOM, for which the Council reiterated its
strong support.

The meeting began at 5:11 p.m. and ended at 5:17 p.m.

The full text of Presidential Statement S/PRST/2009/31 reads as follows:

The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist
attack in Mogadishu on 3 December at a graduation ceremony for Somali
medical students at Banadier University, which resulted in the death of
innocent civilians and the Somali Ministers of Health, Higher Education
and Education. This was a criminal attack on people dedicated to
building a peaceful, stable and prosperous future for the people of
Somalia.

The Security Council expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences to
the families of those killed and to those injured in the attack, as
well as to the Transitional Federal Government and the people of
Somalia.

The Security Council urges that a thorough investigation be conducted
and that the perpetrators of this attack be brought swiftly to justice.

The Security Council underlines its determination to continue to
support the people of Somalia in their quest for peace and
reconciliation, and the Transitional Federal Government as the
legitimate authority in Somalia, and reiterates its full support for
the Djibouti Peace Process, which provides a framework for reaching a
lasting political solution in Somalia.

The Security Council reaffirms its demand that all opposition groups
immediately end attacks, put down their arms, renounce violence and
join reconciliation efforts. The Council further calls on all parties
to abide by their obligations under international humanitarian law, in
particular to respect the security of civilians, humanitarian workers
and AMISOM personnel.

The Security Council welcomes the work of AMISOM in supporting the
casualties of the attack and their relatives. It reiterates its strong
support for AMISOM and expresses its continued appreciation for the
commitment of troops by the governments of Uganda and Burundi.

The Security Council reaffirms that Somalia's long-term security rests
with the effective development by the TFG of the National Security
Force and the Somali Police Force, in the framework of the Djibouti
Agreement and in line with a national security strategy. The Council
urges the international community to support the Somali security
institutions, in coordination with AMISOM, including through training
and equipment.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

Threat of terror attack on 6 December puts west Indian city on alert

LENGTH: 395 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Ahmedabad, 4 December: Police here are on high alert and have taken extensive
security measures following intelligence reports stating that terrorist may
target the city on 6 December, which marks the 17th anniversary of Babri Masjid
demolition.

"We have intelligence inputs that there is threat of terrorist attack in the
city on 6 December. As a precautionary measure, we have extensively beefed up
security in the city and our forces will be on alert," Joint Commissioner of
police Satish K Sharma said here in the western state of Gujarat.

"It is a very sensitive day, as Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya on this
day in 1992 and we have to be cautious to see that there is no untoward incident
or communal tension. Patrolling in sensitive areas has also been increased,"
Sharma added.

Police has also cancelled permission to take out two rallies on December 6
following the security threat, Sharma informed.

Prabbudh Nagrik Shakti Manch floated by former Chief Ministers Shankarsinh
Vaghela and Suresh Mehta and Gujarat State Employees Coordination Committee had
taken permission to take out rallies to highlight issues of government employees
on that day in the city.

"Rallies have been cancelled, as they could be easy targets for terrorists.
These rallies were to pass through communally sensitive areas like Karanj,"
Sharma said.

He informed that the entire police force of Ahmedabad city would be present on
duty on 6 December, while additional police personnel has been called from other
places.

"We have also asked for six SP level officers from other districts, a dozen
deputy SPs and 25 Police Inspectors. Three companies of State Reserve Police
(SRP) including one company of women SRP would be deployed across the sensitive
parts of the city," Sharma said, adding that 500 policemen from other districts
are also being brought in.

Gujarat State Employees Coordination Committee (GSECC) had proposed the rally
after their talks on implementation of sixth pay commission failed with the
state government.

Sharma said that since both these rallies were on the same day and were going to
end in public meeting they would have required adequate security. "We did not
want to divert our resources on this day and decided to cancel the rallies," he
added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1818gmt 04 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

Russia: Investigators rule out terrorist attack in night club blast - TV

LENGTH: 286 words


Criminal proceedings have been instituted over a fire in a night club in Perm in
which 103 people were killed, Gazprom-owned Russian NTV said on 5 December.
Investigators rule out the theory of a terrorist attack, NTV added.

NTV showed Marina Zabarova, head of the investigations directorate for Perm
Territory of the Investigations Committee under the Russian prosecutor's office,
saying: "We are finishing examining the area near the scene of the accident.
Intensive investigative measures are being taken to examine the scene inside the
building. I think that it will take a long time. We expect the arrival of
experienced specialists from Moscow that will make it possible for us to examine
the scene with maximum efficiency. The theory of a terrorist attack is ruled
out. We carried out and finished a preliminary explosion and technical expert
review. Hence, a working theory of the violation of fire safety rules and,
probably, negligence of some officials, remain the only working theories so
far."

NTV went on to say that the last inspection of the night club was carried out by
the fire safety inspectorate on 3 December 2008, which revealed eight
violations. One year was given to the club owners to remove the violations. The
fire safety inspector was to come to the club again on 7 December 2009 to check
whether the violations had been dealt with, NTV said.

NTV showed Deputy Prosecutor-General Ernest Valeyev saying: "I know that the
founders of this firm tried to leave Perm and were detained on the road. So far,
we are speaking about their questioning and a decision on the measure of
restraint [concerning them] will be taken after charges are brought".

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1000 gmt 5 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 6, 2009 Sunday

India: FBI has evidence linking US terror suspect to Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 289 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 6 December: The US has indicated that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) has evidence linking American terror suspect David Coleman
Headley and his Pakistani-Canadian accomplice Tahawwur Rana to the deadly terror
attacks that rocked India's financial hub of Mumbai last year claiming more than
170 lives including foreigners.

A Federal Bureau of Investigation team arrived in the national capital New Delhi
Sunday [6 December] for discussions with their Indian counterparts during which
it may share information on Headley's links with several people in the country,
including those linked to the Mumbai terror attacks.

Sources said the FBI has promised a lot of additional material on the
interrogation of Headley and Rana, who have been arrested in the US for
allegedly plotting terror attacks in India and Denmark.

India is looking forward to the information the FBI is likely to share with
Indian investigators but can't anticipate anything, they said.

President Barack Obama has shown personal interest in the Headley-Rana case and
the matter was discussed during his meeting with Prime Minister of India
Manmohan Singh on 24 November during the White House summit in Washington.

National Security Adviser James Jones said last week that Obama has given
instructions to US authorities to share the information with India regarding
Headley-Rana case, despite the limitation posed by the country's legal system.

He, however, said the US was unable to allow Indian investigators access to the
arrested LT [Lashkar-i-Toiba] operatives because certain aspects of the legal
system here protect the rights of the accused.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1140gmt 06 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

Pakistan paper says terror attacks are changing Peshawar's landscape

LENGTH: 507 words


Text of report by Manzoor Ali Shah headlined "Terrorism changes Peshawar
landscape" published by Pakistan newspaper Daily Times website on 7 December

Peshawar: The never-ending series of bomb attacks has not only disrupted normal
life in the provincial capital, but also changed the city to a heavily
barricaded fortress, with walls, check-posts, sand bags and barbed wires. Every
now and then rumours of attack force the authorities to block the entry to
certain areas, panicking the distressed residents.

On Friday [4 December] Saddar bazaar [marketplace] was sealed following reports
of terrorist attacks in the area, while previously the entry of vehicles had
been banned to the famed Qissa Khawni Bazaar on such reports. The street is
closed for entry of vehicles with barbed wires at its entry point from Khyber
Bazaar in front of Khan Raziq Shaheed Police Station and also from Mohammad Ali
Jauhar Road and Misgaran Bazaar on its eastern end.

The narrow lane of Kabari Bazaar, a scene of bomb attack earlier in May this
year, has also blocked with steel barriers to check the entry of motorcycles. A
similar situation could be seen in the Koochi Bazaar, which starts at the end of
Mohammad Ali Jauhar and runs through Meena Bazaar, Shaheen Bazaar and other
narrow streets of the city.

In addition, the roped-off portions of the roads in every nook and coroner of
the city and its bazaars have also deprived the city of its traditional openness
and hospitality.

Following the recent deadly attacks several such blockades have emerged in the
Cantonment area, which has been the prime target of terrorists.

Check-posts were set up near Khyber House on Bara Road and on the Mall in front
of Peshawar Club and also State Life Building, which has been protected with
sandbags on all its sides in addition to a checkpoint on the Mall. A road
linking the Mall and Bara Road near Stadium Chowk has been closed and a wall
constructed following the deadly attacks.

While on Warsak Road Fata Secretariat is one of such fortified structures, which
has been fortified with sand bags and barriers, in addition to barriers and
checkpoints on this route.

A similar situation could be seen in front of MPA [Member of Provincial
Assembly] Hostel on Sher Shah Suri Road near central jail, where a picket is
being constructed at the gate, while at some distance barricades have been
placed on the main road to protect the newly constructed office of the Governor
House.

Similarly, vehicles entry to Liaqat Bazaar and adjacent markets has been
restricted with steel bars and chains. Every bomb blast and terrorist attack not
only blights a certain part of the city, but also adds to the blighting of the
city's landscape with new barriers, walls, diversions, sand bags and barbed
wires. However, there has been no end to this misery, as terrorism again starts
to bleed the city after a brief lull and this has become a fait accompli with no
possible end in sight for around three million citizens of this city.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 07 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistani TV show discusses recent terror attacks, US policies in region

LENGTH: 2381 words


Karachi Dawn News television in English at 1600 GMT on 4 December relays live
regularly scheduled "Newseye" Programme. Dawn News anchorperson Razeshta Sethna
reviews, discusses, and analyzes major developments of the day with government
ministers, officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts in this
programme.

Programme: "Newseye"

Reception: Good/Fair

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Sethna opens the programme by saying multiple suicide attacks near a mosque in
Rawalpindi killed at least 40 people, including key military officials and 17
children, with as many as 80 injured, many of whom were congregating for Friday
prayers. Initially, two suicide bombers blew themselves up in the mosque, which
caused the roof to collapse. The militants then threw two grenades into the
mosque and started firing at the mass of worshippers. After the operation, four
militants have now been killed. The attack took place in the so-called red zone,
which is supposed to be secure and is closed to the GHQ (General Head Quarters)
and other military facilities, while military officials often visit this
particular mosque. Among those who lost their lives are serving officials Major
General Bilal Omer, Brigadier Abdul Rauf, Maj Zahid, Lieutenant Colonel Fakhar
and Lt Col Mansoor Said. Rawalpindi garrison has been targeted 11 times since
2003 and this year alone the city has witnes! sed five bomb blasts.

Sethna says the latest attack comes just days after President Obama officially
announced the Afghan policy and hours after the CIA (Central Investigation
Agency) authorized more drone strikes in the tribal region. Sethna speaks with
religious scholar Khalid Zahir and discusses the act of targeting a prayer
congregation in Islam. Zahir says the extremists believe all non-Muslims are
kafir (infidel) and believe it is legitimate to target them. Therefore, the
Pakistani Government, the Army and Muslims who are siding with Americans are
legitimate targets for these extremist elements and are all to be fought
against; Any strategy that is the most effective in causing damage to the
opponent army will be considered "acceptable" and followed, even if that
includes killing people in a mosque. The Pakistani Taliban had decent support
prior to getting to this stage of the warfare, but they have lost a part of that
sympathy. Zahir says our fight against terrorism is not being helped by the kind
of support that we are getting from America and the kind of announcements that
we are hearing from Washington every now and then. The Kerry-Lugar Bill has not
come as a pleasant gesture as far as the feeling of Pakistani Muslims are
concerned, neither has the recent speech delivered by Obama at West Point. Many
Pakistani Muslims see these gestures as coming from the enemy and feel that the
Americans are waging a war against the Taliban, while Pakistanis are only acting
as the second fiddle, which is something that the United States needs to address
seriously.

Sethna speaks with Imtiaz Gul, senior defence analyst and author of 'The
Al-Qa'idah Connection,' to discuss how hard it will be for the Pakistani
military to fight in "urban guerrilla warfare." Gul says it is important to
distinguish between the Taliban and elements who have unleashed this wave of
terror in different parts of Pakistan. These elements cannot be called Taliban
or those who stand for an Islamic Sharia system to be enforced in their area of
influence, but they are essentially people "acting on behalf of external
factors", whether it is Al-Qa'ida or people from other countries who want to
settle scores with Pakistan. No religiously driven person would take up on
himself to enter into a mosque and gun down dozens of people within a couple of
minutes; "It is not the Taliban, it is the terrorists who want to terrorize and
scare the Pakistani people and demoralize the security apparatus."

Gul says there are various strands of Taliban currently operating in Pakistan
and the most lethal of them has been Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which was
created almost two years back and clearly declared that the Pakistan Army and
other affiliated security forces was "enemy number one". Similarly, Al-Qa'ida,
which is deeply entrenched in Afghanistan and parts of the tribal areas in
Pakistan, has also declared the Pakistani military as an enemy because the
Pakistan Army was seen as a "collaborator" with the United States. It can be
concluded that it is TTP who is perpetrating these terror attacks not only under
the influence of Al-Qa'ida but probably due to several other external factors.
Pakistan and the tribal areas have become a "very big arena of competing
interests for regional countries"; India will try to settle old scores because
Pakistan first supported an insurgency in the early 1980s in the Indian Eastern
Punjab by supporting the Sikhs and then also suppor! ted militants in the Indian
part of Kashmir, Russia will also try to give the United States and other NATO
members a "bloody nose," while Iran is apparently also seeking to settle scores
with the United States for its "strident anti-Iran policies".

Segment II

Sethna speaks with Maj Gen Athar Abbas, director general (DG) of the ISPR (Inter
Services Public Relations), and seeks details about the recent terrorist attack
in Rawalpindi. Abbas says there were four terrorists involved in the attack. Two
of them got inside the mosque and threw hand grenades and other explosive
material, while the other two "started indiscriminate firing"; finally, the two
terrorist inside the mosque blew themselves up. This resulted in the death of
seven officers, 17 children, three soldiers, and 10 civilians, who were all
offering prayers and killed in this attack. Most of the deaths occurred as a
result of the explosions and the indiscriminate firing. The security agencies
are investigating the matter to find out exactly where the "security breach took
place," because the areas is a high-security zone with security guards and has
all the "requisite security measures."

Answering a question as to whether the security map for key military
installations needs to be changed, Abbas says the attack on GHQ was stopped at
the security building outside the GHQ gate; the area was sealed and 39 out of 42
hostages were rescued. Similarly at the Naval Complex, which was a residential
colony, a school, and a hospital, the attack was stopped at the gate of the
complex and not the Naval Headquarters. But if someone is determined to blow
himself up, he is going to make an impression. The military is conducting a very
successful operation in South Waziristan against the Baitullah Mehsud network,
which has been dispersed and disconnected from its stronghold, and so the
terrorists or the sleeper cells that the TTP planted in the cities are in the
pipeline are going to conduct such attacks. The military is in the tribal areas
to fight these militant organizations to the last and has had great success
until now. Once the operation in the tribal areas is succ! essfully concluded,
it will impact the cities and towns of Pakistan in a positive manner.

Abbas says there has been no claim of responsibility for this attack as yet, but
there have been general warnings about such attacks in the future, and we will
have to absorb a few more attacks, as desperate efforts from all those who are
eventually going down. There are some intelligence reports that the Ghazi force,
named after chief cleric of the red mosque Abdul Rashid Ghazi, is particularly
active in Rawalpindi and its surrounding areas. Police and intelligence agencies
are working in close coordination to dismantle many such networks and a lot of
suicide bombers or potential bombers have also been arrested. However, we need
to further upgrade the civilian security police and civilian security agencies
and beef up the paramilitary in this regard; it is also most important to
eliminate the terrorist sources in the cities.

Talking more about the military operation in South Waziristan, Abbas says that
at this time, the success has to be measured in terms that are different to
those for a conventional military operation. We have entered the area, dislodged
the militants, and killed over 600 of them, but the leadership is always the
center of gravity and is never at the front of the fight. The militant
leadership always stays invisible and moves in tiers of security and can
therefore not be targeted by conventional military operations. It is always the
intelligence-led operations that target the leadership. Some of the leaders are
in the area, while others have slipped out. Our first goal was to dislodge them
from the area so that they are denied access to their bases. The organizations
there have been dispersed, with their communications systems disrupted, and they
are now on the run. We are entering all those areas where the leadership goes,
and when their sources are dried and they are disc! onnected from their cadres
and bases, then we will be able to get to the leadership as well.

Sethna seeks Gul's comments on apprehending the Taliban leadership. He replies
that over 27,000 sq km of mountainous area is available to the militant
leadership on the Pakistani side of the border and a terrain three times this
size is available to them on the Afghan side of the Durand Line. The Taliban
leadership knew well in advance that the Army was going to advance to their
hideouts and strongholds in Waziristan, so they probably left for safer place.
The UN security updates keep talking about over 70 % of Afghan areas out of the
control of the Afghan National Army as well as the foreign troops. The success
of the military operation in South Waziristan cannot be measured by comparing
the leadership that has been arrested so far. The Pakistan Army has recaptured
areas that the state had lost to the militant groups and were being used to
organize terror inside Pakistan.

Segment III

Sethna says that Obama gave a major address as the US Commander in Chief, on his
322nd day in office. Although Obama gave an explanatory speech on his war
strategy in Afghanistan, "there were loud echoes of President George W. Bush
running through the text". Newseye's reporter Mikhal Fernandez Islam says in his
report that just like Bush, Obama also gave his speech in front of a military
audience, which added credibility to Obama's strategy and empasized his
Commander in Chief role. Obama also used 9/11 to justify his rationale, which is
similar to what Bush did; and having two wars and a bad economy is another
striking similarity to Bush's presidency.

Sethna speaks with Hamed Elmi, deputy spokesperson for Afghan President Hamid
Karzai, and discusses measures that the Afghan Government will have to adopt to
prove a credible partner in the US war strategy in Afghanistan. Elmi says that
part of their new strategy is to support the central government, tackle
corruption, and promote peace, security, and regional cooperation along with
reconciliation with the Afghan opposition. They are not a corrupt government,
but there might be some people in the government who are corrupt. They have a
good judiciary system in Afghanistan and hope to get rid of the corrupt elements
in the government on the basis of documents and evidence while, in the mean
time, they want the anticorruption bodies to be enforced. However, they need
regional and international cooperation to tackle this issue because corruption
is not only in the government but also in some NGOs and international donor
bodies, who are responsible for spending 80 % of the mo! ney coming for
Afghanistan.

Elmi further says that they have a very good relationship with Islamabad at the
moment and, every three months, they have a trilateral meeting among Islamabad,
Kabul, and Washington. We are happy to work further on improving regional ties.
The new war strategy on Afghanistan mentions the establishment of our own
security apparatus, which means improving the police and the national army. We
are happy that the US Government mentioned in the strategy the supporting of the
police and the national army and what is needed for that is training, an
equipment system, and a budget. Of course, our national institutions will stand
on their own feet and we will be working on this for the next 18 months.

Sethna speaks with Cyril Almeida, political analyst and columnist, to discuss
which war plan, whether McChrystal's approach or that of White House Chief Rahm
Emanuel, will be followed in Afghanistan. Almeida says that people are still
trying to figure out what the surge in Afghanistan will mean militarily. The
troops may be able to bring down violence in the south just by their increased
presence there, but what is important is what they do with the space created.
The "key factors" going forward within the next 18 months will be the fact that
"domestic support in the United States has slipped for this war." Things started
to become worse than the Americans anticipated in Afghanistan; there is an
"antiwar base within the Democratic Party"; and the Americans are "generally
worried about the economy" and how they are going to pay another $30 billion a
year for this war. The big question is whether Obama Administration is willing
to take this risk of losing public support dur! ing the election season.

Almeida further says that the whole idea of a military surge in Afghanistan is
based on there being a civilian surge as well, whereas nothing like that has
really come through as yet from the Obama Administration or the Congressional
hearings that have now started. In the case of Afghanistan, there are no good
options, it is just picking the least worst option; corruption is an old problem
of the Karzai Government, while the idea of giving a narrow timeline to
McChrystal to tackle militant fighters and at the same time create a space for
the civilians might be a far-fetched expectation. Trying to secure an area while
simultaneously trying to build it is not possible and so not many people are
confident that the strategy will work and the forces will withdraw by 2011.
However, the question for us in Pakistan concerns what kind of Afghanistan we
will be left with on our western border once these forces start to withdraw.

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in English 1600gmt 04 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

US team brief Indian investigators on US terror suspect's role in Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 454 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 7 December: A joint team of US Department of Justice and the FBI
Monday [7 December] briefed Indian investigators on American terror suspect
David Headley's alleged role in last year's Mumbai terror strike.

The team held discussions with the officials of Home Ministry and National
Investigating Agency (NIA), which is probing the role in India of Headley and
his accomplice Tahawwur Hussain Rana, a Paksitani-Canadian both of whom were
arrested by FBI in October this year for plotting terror attacks in India and
Denmark.

Besides sharing the interrogation report including his "role" in 26/11 attacks
in Mumbai, US Embassy spokesperson here Elizabeth Fitzsimmons said the joint
team also briefed the Indian investigators on Headley's alleged role in plotting
an attack on a newspaper in Denmark.

"This in fulfilment of President Barack Obama's commitment to Indian Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh during his recent visit to the US to cooperate closely
in the case," the US spokesperson said.

The team, after exchanging the views with their Indian counterparts, will be
travelling to Pakistan to meet the authorities in Islamabad. "We are working
with Pakistani officials to follow up on leads regarding Headley's activities
and connections in that country," the spokesperson said.

"We have been consulting closely with Pakistani authorities on this case,
following the practices developed in previous high-profile counter terrorism
investigations," the spokesperson said.

According to sources, the FBI gave some information about Headley and also
assured Indian probe agencies that they would share more of it as the
interrogation of the two progressed in the US as well as in Pakistan. Indian
agencies have sought all details of Headley's links with filmmaker Mahesh
Bhatt's son Rahul, gym instructor Vilas Varak, some diplomats and business
personalities who were allegedly "misused" by the terror suspect, they said.

Headley and Rana were arrested by FBI in Chicago in October for allegedly
plotting terror strikes in Denmark and India. However, Rana's advocate had
denied the allegations made against his client.

NIA has already recorded statements of various people, including Varak, during
which he told the investigators about the activities of Headley.

The US terror suspect had changed his name to Headley from Daood Gilani in 2006
to avoid suspicion. The probe agency wanted to undertake detailed questioning of
Headley and Rana and a team from New Delhi had gone to the US earlier this
month.

But the Indian probe agencies were denied access to the terror suspects by US
authorities because of legal necessities.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1518gmt 07 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Threat of terrorist attacks in Russia remains - FSB director

LENGTH: 339 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 8 December: The threat of terrorist attacks in Russia remains, the
director of FSB [Federal Security Service], Aleksandr Bortnikov, has said.

"Despite the fact that a state system for countering terrorism has been set up
in Russia, considerable damage has been inflicted on militants' underground in
the North Caucasus region and the summer burst of terrorist activities in
southern parts of the country has been overcome, the threat of terrorism in
Russia remains," Bortnikov told a sitting of the National Antiterrorist
Committee (NAK) in Moscow on Tuesday [8 December].

He said that critical infrastructure facilities and places of mass concentration
of people are not sufficiently protected in Russia from the antiterror point of
view.

Bortnikov recalled that the Russian president [Dmitriy Medvedev] had approved on
2 December a list of assignments to federal agencies that envisage preparing
within two weeks concrete proposals on stepping up security measures on
railways.

These instructions were given in connection with the Nevskiy Ekspress [train
bound from Moscow to St Petersburg] blast [on 27 November] in which 26 people
died and a terrorist attack in Dagestan at an approaching train bound from
Tyumen to Baku where no-one was hurt.

"The measures should be aimed both at qualitative reinforcing of transport
infrastructure facilities, raising responsibility for violating safety rules at
transport facilities and toughening punishment for illegal interference with the
transport complex activities and at improving passengers' insurance protection
and at the unification of carriers' responsibility for ensuring their safety,"
Bortnikov said.

[In a later report, RIA Novosti quoted Bortnikov as saying: "Measures to provide
railway facilities with engineering and technical safety means that are
envisaged by the federal law "On transport security" are not implemented
effectively enough".]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0746 gmt 8 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistani lawyers' body in UK condemns terror attacks

LENGTH: 259 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar, 8 December: Association of Pakistani Lawyers (APL), a team of Pakistan
origin lawyers, solicitors, barristers, and judges in UK in an emergency session
of its executive body, has condemned series of terrorist attacks in Lahore,
Peshawar and Quetta.

A statement of the association emailed to the press here Tuesday [8 December]
stated that APL has expressed their condolences to the families of those who
lost their loved ones and Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani and Chief
Minister Punjab Mian Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif and Chief Minister NWFP [North-West
Frontier Province] Ameer Haider Khan Hoti.

The APL urged the West to acknowledge resilience of the Pakistani Army who are
sacrificing heavily in this war on terror ignited by the West which has now
moved inside the Pakistani courtyards, streets and markets thus affecting
thousands of families. Only joint effort can avert further destabilisation.

The APL declared that their support those who lost their lives and security
force officials who fought bravely to avert further causalities. Terrorists have
no religion, and they are all but outlawed criminals who must be crushed jointly
with their master minds too.

No society has any place for the criminals who kill innocent children, burn
mosques and universities, it added. It also demanded a thorough investigation to
bring the perpetrators of such heinous crimes to task.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0943gmt
08 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

US man charged over Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 428 words


A US citizen was yesterday charged with helping to plan the Mumbai attacks that
killed 166 people last year.

Federal prosecutors accused David Coleman Headley, 49, who lives in Chicago, of
conspiracy to bomb public places in India, to murder and maim people, and to
provide material support to a foreign terrorist group.

The charges come after Headley, also known as Daood Gilani, was accused of
involvement in a plot to kill the editor of the Danish paper, Jyllands-Posten,
who published cartoons of the prophet Muhammad in 2005 which provoked an angry
backlash in the Muslim world.

Headley is accused of scouting the three locations in Mumbai - the luxury Taj
hotel, a railway station and the Jewish Chabad House - that were attacked in
November 2008.

According to the charges, Headley attended terrorist training camps in Pakistan
earlier this decade operated by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistan-based militant
group.

India and the US accuse the group of conducting the attacks. Pakistan, after
initially denying the claim, earlier this year also reached the same conclusion.

Headley was born in Washington DC to a Pakistani diplomat based at the country's
embassy and an American mother. He attended a cadet training college in Pakistan
but his mother, who by then had separated from her husband, withdrew him in 1977
and took him back to the US.

He adopted his mother's surname in 2006, which investigators claim allowed him
to move more easily across borders.

He had a complicated life that included a conviction and 15-month jail term in
1997 for conspiring to smuggle heroin into the US from Pakistan. This was
followed by undercover work in Pakistan for the US drug enforcement agency.

Also charged yesterday was a retired Pakistani major, Abdur Reman Hashim Syed,
in connection with the alleged Danish cartoons plot. Another Chicago man,
Tahawwur Hussain Rana, 48, a Pakistan-born Canadian, was charged with Headley in
October with plotting the attack on the Danish paper. Rana denies the charge.

Headley was arrested by the FBI in October as he prepared to board a plane in
Chicago bound for Pakistan.

Prosecutors said Headley had travelled to Mumbai several times and taken
pictures and video of places targeted by the attackers. Court documents say that
after his trips to India he travelled to Pakistan to pass on the results of his
research and that early last year he took boat trips to Mumbai harbour, from
where the terrorists later launched their attack.

166

The number of people killed when terrorists launched co-ordinated attacks across
Mumbai in November last year

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Terror attacks;
World briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 55 words


PAKISTAN: Two separate bomb attacks killed more than 20 people and injured
dozens more in Pakistan yesterday. In the first a suicide bomber struck outside
a court building in Peshawar, killing six people and wounding 49. Hours later
two bombs ripped through a crowded market in the eastern city of Lahore killing
at least 12 people.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

Two militants sentenced for terrorist attacks in Moscow

LENGTH: 130 words


The Moscow City Court has sentenced Khalid Khuguyev and Magomazair Gadzhiakayev,
who organized and carried out terrorist attacks at the hotel Inturist and at the
shopping mall Okhotnyy Ryad in Moscow in 1999, to 25 and 15 years in prison
respectively, Interfax news agency reported on 9 December.

The court has found both defendants guilty under Article 205 of the Russian
Criminal Code, terrorism. They will serve their sentences in a high security
prison, Interfax said.

The court has also decided that Khuguyev and Gadzhiakayev should pay over R8m
[about 250,000 dollars at the current exchange rate] to the injured parties.

The court held a closed session because it was a highly confidential case, the
report said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1143 gmt 9 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

Workers trained as terror 'spotters' to prevent city attacks

BYLINE: CATHERINE SALMOND

LENGTH: 395 words



HIGHLIGHT: MORE than 1,200 workers across the city have been trained as
terrorist "spotters" by police fighting to prevent attacks in Edinburgh, it
emerged today.


The latest 60 "recruits" attended an all-day event yesterday, learning how to
spot and report suspicious activities in their neighbourhoods or workplaces.

The Project Griffin session was aimed at advising the public - along with
representatives from businesses, universities and public sector bodies - to be
on the alert against potential attackers who could cause devastation.

Superintendent Mark Williams, from Lothian and Borders Police, said: "It's all
about working together to mitigate against terrorism in the city.

"The people who are invited and attend these events have a critical role - they
are the eyes and ears the police rely on."

Project Griffin - first developed by the City of London Police in 2004 and
launched last year in the Capital - advises employees from a range of businesses
about security, counter-terrorism and crime prevention issues.

More than 1,200 people have now attended events in Edinburgh, including those at
yesterday's session at Our Dynamic Earth, which was also attended by army bomb
disposal experts who demonstrated how suspicious packages are dealt with.

Also in attendance were members of the police force's Special Branch who spoke
openly about the terrorism threat facing the city, but were keen to make clear
it is no  greater than anywhere else.

Detective Constable Andrew Cameron, a counter-terrorism security adviser, said:
"You must keep an open mind when you look at people - do not see colour, instead
see their behaviour. You know your own environment and if something does not
feel right, let us know.

"Terrorists want to kill millions of people. We all saw the attack in Glasgow so
we know they can happen here too - this is not just a London problem."

With more than 23,000 people living in Edinburgh city's centre alone, more than
15,000 socialising every night in the busiest areas and millions of people
arriving every year for  events, experts believe Edinburgh is at risk of a
terrorist attack, as plotters seek busy, crowded places to make their mark.

Project Griffin organiser PC Kevin Smith, national security awareness
co-ordinator, said: "If ever you are going to talk about crowded places, then
here you go.

"But while the city is a target, it is not any more so than any  other city.

"There is nothing to suggest terrorism is more of a threat  here in Edinburgh,
but there  is  certainly no room for  complacency."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                     December 9, 2009 Wednesday 9:00 PM GMT

Khatib guilty of plotting terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man has been found guilty in the UK of conspiracy to murder by
plotting with to blow up passenger jets.


A man has been found guilty of conspiracy to murder by plotting with Abdulla
Ahmed Ali, the convicted ringleader of the foiled plan to blow up passenger
jets.

Adam Khatib, 23, of Walthamstow, east London, was convicted by a majority of 11
jurors to one following an eight-week trial at Woolwich Crown Court.

Ali was jailed for a minimum of 40 years in September after a jury found him
guilty of conspiracy to murder by planning suicide attacks on transatlantic
aircraft.

Three other men, Assad Sarwar, Tanvir Hussain and Umar Islam, were also
convicted in September of playing key roles in the plot.

Co-defendant Mohammed Shamin Uddin, 39, of Stoke Newington, north London, was
found not guilty of preparing for terrorism by meeting Ali on July 19 2006 and
of researching or permitting to research being carried out into the use and
purchase of hydrogen peroxide.

He was also found not guilty of possessing materials, namely a CD, which could
be used for a purpose connected with the commission, preparation or instigation
of an act of terrorism.

However, the jury of seven women and five men unanimously convicted Uddin on the
alternative count of possessing materials, namely a CD, likely to be useful to a
person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Co-defendant Nabeel Hussain, 25, of Chingford, east London was found guilty by
an 11-1 majority of preparing for terrorism by meeting Ali twice in July 2006
and of possessing several items, namely a will, mobile phones and a £25,000 loan
application, for use in terrorism.

The jury reached its verdicts after 31 hours and 11 minutes of deliberations
over six days.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith adjourned sentencing until 10.30am tomorrow at Woolwich
Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2009 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday

Tajik law-enforcers avert "terror attack" in town close to capital

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

Dushanbe, 10 December: [Tajikistan's] law-enforcement agencies have averted a
terror attack in the town of Tursunzoda, not far from Dushanbe.

A source in the law-enforcement agencies told Asia-Plus that during search
operations yesterday, 55-year-old local resident B. Kh. was detained. He is a
member of rebel Col Mahmud Xudoyberdiyev's outlawed armed unit.

"The detainee made a statement that he had received an instruction in the town
of Shargun of Uzbekistan's [southernmost] Surxondaryo Region to blow up the car
of the Tursunzoda town's mayor," the source noted.

During the detention, 770 g of an explosive substance, two mobile phones and
necessary things to set off the explosive and commit the crime, which he had
illegally brought from Uzbekistan to Tajikistan, were seized from him.

A criminal case has been opened, and an investigation is under way.

According to the [Tajik] Interior Ministry, 98 crimes of a terrorism nature were
logged in Tajikistan in 1995-2009; of which 57 were solved.

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 10 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday

TV show discusses terrorist attack in Pakistan's Punjab

LENGTH: 725 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 GMT on 08 December relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Noted Pakistani
journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day
developments with government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and
prominent analysts in Geo TV's flagship programme. Words within double slant
lines are in English.

Programme: "Today with Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Khan says: "It was Multan's turn today as it came under a frightening terrorist
attack killing 11 persons and injuring 47 others. The target of the attack was
the office of an intelligence agency. The people of Pakistan are extremely
concerned about the situation in the country as the wave of terrorism has turned
everything upside down. They feel that the country is at war and that the prime
minister should come up with a concrete plan to deal with this situation. There
have been 2,097 terrorist attacks in Pakistan killing 2,344 persons this year
alone."

Khan establishes a video link with Abdus Sattar Edhi, a renowned social worker,
and asks him what the government should do? Edhi says: "The ruling class is
apathetic toward the ordeal that the nation is going through. The prime minister
must do something now."

Khan establishes a video link with Hassan Nisar, a renowned columnist and
intellectual, and asks: "Why the government has been unable to delineate and
implement an //action plan// to deal with this terrorism?" Nisar says:
"Unfortunately, the ruling class is not of that caliber; they are not sincere,
and nor are they competent. It will be naive of us to //expect// that the
present leadership will formulate an effective action plan."

Khan asks Nisar: "Some people are still trying to give justification for these
terrorist attacks; do you think that the terrorist attacks, which kill innocent
people, can be justified in any way?" Nisar says: "As far as I am concerned;
unfortunately, majority of the people of Pakistan do not own this war, which is
evident from the absence of the kind of enthusiasm we had seen in the 1965 war
against India. It is a pity that people are not recognizing their enemy. The war
against extremism is even more critical for the country's survival than a war
with India."

Segment II

Khan says: "The National Accountability Bureau [NAB] has presented the list of
cases withdrawn through the National Reconciliation Ordinance [NRO] in the
Supreme Court today. The document contains names of the NRO beneficiaries, the
detail of their assets, and detail of the corruption. The list also contains
President Zardari's name and the details of his assets and bank accounts. These
details are none other than those garnered by Saifur Rehman, the NAB chief in
the Nawaz Sharif government in 1997-1999. According to the NAB record, although
not confirmed, the value of President Zardari's assets is 150 billion rupees
[PRe].

Khan establishes a telephone link with Federal Information Minister Qamaruz
Zaman Kaira and asks him whether it is true that the total worth of President
Zardari's assets is 1.8bn dollars? Kaira says: "The corruption cases are bogus
and Sharif and Rehman had admitted afterwards that those cases were based on
political rivalry. //The law says that every person is innocent till he has been
proved guilty//. So it is NAB's allegations that President Zardari owns assets
abroad or his assets are worth 1.8bn dollars. There are also allegations that
President Zardari owns hotels and sugar mills, but he does not own any sugar
mill or hotel."

Khan establishes a video link with Mansoor Hassan Khan, a lawyer, and asks him
if it is prohibited in Pakistani law to purchase property or invest in business
abroad? Hassan Khan says: "The law of the State Bank says that no Pakistani can
maintain his/her bank account abroad. The law also says that any //foreign
exchange earned// by a Pakistani citizen abroad must be //surrendered// to the
State Bank of Pakistan within three months."

Segment III

Khan says: "FIA [Federal Investigation Bureau] Director General Tariq Khosa has
abruptly been transferred to the Narcotics Division. He was investigating the
//Pakistan Steel corruption case// and that is why he has been dislodged from
the FIA."

Khan concludes the programme.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 08 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday

Briton Is Guilty Of Terror Attack Plot

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 467 words


Elizabeth Barrett

ABRITISH Muslim was yesterday found guilty of conspiracy to murder civilians by
plotting with Abdulla Ahmed Ali, the convicted ringleader of the foiled plan to
blow up passenger jets.

Adam Khatib, 22, of Walthamstow, east London, was convicted by a majority of 11
jurors to one following an eight-week trial at Woolwich Crown Court.

Ali was jailed for a minimum of 40 years in September after a jury found him
guilty of conspiracy to murder by planning suicide attacks on transatlantic
aircraft.  Three other men, Assad Sarwar, Tanvir Hussain and Umar Islam, were
also convicted in September of playing key roles in the plot.

Khatib was labelled by the Crown as one of Ali's foot soldiers in the conspiracy
to murder.

Prosecutor Peter Wright QC said: "During 2006 Adam Khatib was involved with Mr
Ali in seeking to bring about a deadly attack upon the civilian population by
the detonation of improvised explosive devices."

The jury was told Khatib visited the "bomb factory" in Forest Road, Walthamstow
alongside Ali and his right hand man, Tanvir Hussain, on July 21.

Khatib's fingerprints were found on an empty packet of latex gloves inside the
premises and his DNA was discovered on a jar containing food dye. Khatib also
spent time in Pakistan with Ali in late 2005 and his fingerprints were found on
a recovered map of Lahore.

In his defence, Khatib said he became friends with Ali through his brother, and
the pair only shared an interest in football, while he sometimes helped Ali sell
electronic goods such as phones.

He said their three-month trip to Pakistan had turned into a six-month stay, but
the jury rejected his denials that it had any connection with terrorist
purposes.

He admitted agreeing to undertake research in hexamine and hydrogen peroxide at
Ali's suggestion in March 2006, but denied knowing whether it had any
significance in relation to terrorism.

Khatib said he had looked up the information online in an internet cafe before
giving the memory stick to Ali in early May 2006, stating he had "no reason to
distrust" Ali.

His barrister, Antony Chinn QC, maintained Khatib, with a criminal record for
driving offences, was a "loose cannon"  and "clown" unsuitable to take part in
such a plot, something the jury did not agree with.

Co-defendant Mohammed Shamin Uddin, 39, of Stoke Newington, London, was
convicted on the alternative count of possessing materials, namely a CD, likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Co-defendant Nabeel Hussain, 25, of Chingford, east London was found guilty by
an 11-1 majority of preparing for terrorism by meeting Ali twice in July 2006
and of possessing several items, namely a will, mobile phones and a £25,000 loan
application, for use in terrorism. The jury reached its verdicts after six days.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

POTTER MOVIE MUM IN BLEACH ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; 24

LENGTH: 196 words


A TEEN yob poured bleach over a terri-?ed mum's head after she asked him to be
quiet during a Harry Potter movie.Annette Warden, 46, needed emergency hospital
treatment to save her sight as her eyes burned.Her hair turned white after she
was attacked for ticking off a 16-year-old and his pals who were chatting,

After the ?lm at the city's Vue cinema she went to a nearby Frankie And Ben-ny's
diner with her hus-band John and two sons. A silver hatchback drove past and the
teen leaned out, calling her a "f***ing slag'', the court heard.Timothy
Capstick, prose-cuting, said after the ?lm the boy told his pals to drive to a
garage. He told his friends he planned to

throw eggs at Annette, but instead bought bleach.Later, as the family ate, the
boy marched in and poured bleach over her head which left her eyes burning with
pain. John chased him out, saw him throw away the bottle and took the car's
number.In a statement Annette said: "It ran down my face into my eyes. I smelt
bleach and felt stinging."She needed treatment at a specialist eye clinic to
pre-vent permanent damage.The boy admits assault but denies intending to cause
grievous bodily harm. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan: Four banned terror groups involved in attacks in Punjab

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Axis of banned Harkatul Jihad-e Islami,
Harkatul Ansar, Lashkar-e-Taiyiba, and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi involved in attacks in
Punjab" published by Pakistani newspaper Nawa-e Waqt on 11 December

Karachi -- In their initial reports about three major terrorist activities
during the last one week in Rawalpindi, Lahore, and Multan, the investigation
agencies of the country have informed the president, prime minister, and Army
chief that terrorists belonging to Punjab were involved in all the three
activities and that a new alliance of four banned outfits Harkatul Jihad-e
Islami, Harkatul Ansar, Lashkar-e-Taiyiba, and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, has emerged,
which is perpetrating terrorism in alliance with Waziristan extremists and
Al-Qa'ida.

According to the eyewitnesses, at least three terrorists were talking and
raising slogans in Punjabi while firing and throwing hand grenades during
terrorism at Parade Lane Mosque Rawalpindi. General Bilal Umar, martyred during
the attack, was on the third floor of the mosque. On hearing the firing by the
terrorists, he along with the other worshippers came to a lower floor of the
mosque and saw a terrorist shooting at the children fleeing from the mosque near
the main gate. He shouted to stop and jumped over the terrorist to get hold of
him. This terrorist had a pistol through which he opened fire at him. He died on
the spot. Similarly, the majority of the military officers were killed while
trying to save the children.

It should be noted that a terrorist has been arrested in Multan. He has revealed
many important secrets and has provided information to the investigation
agencies regarding this new terrorist network, and as a result, the intelligence
agencies have also got details of the top terrorist commanders running the
terrorist network in Punjab.

Source: Nawa-e Waqt, Rawalpindi in Urdu, 11 Dec 09, pp 8, 12

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

JAIL FOR VIOLENT ATTACK;
Court told of terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 253 words


A BODYBUILDER who terrified his ex-partner when he turned up drunk at her home
in the early hours has been jailed for two years.

Anthony Thurlow, 22, demanded a reconciliation with Sarah Kirk and kicked a
bedroom door off its hinges, flinging it onto a bed where two youngsters were
cowering.

When she refused, he bit her ear, punched her in the face and ordered her to
tell police he had done nothing wrong.

Thurlow, a scaffolder from Stockton, had previous convictions for violence
against Miss Kirk during the failed three-and-a-half years relationship,
prosecutor Harry Hadfield told Teesside Crown Court yesterday.

Richard Herrmann, defending, said Thurlow had been using steroids as a
bodybuilder and did not realise they were responsible for making him angry. He
had not used them since the incident on January 13, Mr Herrmann told Teesside
Crown Court.

Mr Herrmann added: "He urges me to inform the court that he fully accepts his
responsibility for this offending, and that it is particularly abhorrent in
nature."

Two youngsters caught up in the incident cannot be named for legal reasons.

Thurlow, of Tithe Barn Road, Stockton, pleaded guilty to affray, and the judge
said that the maximum sentence was three years imprisonment.

The judge, Mr Justice Mc-Combe, told him: "This is one of the worst affrays that
has come across my experience in court.

"I will, however, give Mr Thurlow some credit for the plea he entered. I am
quite satisfied that a sentence of immediate imprisonment is necessary."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2009 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 13, 2009 Sunday

US terror suspect was in Pakistan with Mumbai attacks plotters - Indian sources

LENGTH: 680 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 13 December: American-born terror suspect David Headley had not only
actively played a role in conducting reconnaissance of targets in Mumbai but was
also present in a control unit in Pakistan along with the masterminds of the
attacks to guide 10 Lashkar-i-Toiba [LT] terrorists to carry out strikes in the
megapolis.

Sources privy to the investigations of the terror suspect's trail in India said
48-year-old Headley was very much present in the room from where the 10 LT
terrorists were being guided to various locations during the 26/11 attacks.

The investigators re-visited the intercepts and found that there were specific
instructions being given to

terrorists about entry and exit including that they had taken more time before
reaching their final targets which included Taj Mahal hotel, Oberoi and Trident
towers and Nariman House.

India has asked for a voice sample of Headley from the FBI to match with a voice
which was unidentified so far for the security agencies. This voice was giving
information on exact surroundings of the targets attacked by Lashkar-i-Toiba
militants. However, there was no firm response from the FBI on

providing the same to the Indian investigators, the sources said.

The sources claimed that there were frequent promptings done by Headley to
Lashkar-i-Toiba mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from a room in Pakistan.
Lakhvi, against whom Interpol

has issued a Red Corner Notice at the request of India, was in turn touch with
the terrorists attacking Mumbai.

Headley, who has visited India nine times -- eight times before 26/11 and once
in March this year -- had conducted recce of Nariman House, Taj Mahal hotel,
Lepold Cafe, Chatrapati Shivaji Terminus and Oberoi-Trident hotels.

He had conducted a detailed recce of Nariman House before the Mumbai carnage and
even entered the targeted Jewish Centre posing as a Jew. National Investigation
Agency (NIA) had recorded statements of some of the witnesses who had either
seen or accompanied Headley to Nariman House, also known as Chabbad House.

Six of the occupants including Rabbi Gavriel Noach Holtzberg and five-month
pregnant wife Rivka were killed by Lashkar militants. The two-year-old son of
Rabbi -- Moshe -- was saved by his nanny Sandra Samuel.

The attack by LT terrorists last year in the five-storeyed house, which can be
approached only through narrow lanes and by-lanes of Colaba, had left the
security agencies without any doubt that a proper recce had been conducted
before the strike.

A proper communication had also been ensured so that the terrorists attacking
the Jewish centre did not get confused within the by-lanes leading to the
Nariman House, the sources said, adding there is evidence that Headley was there
in the room when the terrorists were raining bullets in the city.

Headley, who is now facing FBI charges of conspiring in the 26/11 attacks, had
used the service of many prominent individuals in the city to conduct a proper
recce of the places which also included Bhaba Atomic Research Centre (BARC),
Israeli Embassy in Cuffe Parade and Israeli airlines office located in the World
Trade Centre.

Headley had stayed at the Oberoi for four days in April last year despite
staying as a paying guest in Mumbai and before that in Taj Mahal. He had later
left India reportedly for Pakistan through a Gulf country.

Investigators, probing the terror links of Headley had found that the suspects
was moving freely in Pakistan, from where the Mumbai attackers had come and
unleashed bloodbath in the megapolis for four days.

More than 20 teams of sleuths of NIA, a prosecuting agency established in the
aftermath of 26/11, have been entrusted to probe Headley trail and central
security agencies have been formed for gathering information about the places
Headley and his associate Tahawwur Rana had visited between

2006 and 2009. NIA has booked Headley and Canadian-Pakistani Rana under Unlawful
Activities Prevention Act for conspiring to wage a war against the country.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0937gmt 13 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     December 14, 2009 Monday 10:28 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS CHANGED THE WORLD FOREVER

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1022 words


One of the worst terror attacks in history defined the decade, led the UK into
war and changed the world forever.

Nearly 3,000 people, including 67 Britons, were killed when terrorists hijacked
aircraft and flew them into New York's World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Nightmarish images of people jumping from the twin towers were followed just
days later by then-Prime Minister Tony Blair's declaration of the War on Terror.

Mr Blair sent troops into Afghanistan in the hunt for al Qaida mastermind Osama
bin Laden and, eight years on, British forces had their bloodiest 12 months
since the 1982 Falklands War.

But the residents of Wootton Bassett rose to the task of honouring the fallen
heroes as more than 100 bodies returned home in 2009 alone.

Mr Blair's close relationship with the unpopular US President George Bush led to
accusations he was no more than America's poodle and Britain joined the US again
when it invaded Iraq in a blaze of ``shock and awe'' in 2003 despite lack of UN
Security Council approval.

The government's so-called dodgy dossier, used to justify the invasion, was
perhaps most controversial for its claim that Iraq was capable of firing
battlefield biological and chemical weapons within 45 minutes of an order to use
them.

An inquiry found government scientist David Kelly, who had concerns over the
45-minute claim, killed himself in woods just days after giving evidence to a
Parliamentary committee over the issue.

The war on terror was brought to the UK mainland too with the July 7 bombers
killing 52 innocent people in a series of attacks on London's transport network
in 2005.

As the the hunt intensified for four bombers who tried to bring further carnage
to London two weeks later, an innocent man, 27-year-old Brazilian electrician
Jean Charles de Menezes, was gunned down by police at Stockwell tube station,
sparking fierce criticism of Scotland Yard's shoot-to-kill policy.

Police tactics were also called into question during the G20 demonstrations in
London earlier this year, which saw the death of newspaper seller Ian Tomlinson
after he was knocked to the ground.

And questions were asked of other forces following the disappearance of Soham
schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman on August 4, 2002.

Ian Huntley was convicted of their murders, but it emerged he was able to get a
job as their school caretaker despite having been accused of having sex with
underage girls, and of rape, several times in the past.

The disappearance of three-year-old Madeleine McCann in May 2007 also tormented
the nation as months turned into years and still nothing was known about her
whereabouts.

The decade saw further terror attacks too, with baggage handler John Smeaton
hailed as an unlikely hero for trying to stop two men who drove a burning jeep
filled with explosives into Glasgow Airport in 2007.

As the world looked for the promise of hope for the future, an inexperienced
black Senator from Illinois emerged as the new leader of the free world.

Barack Obama vowed to overcome challenges which were ``the greatest of our
lifetime'', including two wars, a global economic crisis and a planet in peril.

The economic crisis, which plunged the UK into its longest recession since
official records began, saw household names disappear from High Streets, homes
repossessed and many families struggling to pay bills.

Economists described the markets over the past decade as a ``wild and ultimately
disappointing ride'' and the UK was left with a £178 billion deficit, with
warnings of more tough times to come.

Mr Obama's presidency also offered fresh hope for the environment in a decade
which saw green issues rise to prominence on the political agenda.

Recycling, energy efficiency and climate camps are in as world leaders meet in
Copenhagen in a bid to agree global levels of CO2 and introduce carbon trading.

And the face of Britain's railway network changed forever with the devastating
effects of the Hatfield rail crash in October 2000 hastening the demise of
Railtrack and ensuring a new approach to the way the railways were run.

Natural disasters wreaked havoc too. The 2004 Boxing Day tsunami killed more
than 200,000 people in 13 countries, leading the world to pledge about £7
billion in aid in the first six months.

In the UK, a wall of water tore through the pretty Cornish town of Boscastle in
August 2004, floods dominated headlines in the summer of 2007 and Pc Bill Barker
was swept to his death in Cumbria last month.

The decade also saw the murder of Pc Sharon Beshenivsky who was shot and killed
by gang members in a botched travel agent robbery in Bradford in November 2005.

Gangs and knife crime featured regularly in headlines.

The death of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, who bled to death in the arms of a
stranger on a Peckham estate in 2000, was one of the most high-profile killings
of the decade.

But he was not alone. A total of 30 teenagers suffered violent deaths in the
capital in 2008 alone, including 16-year-old Ben Kinsella, brother of EastEnders
actress Brooke, Harry Potter actor Rob Knox, 18, and 16-year-old Jimmy Mizen.

The decade also saw Harold Shipman, the UK's most prolific convicted serial
killer, jailed for life for murdering 15 patients while working in Hyde, Greater
Manchester.

He killed between 215 and 260 people over a 23-year period in Hyde and
Todmorden, West Yorkshire, and was later found hanging in his prison cell.

Elsewhere, Gordon Brown's long-sought-after premiership was overshadowed when
Westminster was thrown into turmoil by the expenses scandal as MPs used
taxpayers' money to buy everything from duck houses to porn.

And the death of Baby P in August 2007 prompted outrage and wide-ranging reforms
to social work.

The last 10 years also saw some elaborate hoaxes, with the mother of missing
nine-year-old Shannon Matthews engineering her abduction and canoe conman John
Darwin and his wife Anne going to extraordinary lengths to fake his death in a
£250,000 fraud.

In sport, England swept aside Australia to claim cricket's biggest prize of The
Ashes twice in a decade and the Beijing Olympics saw British athletes return
with a record haul of 19 Golds.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday

India: Witness says Mumbai gunman "seen" at attack site before terror act

LENGTH: 387 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 14 December: The Bombay High Court Monday allowed Centre time till
January 15 to file its reply to a petition seeking a direction to National
Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe allegations by a 26/11 witness that she had
seen Pakistani gunman Ajmal Kasab and two others emerging from Nariman House two
days before the attack.

Counsel for the government sought time to reply to the allegations contained in
an affidavit filed by witness Anamika Gupta along with the petition. Gupta was
herself injured in the firing by terrorists at Leopold Cafe.

The petition, filed by former journalist Ketan Tirodkar, arrested four years ago
under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) for his
alleged links with the underworld, also sought probe into the alleged police
inaction and lack of co-ordination on the night of November 26 last year.

The petition alleged that police inaction led to the death of several policemen
including three senior officers.

Tirodkar's petition sought that National Investigation Agency (NIA) should probe
logbooks of wireless conversations and documents related to the 26/11 attack,
which it said would expose lack of co-ordination by the senior officers.

The petition alleged that the police control room was indifferent to repeated
requests of reinforcement by ACP Sadanand Date, whose squad was fighting
terrorists at Cama Hospital. If reinforcements had reached, slain officers
Hemant Karkare, Ashok Kamte and Vijay Salaskar could have been saved, it said.

The petition further said Anamika and her friends had seen Kasab and his
accomplices riding a bike at Colaba two days before the attack.

"However, the police discouraged Gupta from stating it," the petition alleged.

Anamika alleged that terrorists were residing in Nariman House for a long time
holding Lady Marium at gunpoint and had made it their den. Local food vendors
were supplying them food and they also had internet connections which was later
disconnected for want of payment.

She further said the cable operator had an argument with the boys over internet
reconnection request.

Anamika said she recognised Kasab because she had seen his photograph on
television news channels after the attack.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1431gmt 14 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 15, 2009, Tuesday

I'M AFRAID OF GOING OUT IN PUBLIC;
LEONA'S TERROR AFTER ATTACK

BYLINE: Rick Fulton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 368 words


X FACTOR star Leona Lewis has revealed she's now terrified to go out alone after
a "fan" punched her in the face.

As her attacker was detained under the Mental Health Act yesterday, the Bleeding
Love singer admitted she'd been left traumatised.

In a witness statement read out in court, Leona said: "I feel completely
devastated by this attack.

"Now I'm very frightened about going out in public.

"I don't know where the next attack will come from and if this will be more
serious than what has just happened."

Sick Peter Kowalczyk, 29, shouted "gotcha" after attacking Leona at Waterstones
in London's Piccadilly on October 14.

Leona - who performed on Sunday's X Factor final - suffered reddening and
swelling to her face.

She also had whiplash from the sudden blow, which was delivered in front of
dozens of stunned fans.

Kowalczyk, who is 6ft 5in, had queued up for five hours to get his copy of the
singer's autobiography Dreams signed before the unprovoked attack.

Yesterday, he admitted common assault at City of Westminster Magistrates Court.

Restrained

Melanie Lee, prosecuting, said he used a closed fist with his right hand,
hitting Leona on the left side of her face with a single punch.

She added: "He was heard to say, 'Gotcha' when he punched her."

Kowalczyk was restrained by security staff at the store before being arrested by
cops at the scene.

Leona went into hiding following the attack, which came just after she chatted
happily to fans. Kowalczyk, a schizophrenic, was sectioned immediately after he
was charged with the offence.

He was deemed unfit to attend court on previous occasions.

Yesterday, after offering his guilty plea, the dazed-looking attacker, of
Waterloo, south London, was sentenced to a hospital order under a section of the
Mental Health Act. That means he will be detained for an indeterminate period.

Sentencing him, district judge Howard Riddle said: "This is what happens when
you don't take your medication.

"A woman is now devastated." Leona, 24, won the 2006 series of X Factor and is
now a global superstar, having topped the charts on both sides of the Atlantic.

She did not attend yesterday's brief hearing.

Kowalczyk was led from court by medical staff and returned to hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEARFUL: Leona after the attack. Right, Kowalczyk is held by staff in
Waterstones SUPERSTAR: Leona in an international hit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Terror judges attacked

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 215 words


LAWYERS for the Foreign Secretary have launched an extraordinary courtroom
attack on High Court judges who want to disclose intelligence material related
to allegations of torture involving the CIA.

David Miliband accused the two senior judges of irresponsibly "charging in" to a
diplomatically sensitive area over what happened to former terror detainee
Binyam Mohamed while held by the Americans in Pakistan.

Jonathan Sumption QC, appearing for the Foreign Secretary, told the Court of
Appeal the judges' stance was " unnecessary and profoundly damaging to the
interests of this country".

Mr Sumption added: "I would go so far as to say their views were irresponsible."

Since Mr Mohamed had now been released from detention in Guantanamo Bay, he was
no longer affected by legal proceedings which had "essentially been taken over
to serve a wider, political agenda".

Lord Justice Thomas and Mr Justice Lloyd Jones are under what is an
unprecedented attack by a Government minister on senior judges.

The judges want to re-insert into a series of controversial High Court
judgements already handed down, admissions allegedly made by the CIA to the
British security service.

The Foreign Secretary warned disclosure could jeopardise the UK's
intelligence-sharing relationship with the US.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

Eight die in Iraq terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 23 words



HIGHLIGHT: AT LEAST eight people were killed yesterday in a series of car bombs
targeting morning commuters in Baghdad and churches in  northern Iraq, police
said.


Three car bombs hit central Baghdad, a bomb went off outside an Assyrian church
in   Mosul, and a second detonated less than ten minutes later.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

Terror cell 'planning attack in Bridgend'

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 242 words


A Suspected al-Qaida-inspired cell were caught red-handed checking out potential
terrorist targets, including a Bridgend shopping centre, police have said.

Senior officers said the Algerian gang might have been employed to prepare the
ground for an atrocity.

City of London Police released chilling footage recorded on one man's mobile
phone as he travelled around London.

Footage

It showed the man examining Oxford Circus, Mornington Crescent and Camden Town
tube stations.

Extensive footage was also recorded at Liverpool Street railway station and at
the Broadgate Circle shopping and restaurant plaza.

Police inquiries later revealed the gang also visited shopping centres in
Hatfield, Hertfordshire, Bluewater in Kent and Bridgend.

Five men were arrested in a series of raids in July last year after one man was
caught filming and acting suspiciously at Liverpool Street.

Two men were subsequently convicted of a huge mobile phone and luxury goods
fraud racket and deported after serving prison sentences.

Detective Superintendent Chris Greany, head of counter- terrorism at City of
London Police, said the men might have been a fundraising and research arm of an
al-Qaida-linked group in North Africa.

He said the seized footage was now used to train police and community support
officers across England and Wales about the signs of potential terrorist
activity.

Mr Greany said: "Hostile reconnaissance footage is a tradable commodity within
terrorist circles."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Terror suspects scouted secret 'targets' in Wales and London;
Algerian brothers caught filming sites for possible bombing attacks: Terror
suspects scouted secret 'targets' in Wales

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words


A SUSPECTED al Qaeda-inspired cell was caught red-handed filming potential
terrorist targets, police revealed yesterday.

Senior officers said two Algerian brothers may have been employed to prepare the
ground for an atrocity in London or at major regional shopping centres,
including a location in Wales.

City of London Police released chilling footage recorded on one man's Nokia N95
mobile phone.

It showed the man examining entrances, platforms and CCTV cameras at Oxford
Circus, Mornington Crescent and Camden Town Tube stations.

Footage was also recorded at Liverpool Street railway station and at London's
Broadgate Circle shopping and restaurant plaza.

Police later found they also visited a trade outlet in Bridgend, the Galleria
shopping centre in Hatfield and the Bluewater mall in Kent.

They were foiled when a suspicious police officer stopped one of the men at
Liverpool Street.

A spokeswoman for Bridgend Designer Outlet, the out-of-town shopping complex,
said last night: "We have not been made aware of any of these details."

The footage was released yesterday in response to a surge of criticism of police
for stopping and searching people taking photographs at tourist hotspots. It had
been claimed police are misusing terrorism legislation to target tourists,
photographers and the media in general in busy public places.

Detective Superintendent Chris Greany, head of counter-terrorism at City of
London Police, said the men used sophisticated techniques to hide their tracks.

The senior officer said the pair may have been the fundraising and research arm
of an al Qaeda-linked group in North Africa.

The seized footage is now used to train police and community support officers
across England and Wales about the signs of potential terrorist activity.

Mr Greany said: "Hostile reconnaissance footage is a tradable commodity within
terrorist circles. The actual attack team do not have to expose themselves to
the risk of being disrupted.

"We want to set a balance between the challenges of policing and legitimate
photography by tourists and the media."

The plot unravelled within hours of one Algerian's arrest on the concourse of
the London railway hub on July 11, last year. He told officers he was a tourist
who spoke little English, but was arrested for immigration offences. After the
arrest of the Algerians, investigators brought in counterterrorism experts when
they examined a series of videos, each up to 25 minutes long, on his phone. They
revealed the man recorded extensive footage at several Tube stations and at one
stage even caught a tourist bus through central London. He studied the entrance
at Oxford Circus and CCTV cameras in a lift at Mornington Crescent, possibly
chosen because it is a deep station accessible only by lift. The man also
visited the busy shopping area of Liverpool Street railway station on the
anniversary of the July 7 London bombings. During the video, the Algerian man
gave a muttered running commentary in an obscure North African dialect. A
translator later revealed he said at one point: "There are cameras there, there
are cameras everywhere." Police said he appeared furtive and nervous, holding
the camera at chest height and using his hand to obscure the red recording
light. At several key points, the man filmed his own face and turned the camera
at an angle of 90 degrees, believed to signal key content.

The men also used a pool system to share phones, Oyster travelcards and Sim
cards, potentially to frustrate investigators. Police discovered they were
caught on a traffic camera as they travelled through London in a car as a man in
the passenger seat filmed landmark sites. That man was based at a flat in Brent,
north west London, which was used as a base for a huge fraud. The two Algerian
brothers, both aged in their 40s, had entered Britain about 10 years ago using
false French and Italian passports. They worked briefly in a restaurant before
dedicating their lives to wide-scale credit card and identity fraud. Detective
Chief Inspector Richard Jack, who led the inquiry, said up to 30 people were
linked to the men. He said extremist materials suggesting the link to al-Qaedain
North Africa were discovered during a search of one property. But he added that
no connections were found between the Algerians and any known terrorist groups
in Britain.

Police said the men were charged with fraud offences and sentenced to up to two
years imprisonment before being deported. Prosecutors did not pursue terrorist
charges, firstly because of difficulties with evidence and secondly because they
were unlikely to receive longer sentences. Counterterrorist detectives were also
hampered because they did not feel they could share all the information they
held with the Algerian authorities. The men made hundreds of thousands of pounds
fraudulently buying mobile phones and luxury clothes and exporting them to
Algeria. Assistant Commissioner Frank Armstrong said preventing terrorism
remained one of the top priorities for all police forces. He said: "The City has
always been targeted as it is the world's leading financial centre. The Square
Mile is still very much a target. "One of our main priorities is clearly
counter-terrorism."

No terrorist threat, but no complacency either Assistant Chief Constable Dave
Morris of South Wales Police said last night: "We appreciate this news may be
concerning to our local communities who may have believed that terrorism could
not affect South Wales. "I would like to reassure those living, working and
visiting South Wales that the recent news reports which detail hostile
reconnaissance activity in places throughout the UK including Bridgend, relates
to a City of London Police investigation dating back to May last year.

"This investigation led to the conviction and deportation of the two males for
serious luxury goods and mobile phone fraud offences which were of a type that
may have taken place in Bridgend. "Whilst there is no intelligence to suggest
that there is a specific terrorist threat to us here in South Wales, we cannot
be complacent. "People who live and work in the area must therefore be alert,
but not alarmed. "As always, we encourage anyone who notices anythings.uspicious
to contact the Anti-Terrorist hotline number on 0800 789 321."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCOUTING MISSION: Metropolitan Police CCTV still of an Algerian terror
suspect asking a member of the public to take a picture of him at Liverpool
Street Station, using his hand to cover the red filming light on his camera as
he walks through a Northern Line Tube station and about to be stopped by police
for the first time at Liverpool Street station ON CAMERA: One of the Algerians
caught on CCTV on the Tube and watch their video footage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

Indian police to seek evidence on US terror suspects' role in Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 16 December: In a fresh turn in the Mumbai terror attack case, Mumbai
police would approach the trial court seeking a letter rogatory to obtain
evidence from a US court about alleged involvement of David Headley and Tahawwur
Rana in the 26/11 attacks.

"We shall soon move this court for a letter rogatory (request) to a US court
seeking information about the alleged involvement of Headley and Rana in the
26/11 attacks", Prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told Judge M L Tahaliyani after closing
the case of the prosecution.

This is first reaction of the prosecution on alleged involvement of Headley and
Rana in the 26 November terror attacks.

It appeared from the chargesheet filed by Federal Bureau of Investigation in the
US court that Headley and Rana were involved in the module of filming targets,
Nikam said adding accused Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed, facing trial in a
court here, were involved in preparing maps of targets.

He said the LeT had adopted different set of modules for collecting information
about the topography of places targetted for the terror attacks.

Nikam said one module was given the task of filming the targets while the other
was asked to draw maps of places sought to be attacked.

Ansari and Ahmed, both Indians, are facing trial with Ajmal Amir Kasab, the lone
captured terrorist of Mumbai (India's commercial hub) attack, for allegedly
participating in the 26/11 conspiracy by handing over maps to LeT.

Headley and Rana also appear to be involved in the conspiracy for their alleged
role in filming targets and showing them to the terrorists at a military camp in
Pakistan before the 26 November attacks, Nikam told PTI.

Nikam said that based on evidence obtained from the US court about the alleged
involvement of Headley and Rana, the authorities may seek extradition of the
duo. However, this may take some time and this move would not affect the trial
here in a special court as it came to an end Wednesday [16 December].

If Headley and Rana are extradited they would be tried separately in the court
here, Nikam said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1612gmt 16 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

Life for airline terror attack plotter

LENGTH: 213  words


A Muslim man has been sentenced to life in prison after being convicted of
conspiring to murder civilians in a "deadly terrorist attack".

A Muslim man has been sentenced to life in prison after being convicted of
conspiracy to murder by plotting with Abdulla Ahmed Ali, the convicted
ringleader of the foiled plan to blow up passenger jets.

Adam Khatib, 23, of Walthamstow, east London, was found guilty on Wednesday by a
majority of 11 jurors to one following a two-month trial at Woolwich Crown
Court.

Ali was jailed for a minimum of 40 years in September after a jury found him
guilty of conspiracy to murder by planning suicide attacks on transatlantic
aircraft.

Three other men, Assad Sarwar, Tanvir Hussain and Umar Islam were also convicted
in September of playing key roles in the plot.

Co-defendant Nabeel Hussain, 25, of Chingford, east London, was jailed for eight
years after he was found guilty of engaging in conduct in preparation of
terrorist acts by meeting Ali twice in July 2006 and of possessing several items
for use in terrorism.

Third co-defendant, Mohammed Shamin Uddin, 39, of Stoke Newington, north London,
was jailed for 15 months for one count of possessing materials, namely a CD,
likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2009 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 18, 2009 Friday

India: Arrested Mumbai gunman denies part in terror attacks

LENGTH: 304 words


Excerpt from report published by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai: Pakistani gunman Ajmal Kasab Friday went back on the confession he made
before the magistrate, saying that he had not participated in the terror attacks
at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) in India's commercial hub of Mumbai on
November 26 last year.

Kasab, in a statement to the court, also denied that he had planted a bomb in a
taxi.

Kasab told judge M L Tahiliyani that he had confessed before magistrate but it
has been recorded wrongly.

Kasab, who claimed that he was 20 years old, also denied that he was with Abu
Ismail during the attack at CST (VT Station).

He rejected the evidence of a witness, Bharat Tamore, that he was seen with 10
terrorists at Badhwar Park when they got down from a dinghy there.

Kasab said that "do baatein bolkar katham karma chaahtha hoon, aaj bhi mujhe
bolne ka mauka nahin mila tho..." (I want to finish by saying two lines, if I
don't get a chance to speak then...)

The judge cut him short and told him that he had to answer questions the court
put to him.

Kasab disagreed with Tamore's version that he had seen the 10 terrorists at
Badhwar Park wearing saffron jackets and carrying bags on their back and also a
handbag.

Tamore had told the Judge in his evidence that he saw two of the 10 terrorists
closely and that Kasab was one of them.

Several questions were put to Kasab based on the evidences given by witnesses.

Asked about the dinghy, Kasab said that he did not know anything about the
dingy. "I saw the dingy for the first time in the Court," he said.

The case of the prosecution is that the terrorists had reached Mumbai via the
dingy.

Asked whether he confessed before the Magistrate, Kasab said that he had
confessed but it had been not recorded properly.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1022gmt 18 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 18, 2009 Friday

Vengeance seen behind terrorist attack in Russia's Ingushetia

LENGTH: 304 words


Excerpt from report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news
from the Caucasus,

18 December: According to the investigation's preliminary theory, 23-year-old
Batyr Dzhaniyev, who blew up a car near a Traffic Police post in Nazran on 17
August, took vengeance on the power wielding agencies for his mother's death.

We would remind you that the blast went off, when several dozens of policemen
were present at the Traffic Police post taking measures to identify cars without
number plates and with tinted glasses. Twenty-three people were wounded.
Investigators found earlier that the suicide bomber was the son of 51-year-old
local resident Leyla Dzhaniyeva, who died in a car blast on 16 December.

"According to the preliminary theory, the suicide-bomber revenged for his
mother, who died a day before," a source in Ingushetia's power-wielding agencies
was quoted by Gazeta.ru.

Ingushetia's Prosecutor General Yuriy Turygin, in turn, said that Batyr
Dzhaniyev was a relative of the leader of gunmen Magomed Dobriyev, aka Barakat,
killed on 14 September, Yuga.ru reports.

A day before the terrorist attack on the Traffic Police post, a car carrying
relatives of the murdered Ingush human rights activist Maksharip Aushev was
blown up. Aushev's wife, her mother and two brothers were in the car. Ingush
opposition leader Magomed Khazbiyev told Kavkazskiy Uzel that staffers of the
special services inspected the car before the blast. According to another
theory, the car blew up, because policemen opened fire on it.

Leyla Dzhaniyeva, a 51-year-old resident of Nazran, and her 25-year-old son
Ruslan were killed in the incident. The deceased woman's 27-year-old daughter
Fatima Dzhaniyeva and 23-year-old son Amir were wounded.

[Passage omitted: editorial note]

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 18 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 18, 2009 Friday

Ministry warns of possible terror attacks in Pakistan's Punjab - paper

LENGTH: 242 words


Text of report by Arshad Dogar headlined "Four men with grenades roaming Lahore:
report" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 18 December

Lahore: The Ministry of Interior's National Crisis Management Cell has told the
law-enforcement agencies about the possible terrorist attacks on two madrasahs
and major markets in Lahore, including The Mall Road and Hall Road.

The text of the letter says: "Terrorists are planning some terrorist activities
in the Punjab, including Rawalpindi, Lahore and Faisalabad. Their major targets
include public places, Mall Road, Hall Road, Defence Housing Authority (DHA),
Lahore, small and major markets, intelligence/law enforcement agencies personnel
operating in civvies. Moreover, Madrassa Madina-tul-Jihad, Rawalpindi Road,
Lahore, and Madrassa Chauburji, Lahore, are likely targets of terrorists.

According to another information report forwarded to the IGP, four armed persons
were roaming in the provincial metropolis to carry out possible attacks. The
report says Suzuki FX (No 3418) white with four armed persons carrying grenades
and pistols is present in Lahore. Arms are hidden in various parts of the car.

In view of the above information, the Punjab Home Department has directed the
law-enforcement agencies that necessary preventive and pre-emptive foolproof
security measures should be ensured for intended targets and personalities.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 18 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 21, 2009 Monday

Opposition calls attack on Kyrgyz journalist "terrorist act"

LENGTH: 386 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Bishkek, 21 December: The Kyrgyz opposition is worried about the attack on
independent journalist Gennadiy Pavlyuk and has called the incident a terrorist
act.

"The United People's Movement of Kyrgyzstan [UPM] has received the news of an
attempt on the life of famous journalist Gennadiy Pavlyuk, who is also known by
the pen name Ibragim Rustambek, with a deep indignation and anxiety. We are
confident that it was not an accident but a specially-organized terrorist act,"
says a statement by the opposition movement UPM posted on the official website
of the Social Democratic Party, which is a member of the UPM.

[Passage omitted: Gennadiy Pavlyuk was thrown out of a window of a block of
flats in Almaty last week - covered]

"Today, the lives of all opposition political figures, journalists, leaders of
NGOs, rights activists and their close relatives are in danger. It is clear that
the current authorities will kill and beat up anyone whom they will not be able
to put in prison," the statement says.

The opposition believes that "for the ruling regime ...[ellipses as published]
terror has become an instrument of political struggle".

In his turn, the leader of the opposition political party Ata-Meken, Omurbek
Tekebayev, with whom Pavlyuk cooperated for over half a year and was planning to
publish the party's Internet newspaper of the same name, told Interfax that he
believed that the incident that happened to Gennadiy Pavlyuk was "an attempt on
his life linked with political and professional activities of the journalist".
"It came as a shock to us," Omurbek Tekebayev said.

[Passage omitted: Omurbek Tekebayev thinks that Gennadiy Pavlyuk was in
Kazakhstan on a business trip]

"This was an act of intimidation for the entire opposition," Omurbek Tekebayev
said.

In different periods, Gennadiy Pavlyuk headed a number of web-projects in
Kyrgyzstan as well as the representative offices of the Argumenty i Fakty and
Komsomolskaya Pravda v Kirgizii newspapers in Kyrgyzstan. During the last few
years, he has worked for foreign publications, including Kazakh ones, and
overseen a web-project of Jenishbek Nazaraliyev - a famous Kyrgyz doctor, a
doctor of narcology.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0649 gmt 21 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               December 21, 2009

Woman terrorised in off-the-leash dog attack

BYLINE: Craig Burnett

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 322 words


A "terrifying" attack by an uncollared dog has left another fighting for its
life - and the victim's owner scared to leave her house.

Irena Gavriluk and her two dogs, Lucky and Rosie, were set upon by a "pitbull
like" animal in the attack at Morden Recreation Ground in Faversham Road. Its
owner was with a baby in a pushchair when her uncollared dog savaged the
48-year-old and her pets.

Mrs Gavriluk said she had been scared to leave her home after the attack and
cannot forget the "terrifying" creature.

She said: "When I close my eyes I only see its mouth and teeth."

One of Mrs Gavriluk's bichon frises, 14 month old Rosie, was left fighting for
its life while its owner was repeatedly bitten and needed treatment from
paramedics.

Rosie was set upon at about 11.15am on Friday. Mrs Gavriluk had to wrench her
own dog from the jaws of its attacker after kicking out and grabbing the violent
animal's nose and neck with her hands.

The Middleton Road resident turned to flee, but she and her other dog were
attacked again. Mrs Gavriluk said the violent dog did not have a collar and lead
- and that its owner, a white woman in her mid-20s, shouted she was going to
have it put down as Mrs Gavriluk fled back to her house.

Mrs Gavriluk said she was worried the dog could turn on its owner's child. She
said: "Next time it could be that baby."

She praised her neighbours for comforting her after the ordeal, describing them
as "really caring people".

Merton police are appealing for any witnesses or anyone with information to come
forward. Sergeant Richard Anderson of the St Helier Safer Neighbourhoods Team
said: "Merton Rec is a pleasant safe place for families and people to be - we
are working hard with the council dog warden team to tackle people who can't
control their dogs or keep them safe."

Anyone with information about the attack should call the St Helier Safer
Neighbourhoods Team on 0208 649 3575 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2009 Thursday

Iraqi TV reports two "terrorist" attacks in Al-Hillah

LENGTH: 46 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic carries at 1112 gmt on 24 December the
following "breaking" news as a screen caption: "Two terrorist attacks target
citizens in Al-Hillah and result in scores of casualties."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1112 gmt 24 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           December 24, 2009 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

TERROR AT HOAX GRENADE ATTACK

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 67 words


TERRIFIED customers fled a cafe yesterday after armed robbers hurled a hoax
grenade inside.

A major security operation swung into action after the device was thrown by one
of two raiders who had just held up O'Brien's Sandwich Bar in Dublin's
Docklands.

Carolina Aquino, who was working next door, said: "Gardai told me to leave as
quick as I can. I didn't know what was going on. I was terrified."

SEE PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPERATION Army at scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 25, 2009 Friday

Broadcasters meet Indian minister over terror attack coverage

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 24 December: For facilitating methodical media coverage of crises
like Mumbai terror attack last year, broadcasters Thursday met Indian Home
Minister P Chidambaram and discussed the idea of having a mechanism by which
factual information can be disseminated by government to the media in such
situations.

During the hour-long meeting, representatives of media organisations like News
Broadcasters Association (NBA), Broadcast Editors Association (BEA) and Indian
Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) briefed him about a proposal to have a dedicated
spokesperson of the Indian government who can update the media during such
situations.

An industry source, who was present in the meeting, told PTI that in order to
avoid repetition of 26/11 kind of situation where media was all over the place,
telecasting the Mumbai terror attacks live on TV, the suggestion of having a
dedicated spokesperson was mooted to Chidambaram.

Another proposal thrown up at the meeting was to have dedicated spokespersons
for certain identified areas like major terrorist attacks, natural calamities
like tsunami, incidents of civil disobedience or riots and war-like situations.

The Indian home minister is said to have assured the delegation that he would
look into the issues raised by them and asked them to take their print
counterparts into confidence about media management during hours of crises.

The meeting, the source said, was facilitated by Indian Minister for Information
and Broadcasting Ambika Soni, who was also present on the occasion, along with
Secretary (I&B) Raghu Menon.

Broadcasters had mooted to Soni the idea of having a spokesperson soon after the
Mumbai terror attacks and had been seeking the Home Minister's audience to
discuss these and other issues for quite some time.

Soni had said on several occasions that she would like to set up a nodal agency
to address the issue of media management during crisis situations and Thursday's
meeting, the source said, was a step in that direction.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1715gmt 24 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 25, 2009 Friday

Algeria paper says army foils "terrorist" attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 128 words


The Algerian army has foiled a terrorist attack in Boumerdes Province [40 km to
the east of Algiers], the privately-owned Arabic-language daily newspaper El
Khabar reported on 25 December.

The paper said that the forces of the People's National Army [ANP] had foiled a
"terrorist" attack on Wednesday evening [23 December] in Wadi Hallal area, which
is located between the municipalities of Taourgua and Baghlia in Boumerdes
Province, where the "terrorists" had targeted a checkpoint of the army and
detonated two bombs one after the other.

The paper added that two soldiers had been slightly injured. The paper also
reported that the security forces had launched a search operation for the
"terrorists" who had fled.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 25 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday

Terror attack on US flight to Detroit investigated in London

BYLINE: Helen Carterguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1155 words

ABSTRACT

Nigerian reportedly linked to al-Qaida to be charged with foiled terror attack
on transatlantic flight to Detroit

FULL TEXT

Searches are being carried out at a mansion flat in central London after a man
with suspected links to al-Qaida allegedly tried to blow up a transatlantic
plane, Scotland Yard said today.

The man, a 23-year-old student from Nigeria named Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab, is
to be charged in a US court on Saturday, officials say.

Mutallab tried to ignite a device as the Northwest Airlines flight prepared to
land in Detroit. It is understood he is an engineering student at University
College London.

He was overpowered by passengers and crew members, who smelled smoke and heard
what sounded like firecrackers, federal officials said.

Security has been stepped up at UK airports for passengers flying to the US, the
Department for Transport said.

Gordon Brown said the UK would take "whatever action was necessary" to protect
passengers.

UK airport operator BAA said searches on flights to the US would increase.

A statement on the British Airways website said Washington had revised its
security arrangements for all travellers to the US and they would only be
allowed one piece of hand luggage.

The prime minister said he had been contact with Sir Paul Stephenson, the
commissioner of the Metropolitan police, because of the "serious potential
threat".

He said: "The security of the public must always be our primary concern. We have
been working closely with the US authorities investigating this incident since
it happened."

One official said the man claimed to have been instructed by al-Qaida to
detonate the plane over US soil.

A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said: "We are in liaison with the US
authorities. Searches are being carried out at addresses in central London."

It is understood from security sources that police and MI5 will want to find out
"as a matter of priority" the significance of any time that he spent in the UK.
The address being searched is in Mansfield Street, near Harley Street.

It is believed that extra staff and resources have been assigned to the
investigation as a matter of urgency, and a key priority will be to check
whether the arrested man has appeared in any other investigations.

University College London said in a statement: "UCL can confirm that a student
by the name of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was enrolled on a mechanical
engineering course at the institution between September 2005 and June 2008.

"However, it must be stressed that the university has no evidence that this is
the same person currently being referred to in the media."

Flight 253 with 278 passengers and 11 crew members aboard was about 20 minutes
from landing when passengers heard popping noises, witnesses said.

At least one person climbed over others and jumped on the man. Shortly
afterwards, the arrested man was taken to the front of the plane with his
trousers cut off and his legs burned, a passenger said. Police said the burns
indicated the explosive had been strapped to his legs.

President Barack Obama, who is on holiday in Hawaii, has been informed of the
situation and is monitoring events.

One US intelligence official said the explosive device was a mix of powder and
liquid. It failed when the passenger tried to detonate it.

"It sounded like a firecracker in a pillowcase," said Peter Smith, a traveller
from the Netherlands. "First there was a pop, and then [there] was smoke."

Smith said a passenger sitting opposite the man climbed over people, crossed the
aisle and tried to restrain the man. Syed Jafri, another passenger, said he saw
a glow and smelled smoke. Then, he said, "a young man behind me jumped on him."

"Next thing you know, there was a lot of panic," said Jafri. The White House
said it believed it was attempted terrorist act, and stricter security measures
were quickly imposed on airline travel. It did not specify what they were. The
incident has echoes of the British "shoe bomber" Richard Reid, who tried to
destroy a transatlantic flight in 2001 with explosives hidden in his shoes, but
was subdued by other passengers. Reid is serving a life sentence.

Mutallab was being questioned last night. An intelligence official said he was
being held and treated in a hospital. Flight 253 began in Nigeria and went
through Amsterdam en route to Detroit.

In the UK, a Department for Transport spokeswoman said: "In response to events
in Detroit, the US authorities have requested additional measures for US-bound
flights.

"We are monitoring the situation and will make any assessments as necessary as
this develops."

Although general airport security remains the same, with no change to luggage
and liquid restrictions, passengers travelling to the US can expect more
searches at the gate before boarding.

Airport operator BAA said in a statement: "Passengers travelling to the United
States should expect their airline to carry out additional security checks prior
to boarding.

"To support this important process, which will take time, we would advise
passengers to leave more time to check in and limit the amount of baggage being
taken on board the aircraft. If in any doubt, please contact the relevant
airline for further information."

A police spokeswoman at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam declined to comment about
security procedures at the airport. Schiphol, one of Europe's busiest aiports
with many transit passengers from Africa and Asia to North America, strictly
enforces European security regulations including only allowing small amounts of
liquid in hand luggage that must be placed inside clear plastic bags.

There was nothing out of the ordinary about the flight until it was on final
approach to Detroit, said federal aviation administration spokeswoman Elizabeth
Isham Cory. That is when the pilot declared an emergency, she said. According to
the airline, owned by Delta, eight flight attendants and three pilots were on
board.

The FBI and the homeland security department issued an intelligence note on 20
November about the potential threat for the holiday season.

At the time, officials said they had no specific information about plans for an
attack by al-Qaida or other terrorist groups.

In 2003, al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden posted a recording on the internet
calling on Muslims in oil-rich Nigeria to rise up against one of the "regimes
who are slaves of America".

But links to al-Qaida remained rare, though security forces claimed to break up
a linked terror cell in November 2007.

Security at Nigeria's two major international airports in the capital,

Abuja, and Lagos remain a point of concern. Uniformed police officers are often
kept busy keeping hagglers and taxi drivers out of the airport. Bags quickly
pass through x-ray scanners and those watching incoming passengers don't usually
conduct tests for explosive residue on passengers' hand luggage or shoes.

At the gate, airline workers often check passengers again with handheld metal
detectors.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

Nigerian aviation body gives travel details of attempted terror attack suspect

LENGTH: 613 words


Text of report by Chinedu Eze entitled "NCAA gives travel details of terror
suspect" published by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 27 December

The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has confirmed that Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab, the passenger who is a suspect in the attempt to bomb
North-west-Delta Airlines flight 253 with 278 passengers and 11-member crew from
Amsterdam to Detroit, Michigan, is a Nigerian who boarded KLM flight out of
Lagos on 24 December 2009 en-route Detroit, Michigan, USA via Amsterdam.

According to the director-general of NCAA, Dr Harold Demuren, the ticket
information of Abdulmutallab showed that the e-ticket with which he travelled
was purchased from KLM airport office in Accra, Ghana on 16 December 2009 and
with USD 2, 831 the ticket was paid for in cash.

Demuren said the original routing of the trip was
Lagos-Amsterdam-Detroit-Amsterdam-Accra.

"However, the routing was later changed to
Lagos-Amsterdam-Detroit-Amsterdam-Lagos," the Director-General said.

He said the return journey of Abdulmutallab was booked for 8 January 2010 out of
Detroit, to arrive Lagos 9 January 2010.

"No contact address or telephone contact was given by the purchaser of the
ticket at the time of purchase. KLM office in Lagos confirmed that the original
ticket bought in Accra was cancelled and re-issued on the same 16th December,
2009," he said.

Demuren also said passenger information document confirmed that the passenger
personally checked-in at 2035 (0835 pm) local time and this was also
corroborated by the close-circuit television (CCTV) footage.

"The passenger did not check in any luggage but was spotted with a shoulder bag.

The passenger went through a normal checking process. His passport was scanned,
his US Visa was scanned and the APIS (Advanced Passenger Information System)
returned with no objection. Passenger was allotted seat number 20B on the
Lagos-Amsterdam leg and seat 19A on the Amsterdam-Detroit leg," the
Director-General explained.

The Murtala Muhammed Airport security also has details of Abdulmutallab's
passport and visa information.

Demuren said the bombing suspect possessed a Nigerian Machine Readable Passport
(MRP) issued on 15 September 2005 to expire on 14 September 2010 and the
passport number is A3921640.

According to the information from the passport, Abdulmutallab has multiple entry
US Visa issued in London, UK on 16 June 2008 to expire 12 June 2010.

The NCAA Director-General said the suspect presented himself for immigration
clearance with his Nigerian passport and the passport was scanned into Passenger
Registration System, "confirming that passenger went through normal standard
security screening procedure."

"Thereafter, he passed through aviation security system comprising of walk
through metal detector and the baggage X-ray screening machine. Passenger
proceeded to the boarding gate where he went through secondary screening as
confirmed by KLM airline security officials.

At the close of the departure, the passenger was confirmed on board, his name
was on the post departure manifest under serial number two," Demuren also said.

He said the Nigerian authorities are willing and prepared to assist in any
investigation that would unravel the circumstances surrounding this incident.

"The Honourable Minister of Aviation would like to assure all Nigerians, the
travelling public and the international community that the Nigeria aviation is
safe and secure, having recently passed the ICAO (International Civil Aviation
Organization) Security Audit as well as the America Transportation Security
Administration (TSA) audit," the Director-General said.

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 27 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

Writer urges Nigeria to take interest in probing attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 1996 words


Text of commentary by Reuben Abati entitled "Mutallab: The Nigerian agent of
Al-Qa'idah" published by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 27
December

Once upon a time in this country, it was fashionable to consider certain things
impossible, indeed un-Nigerian. Before the 1960s, many Nigerians considered
military intervention in Nigerian politics impossible. Even when the first
military coup in Africa occurred: not here, was the refrain on the lips of
Nigerians. But then it happened. In the 70s, many Nigerians also never imagined
a day when many Nigerians would eat crumbs from dustbins as a result of poverty.
It also happened. There is a long list of "would never happen-s" which have
since become elements of rude awakening in the Nigerian experience. I concluded
long ago that Nigerians are capable of anything. Nothing in this country shocks
me anymore.

Up until recently, I kept only one line of faith open: I could still argue that
Nigerians are not likely to engage in suicide bombing no matter how fanatical
they may be about any cause. Even when reports made it clear that a group of
Al-Qa'idah fanatics had set up cells in parts of the North, I still held on to
that last shred of faith in the Nigerian. Why? Nigerians I would argue love life
so much that they would cling to it; their own lives that is, not the lives of
others. They could kill and destroy, but that average Nigerian would like to
preserve himself. We are the happiest people on earth, not so? And didn't one
dictionary describe a major segment of our population, the Yoruba as "the
fun-loving people of South West Nigeria". Well, even that my resilient line of
thought now appears wishful. Boko Haram has shown us that many are willing to
die for stupid causes. The latest incident involving the 23-year old Nigerian,
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab has further proven the point that everything is
possible in a country and among a people who lost their moral compass.

Abdulmutallab is a most unlikely terrorist or suicide bomber. He is said to be a
student of Engineering at the University College, London and the son of a
well-known and well-heeled father. What could have driven him to such extremes,
that he would attempt to bomb a Detroit-bound aircraft with 278 persons on
board? And he is a Nigerian! He is young, privileged: the kind of silver spoon
kid that everyone would imagine was being groomed to inherit a part of the
earth. What could have happened to such a young man that he would think he is
better off serving the Al-Qa'idah? He reportedly got the chemical substance that
he wanted to detonate from Yemen, and as other passengers overpowered him, they
said he kept screaming about the situation in Afghanistan. How is that his
problem? Everyone on that flight must be heaving a sigh of relief that the
Nigerian-born would-be bomber failed in his mission and that he ended up with
burned legs, and the prospect of spending the rest of his life behind bars.

It is not a good story for Nigeria. The would-be bomber's association with
Nigeria further casts a slur on the country's image. It took only a few
Nigerians being arrested for drug trafficking before we all became drug couriers
in the eyes of immigration officials in the West. A few Nigerians added a new
dimension to con-art, and the world slapped all Nigerians with the label of 419,
as if we invented the confidence trick. When next a Nigerian shows up at any
airport anywhere in the world, he is likely to be scrutinised henceforth as if
he were an agent of the Al-Qa'idah. Don't be surprised if in the next few days,
the Western media jumps to the conclusion that Nigeria is a major recruitment
ground for terrorists, requiring every Nigerian to be treated with suspicion.
Our case will not be helped by the acts of terror in the Niger Delta nor would
it be helped in any way by the news that barely a week before the Abdulmutallab
incident, a local would-be bomber had tried to deliver a bomb parcel at the
offices of Super Screen Television in Lagos. Professor Dora Akunyili must be
biting her fingers. At a time when she is trying to rebrand the country
positively, one Abdulmutallab has just made global nonsense of all the seminars,
all the appeals, all the campaigns, all the slogans, and all her passion about
rebranding Nigerian. What is that slogan again? Good people, great country? Mr
Mutallab and his failed bomb would not qualify as a good advertisement.

The Nigerian minister of aviation, Babatunde Omotoba, must also be having
sleepless moments. The would-be bomber reportedly started his journey from
Nigeria. It doesn't matter that he was not detected at the Amsterdam Airport and
that nobody suspected him while he was airborne in the Western airspace: more
questions are likely to be raised about all flights emanating from Nigeria. For,
at the heart of the Abdulmutallab incident is both home and international
security. We need not quibble over the Nigerian side of it: security at Nigerian
airports is lax. Often times the screening machines do not work. Airport
security would go through your luggage with their dirty hands. Many of them
don't even bother to wear gloves. I saw one guy inspecting one passenger's (I
guess dirty) underwear, and then he was to go through my own bag, I quickly
moved to another security personnel. Instead of using metal detectors, on many
occasions, the officials frisk you with bare hands, pressing your pockets, with
some of the mischievous ones trying to touch what they should not. An allegedly
privileged child like Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab may not even need to go through
security screening. Big men and their wives and children are often piloted
through security; they could go straight to the tarmac to board the aircraft,
depending on the scope of their influence. With the power of cash, anything can
be taken onto an aircraft in Nigeria.

The story is also not good for Islam. The would-be bomber being a Muslim further
strengthens a growing suspicion and stereotype, and an established profile of
the terrorist in the mind of the West: the terrorist as Al-Qa'idah, the
terrorist as Muslim. With this incident also coming shortly after the Boko Haram
mass murder in Northern Nigeria, it is difficult to blame those who are
insisting that Nigerian faces a dangerous threat from Islamic fundamentalism.
But our problem is not with Islam, but with bigotry, and demagoguery, and the
colour of bigotry is not Islamic, there are Christian bigots just as there are
extremists among adherents of traditional African religion. In 1993, some young
Nigerians had hijacked an aircraft, they took it to Niger where they were
arrested and subsequently tried and jailed. They were defending the June 12
Presidential election and they were not all Muslims. We must be cautious for
there are commentators who are already rushing to judgement against Islamic
Nigeria. Nor should this become an occasion for Hausa/Fulani bashing. When
Nigerians reduce everything so conveniently to an expression of ethnic contempt,
they gloss over the facts of a case. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was certainly not
acting on behalf of the Islamic North of Nigeria. He is most likely either sick
or a product of failed parenting, or simply tragically impressionable.

By African standards, this must be a great tragedy for his parents and other
members of his family. The Devil has used their family to discredit the whole of
Nigeria and bring shame upon the land. Would they disown him and claim that he
is not a member of their family, not even a Nigerian? Most parents would give
anything to have their children go to school in England. Children are expected
to do well and bring joy to their parents. That is the African way. But to have
a child from a well-known family end up as a terrorist is quite revealing. If he
had succeeded, I doubt if his parents would feel that he would be on his way to
Heaven surrounded by seven virgins as the myth says! Now we know: it is not only
the children of the poor who engage in criminal activities; the rich also cry;
and in this regard, poverty does not always explain deviant social conduct.

The incident reminds America again of how much it is hated by bigots and
fanatics around the world and how vulnerable it is. We live in the American
century, but with the enemies of America recruiting agents from all over the
world, and the most unlikely places, shows how dangerous the American century
is. World peace is threatened. Hate is the dominant spirit of the age. The shape
of war has changed: it is no longer on the battlefield; it could arrive in the
shape of a pillow, a syringe and a pack of powder and liquid that is designed to
kill 278 persons if it works. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab could have succeeded. He
was inside the aircraft; the flight was on its way, effectively inside American
territory. Either a fortunate stroke of serendipity or amateurishness foiled the
plan. But there is something in all of this about the vigilance of the American
intelligence system. They knew about Mutallab, the terrorist. He had been on
their watch-list although they didn't consider him high-risk. Could they have
followed him to and from Nigeria? Even if he escaped the security system in
Nigeria (trying to be charitable here), and the more efficient system at
Amsterdam Schipol, was he possibly walking into a prepared net? The agility with
which someone sitting close by jumped over other passengers and wrestled him to
the ground was more than coincidental. Who was the expert Good Samaritan? "They
took him out and it was really quick". A CIA officer on duty? Within an hour,
the White House had been informed and a statement was issued with President
Obama's authority; who is also personally monitoring the investigations. There
are other angles to this story that are not yet in the public domain.

The Nigerian government has acted properly by issuing a statement. The Ministry
of Information and Communications has said that the "Federal Government of
Nigeria received with dismay the news of an attempted terrorist attack on a US
airline. We state very clearly that as a nation, we abhor all forms of
terrorism. The vice-president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr Goodluck
Ebele Jonathan, has directed Nigerian security agencies to commence full
investigation of the incident. While steps are being taken to verify the
identity of the alleged suspect and his motives, our security agencies will
cooperate fully with the American authorities in the on-going investigations.
Nigerian government will be providing updates as more information becomes
available."

To keep quiet would mean that the Nigerian government does not really care if
the Mutallab incident turns all of us into potential terrorists in the eyes of
the world. But the statement does not go far enough. It should include a direct
condemnation of the would-be bomber and a declaration that Nigerians are
peace-loving people. The Nigerian Government must take a keen interest in the
details of the investigations at the American end, and also conduct its own
investigations as promised. President Barack Obama snubbed Nigeria during his
maiden visit to Africa as American President. Mrs Hillary Clinton later visited
only to abuse Nigerian leaders. The other day, she classified Nigeria along with
Cuba as a country that is able and capable but unwilling to make progress. What
other things do the Americans know about us that are not yet public knowledge?

Mutallab, a former Federal Minister and bank chief, and father of the terrorist
with Yemeni connections, has been quoted as saying that Mutallab, the son, is a
problem child and that months ago, he had reported him to the US authorities. He
is also said to be in Abuja assisting the Nigerian security agencies. Mutallab,
the father, deserves our sympathies. This is at a private level, the story of
his own failure and a lesson to all parents.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 27 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

USA blames poor security at Nigerian airport for attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 1042 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 27 December

[Report by Laolu Akande: "US blames security at Lagos Airports"]

In response to the aborted terrorist attack on a US-bound plane, the White House
is seeking to gather more information from the Nigerian government, particularly
its aviation authorities, regarding the details of the alleged Nigerian
terrorist, Umar Farouk Abudulmutallab, a 23 year-old son of the immediate past
chairman of First Bank of Nigeria Plc, Dr Umaru Abdulmutallab, who is also the
current Chairman of Nigeria's first Islamic bank, Jaiz International Plc.

The United States is worried that the suspect was screened and given a clean
bill of health at the Murtala Mohammed Airport, where he is believed to have
started his journey.

According to US sources, at the time of the incident, (afternoon time in the
US), it was already late in both Europe and Nigeria, but local media reports say
US investigators are still awaiting feedback from the Nigerian end as at
yesterday morning, New York time.

Since the incident occurred on Christmas day, sources in the US have continued
to cast aspersion on the level of security at the Murtala Mohammed Airport,
describing it as very porous.

A US Congressman from New York Peter King specifically stated that the Nigerian
airport is on the US Federal Aviation Authority's (FAA) list of airports with
poor security.

The implication is that the alleged terrorist may have easily sneaked the
suspected material through airport security. US FBI agents have since taken the
explosive devices to its laboratory in Virginia State, US to determine its exact
composition.

Leaders of some Nigerian groups in the US have been looking forward to a
statement from the Nigerian Embassy, a hope that is dashed by lack of a Nigerian
Ambassador in the US.

Similarly, the Embassy in Washington DC could not issue a statement due to the
fact that incident happened during the yuletide.

Meanwhile, US-based Nigerian professionals (many of them US citizens) expressed
were alarmed about the news of the alleged involvement of a Nigerian in a
terrorist act aboard a US airline.

Dr Baba Adam, a US university administrator, said it is unfortunate that Nigeria
"has or is becoming a breeding ground for extremist groups and organizations.
This is a direct attack on us, as Nigerians in the US, as well as our new home
country -the United States of America.

"This terrorist and whoever his collaborators are must be brought to full force
of the law under the USA Patriot Act," said Adam.

In a similar vein, Dr Ola Kassim, a medical practitioner and former chairman of
the Nigerians in the Diaspora Organization, which head office is in the US, said
the latest attempt to blow up a passenger airline should be condemned in
unmistakable terms by all right-thinking human beings worldwide, regardless of
the nationality or religious background of the alleged perpetrator."

Kassim urged the Nigerian government and all "Nigerian citizens to openly
condemn this terrorist act. We live in a dangerous world."

He, however, noted that "the passport system in Nigeria lags below international
standards, since many non-Nigerian citizens are able to obtain genuine Nigerian
Passports through fraudulent means."

According to Kassim, "Whether or not the alleged perpetrator is a Nigerian does
not matter. Either way, the Nigerian identity as opposed to all Nigerians
becomes linked with the issue -either for lax security at our airports, or for
the lack of due diligence in identifying bonafide Nigerians, who are worthy of
being issued our travel documents."

But in a more radical reaction, a US-based Nigerian pro-democratic group,
Citizens For Nigeria (CFN), said it is "outraged by the unfortunate set of
events through the years in the Nigerian nation that have culminated into this
act of terrorism in the US, supposedly by a Nigerian national."

The CFN was founded by a Nigerian journalist, Tunde Odediran, few years ago in
New Jersey, and has now grown to include other active American-Nigerians
clamouring for change in Nigeria and holding the Federal Government responsible
for the fate of the country.

In a statement issued over the weekend in the US by one of CFN's officials, Ayo
Abimbola, a US military veteran, the group noted that the event involving the
Nigerian suspect in Detroit, US, is "a disaster that has been long in coming was
averted.

"This happened because a group of selfish Nigerian leaders with Islamic
affiliation have, instead of taking the necessary action, quietly aided Islamic
fundamentalism for almost 30 years. The Citizens for Nigeria can predict that
when Farouk Abdulmutallab's identity is revealed, he will be known to come from
the northern part of Nigeria that has always received State protection and
patronage for religious persecution."

CFN recalled that in July, 2009, "when the security forces in northern Nigerian
battled the remnants of an Islamic sect loosely modelled after Afghanistan's
Taleban movement, the world did not pay attention.

"In that particular incident, more than 180 people died; and it was a local
Nigerian news. Now that a Nigerian, likely affiliated with Al-Qa'idah, attacked
an American airline, the world's attention will be fixed on Nigeria. To a
majority of Nigerians, religious terrorism has a long history."

Indeed, earlier this year in May, The US Commission on International Religious
Freedom (USCIRF) added six new countries to its list of nations responsible for
committing violations of religious freedom. Nigeria featured in that list,
alongside, Pakistan, Afghanistan, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq.

According to the CFN, "the government of Nigeria has done little to prevent
sectarian violence and there have been no serious efforts to investigate or
prosecute the perpetrators of the numerous sectarian killings and crimes that
have occurred over the past 10 years.

On May 1, under the auspices of the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act,
USCIRF recommended that Nigeria be named as a "Country of Particular Concern
(CPC)", a category designated for egregious abusers of religious freedom, which
includes the concept of gross failure to act to prevent severe violations.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 27 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

Security stepped up at airports after attempted terror attack

SECTION: VERTICALS

LENGTH: 169 words


Security continues to be stepped up at airports worldwide after a man attempted
to blow up a transatlantic jet on Christmas Day minutes before it was due to
land in Detroit from the Dutch capital Amsterdam. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23,
a Nigerian, was overpowered by passengers and crew aboard Northwest Airlines
Flight 253, it is reported he had high explosives hidden close to his body. The
suspect was formally charged with placing a destructive device on the Airbus
330, which was carrying 289 passengers and crew, and attempting to destroy the
jet. A U.S. federal judge charged the suspect at the Michigan hospital where he
is being treated for burns. The father of the suspect, a top Nigerian banker,
Alhaji Umaru Mutallab is said to have become alarmed about the political views
of his son, who is a former engineering student at University College London and
reportedly approached the U.S. embassy in Abuja, Nigeria, in Nov to voice
concerns about him

Start date: 2009-12-28

End date: 2009-12-28

Event URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                               December 27, 2009

INSIDE: World security alert as terror attack on US plane is foiled: Alleged
al-Qaida suspect had links to British college: Police search London address

BYLINE: Jamie Doward Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words


Security at airports around the world was stepped up yesterday after a student
from a London university failed in an attempt to blow up a transatlantic
airliner carrying 278 passengers minutes before it was due to land in the US.

Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab, a 23-year-old from a powerful Nigerian banking
family who studied engineering at University College London, was stopped while
trying to ignite a device on a flight from Amsterdam.

Yesterday MI5 was combing its records to establish whether he had links to any
known Islamist groups in the UK. It is keen to establish with whom Mutallab had
spent time while studying in the UK. It is believed he has not been in the
country for some time.

A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard confirmed it was liaising with US authorities.
Searches were carried out yesterday at properties in central London, including a
student accommodation block.

A US law enforcement source said Mutallab's name had surfaced on at least one US
intelligence database, though he had not been placed on a no-flight list.

President Barack Obama, meanwhile, issued an order calling for more security on
all planes bound for America.

US intelligence officials said Mutallab had claimed al-Qaida instructed him to
detonate the plane over US soil. Officials are probing the suspect's links with
terrorists based in Yemen, a major stronghold for al-Qaida and home to the
radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who regularly addresses university Islamic
societies via videolink.

Passengers on board the Northwest Flight 253 from Amsterdam to Detroit told
yesterday how they had overpowered the suspected terrorist, who suffered serious
burns in the failed attempt to ignite his device.

The attempt was thwarted by film producer Jasper Schuringa, who pummelled
Mutallab, pulled the explosive device from between his legs, then ripped his
clothes off to make sure there were no other bombs on his body. The Dutchman
then helped flight attendants restrain Mutallab before returning to his own
seat. Other passengers gave Schuringa a rousing round of applause.

Mutallab "didn't show any reaction to pain or any feeling of shock" as the
flames engulfed him, said Melinda Dennis.

Mutallab is the son of recently retired chairman of First Bank of Nigeria Dr
Umaru Abdul Mutallab, who was due to meet Nigerian security officials late
yesterday. He said his son had left London to travel, though he did not know
where. "I believe he might have been to Yemen, but we are investigating to
determine that," he said.

Yesterday Britons travelling to the US were told their hand luggage had been
reduced to one item and all passengers were being body searched.

A Department for Transport spokeswoman said: "In response to events in Detroit
the US authorities have requested additional measures for US-bound flights."

The incident has raised fresh questions about security screening at airports.
The Dutch security service, NCTb, said it could not rule out the potential for
dangerous items to pass through security, especially objects that "current
security technology cannot detect".

"Security is not 100% at airports anywhere in the world, that's been shown time
and time again," said aviation expert Chris Yates. "The security processes are
relatively robust but we can't head off every single threat."

The prime minister, Gordon Brown, said he had been in contact with Sir Paul
Stephenson, the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police. "The security of the
public must always be our primary concern," Brown said. "We have been working
closely with the US authorities investigating this incident."

Nigeria's information minister, Dora Akunyili, said the government had opened
its own investigation and would work with US authorities.

"We state very clearly that as a nation we abhor all forms of violence," she
said.

Police yesterday searched a residential property in Mansfield Street, London,
about half a mile from the main UCL campus. A woman who lives in a nearby
apartment, who did not want to be named, said she had seen the family who lived
at the address but that they did not spend much of their time in the flat.

'It was terrifying. I did not think we would make it', 2-3

Al-Qaida has a new face, 3


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                               December 27, 2009

Front: World security alert as terror attack on US plane is foiled: Alleged
al-Qaida terrorist had links to British college: Police search London address

BYLINE: Jamie Doward and Joanna Walters, New York

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words


Security at airports around the world was stepped up yesterday after a student
from a London university tried to blow up a transatlantic airliner carrying 290
passengers and crew minutes before it was due to land in the US.

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a 23-year-old from a powerful Nigerian banking
family, who studied engineering at University College London, was restrained by
other passengers while trying to ignite an explosive device attached to his body
on a flight from Amsterdam to Detroit.

Last night he was charged with trying to destroy an American plane. A judge read
the charges to Abdulmutallab in a conference room at the medical centre where he
is receiving treatment for burns. Agents brought him into the room in a
wheelchair, a blanket over his lap and wearing a green hospital robe. In an
affidavit filed with the charge, passengers said Abdulmutallab had gone to the
toilet on the plane for about 20 minutes and then returned to his seat, pulling
a blanket over himself and saying that his stomach was upset.

The FBI said initial checks showed the device contained pentaerythritol, the
same explosive used by British "shoe-bomber" Richard Reid. He tried to blow up
an airliner in 2001 using material hidden in his shoes.

Yesterday MI5 was trying to establish whether Abdulmutallab had links to known
Islamist groups in the UK. In May he was barred from returning to Britain when
he attempted to apply for a new course at a bogus college. "He was refused entry
on grounds that he was applying to study at an educational establishment that we
didn't consider to be genuine," said a Whitehall official. Scotland Yard
confirmed it was liaising with American authorities as searches were carried out
at properties in central London, including a student hall of residence and a
flat in Belgravia.

America has known for at least two years that Abdulmutallab could have terrorist
ties as he is on a "terrorist identities" list of 550,000 names maintained by US
authorities. However, he had not been placed on a no-flight list, a US law
enforcement source said yesterday. After the incident Barack Obama issued an
order for extra security on all planes going to America.

US intelligence officials said that Abdulmutallab had claimed al-Qaida
instructed him to detonate the device when the plane was over American soil.
Officials are investigating the suspect's links with terrorists based in Yemen,
a major stronghold for al-Qaida and home to the extremist cleric Anwar
al-Awlaki, who regularly addresses British university Islamic societies via
video links.

Passengers on board Northwest Flight 253 told how they overpowered
Abdulmutallab, who suffered serious burns while trying to ignite his device.

The attempt was thwarted by film producer Jasper Schuringa, who hit
Abdulmutallab, pulled the explosive device from between his legs, then ripped
his clothes off to make sure there were no other bombs. The Dutchman then helped
flight attendants restrain Abdulmutallab before returning to his own seat.
Fellow passengers gave Schuringa a round of applause. Abdulmutallab "didn't show
any reaction to pain or any feeling of shock" as the flames engulfed him, said
another passenger, Melinda Dennis.

Abdulmutallab is the son of the recently retired chairman of First Bank of
Nigeria, Alhaji Umaru Mutallab, who was due to meet Nigerian security officials
late yesterday. He said his son had left London to travel. "I believe he might
have been to Yemen, but we are investigating that," he said.

Yesterday Britons travelling to the US were told their hand luggage allowance
had been reduced to one item and all passengers were being body-searched.

A Department for Transport spokeswoman said: "The US authorities have requested
additional measures for US-bound flights."

The incident has raised fresh questions about security screening at airports.
The Dutch security service, NCTb, said it could not rule out the potential for
dangerous items to pass through security, especially objects that "current
security technology cannot detect".

"Security is not 100% at airports anywhere," said aviation expert Chris Yates.
"The processes are relatively robust but we can't head off every single threat."

'It was terrifying. I did not think we would make it', 2-3

Al-Qaida has a new face

Commentary, Peter Beaumont, 3

Captions:

The moment that the 23-year-old would-be bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was
taken into custody on board Northwest Flight 253 when in landed in the US.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               December 27, 2009
                                 First Edition

TERROR ATTACK TRIGGER DECODED

BYLINE: BEN GOLDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 503 words


TERROR mastermind Rashid Rauf has reportedly devised a new code to trigger
attacks in Europe from his hideaway in Pakistan.

MI5 believe the Birminghamborn militant, suspected of plotting the 2006 failed
Transatlantic airliners liquid bomb attacks, is behind a code which talks about
"weddings" to give instructions to Islamist cells in the UK.

The discovery of the code has sparked fears that Al Qaida could be planning
attacks in Britain in the near future, although no details of a possible
location have been revealed.

Details of Rauf 's code emerged after the sentencing of Adam Khattib, a member
of the Al Qaida cell which planned to use Lucozade bottles and digital cameras
to bring down eight transatlantic jets, and kill more than 3,000 in the summer
of 2006.

Analysts In one message Rauf reportedly wrote: "Remember your wedding is a big
day. We will all celebrate with you." MI5 analysts say the words were aimed at
triggering an attack.

Field commander Abdullah Ahmed Ali, Assad Sarwar, Tanvir Hussain and Umar Islam
were all convicted in September of planning to blow up airliners using liquid
explosives, while Khattib was found guilty earlier this month and jailed for 18
years.

The terror spectacular plot began to unravel on August 7, 2006 after Rauf, 29, a
baker's son from Ward End, was taken into custody by secret service agents in
Pakistan.

Two days later, Scotland Yard's anti-terror squad swooped on a bomb factory in
Barking, East London.

Rauf 's arrest, on a bus in the town of Bawalaphur, is said to have directly led
to the arrests of the eight alleged conspirators who stood trial at Woolwich
Crown Court earlier this year.

His capture also led to widespread changes in airport security and a ban on
liquids being taken onto planes in hand luggage, rules which remain in force
more than three years on.

In a bizarre twist, Rauf escaped custody in Pakistan just before Christmas 2007
when, after a hearing in Islamabad, his guards stopped at a roadside mosque to
allow him to pray. They uncuffed him and the militant quickly escaped through a
back door.

He is believed to have returned to the tribal region of Waziristan, where he has
allegedly helped to train European Muslims travelling to Pakistan to become
suicide bombers.

US forces claimed to have killed him with an unmanned drone attack in November
2008.

But in September the Sunday Mercury revealed that signals intelligence received
by spies in Pakistan confirmed that Rauf was alive.

The body of the former Washwood Heath High School pupil was never produced and
no DNA samples were taken to confirm that he died. His family, from Ward End,
has consistently denied that he is dead.

And a leaked list of most wanted terror suspects compiled in September this year
by authorities in North Western Pakistan lists the Brummie as the fifth most
dangerous man in the region.

Rauf is believed to have turned to terrorism after fleeing to Pakistan in 2002
following the brutal murder of his uncle Mohammed Saeed in Alum Rock.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PLANNING: Birmingham-born terror chief Rashid Rauf

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 27, 2009

Foiled: the bomber on board Flight 253 millionaire;
Passenger overpowers would-be terrorist;
Attacker studied at British university;
He's my son, says wealthy Nigerian banker

BYLINE: ANDREW ALDERSON SEAN RAYMENT ROBERT MENDICK and TOM LEONARD in Detroit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958  words


THIS IS the dramatic moment when a former British university student was led
from an airliner after allegedly trying to blow up 278 passengers and 11 crew
members over the United States.

The would-be bomber was foiled only because his explosive device failed to
detonate properly as Northwest Airlines Flight 253 from Amsterdam prepared to
land at Detroit airport.

He was due to appear in court last night after he was charged with attempting to
blow up the plane with a "high explosive'' called PETN - also known as
pentaerythritol - which is a compound used in the plastic explosive Semtex.

As a Dutch video director and producer was hailed as a hero for jumping on the
suspect and subduing him, MI5, the security service, and Scotland Yard were
investigating whether the Christmas Day bomb plot was hatched in Britain.

They were also seeking to establish whether Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23, who
is the son of a wealthy Nigerian banker, was radicalised during his three years
as an engineering student at University College London, which he left in June
2008.

Members of the security services and counter-terrorism detectives - who are
liaising with the FBI and other US crime-fighting agencies - want to discover
whether Abdulmutallab was a member of a previously unknown al-Qaeda network
operating within Britain.

Whitehall sources told The Sunday Telegraph that MI5 had started to examine
files of all known al-Qaeda suspects and sympathisers within Britain to
establish whether the plot had been missed by the security services. Sources
said they believed it was possible that Abdulmutallab may have been on the
fringes of groups being monitored, but the full extent of any possible
connections with al-Qaeda may not be known for some time. Abdulmutallab
allegedly told investigators that he had spent part of the past year in Yemen,
an established al-Qaeda breeding ground.

FBI agents recovered what appeared to be the remnants of a syringe, which was
believed to have been part of the explosive device.

An affidavit filed by US authorities said detonation of the device resulted in a
fire and "what appears to have been an explosion''.

A US news channel claimed last night that the plot was organised by al-Qaeda
leaders in Yemen who sewed bomb materials into Abdulmutallab's underwear.

A Whitehall source said: "MI5 is obviously looking at its files to see whether
Abdulmutallab was known to them. They will want to know who his associates are
and what role, if any, they played in this attack.''

Police yesterday sealed off the street where the suspect lived in central
London. A spokesman for Scotland Yard said: "We are carrying out inquiries in
conjunction with the US authorities. Searches are being conducted as part of our
ongoing inquiries.''

Abdulmutallab is said to have attempted to ignite an explosive device strapped
to his leg as the Airbus A330 was preparing its final descent to Detroit.
According to US intelligence officials, the bomb was a mixture of powder and
liquid.

Abdulmutallab was set alight and suffered serious burns before being
overpowered. Two passengers were also injured. As Britain introduced tougher
security measures for US-bound flights yesterday, it emerged that the suspect's
father claimed to have alerted American and Nigerian authorities about his son's
"activities'', having become concerned by his behaviour.

Umaru Mutallab, 70, a prominent banker and former minister, was said to be
travelling from his compound in the north of Nigeria, where Muslims form the
majority of the population, to the capital, Abuja, to brief security officials.

It is understood that the suspect had been on an intelligence database of
suspected extremists in the United States, but he was not on the "no-fly list'',
meaning he was known to the authorities but not considered high risk. Gordon
Brown pledged yesterday that he would take "whatever action was necessary'' to
protect air passengers.

The Prime Minister said he had been in contact with Sir Paul Stephenson, the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner,

because of the "serious potential threat''. "The security of the public must
always be our primary concern,'' said Mr Brown. "We have been working closely
with the US authorities investigating this incident.''

Tighter security and carry-on bag limits were introduced yesterday at British
airports for US-bound passengers.

Britons travelling to the US were told that their hand-baggage allowance had
been reduced to one item. In addition, all passengers underwent a second
personal and hand-luggage search before boarding. The new guidelines were
introduced at the request of the US government.

Some passengers flying from Britain to America were also told that they would
not have in-flight entertainment.

One passenger, Scott Cullen, 32, said: "Apparently the mapping system which you
can use to monitor the plane's progress is the problem as the American
government believes it could be used as a terrorist aid.''

Abdulmutallab had flown on a KLM flight from Lagos to Schiphol airport,
Amsterdam, before boarding the flight to America. The suspect had been granted a
visa to travel to the US in June 2008 - valid until June 2010 - after claiming
that he planned to attend a religious ceremony. According to reports, he was
refused a visa to enter the UK in May when he tried to apply for a new course
after graduating from University College London. The Christmas Day incident was
reminiscent of the bomb attack by Richard Reid, who tried to destroy a
trans-Atlantic flight in 2001 with explosives hidden in his shoes, but was
subdued by other passengers.

Peter T King, the senior Republican on America's House Homeland Security
Committee, said last night: "This was the real deal. This could have been
devastating.''

>>----->

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 28, 2009 Monday

Pakistan reportedly finds "evidence" of Indian agency's role in terror attacks

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 28 December

Islamabad: Pakistani authorities have garnered the most sought-after evidence
regarding the involvement of India's notorious intelligence agency RAW [Research
and Analysis Wing] in destabilising the country by using Afghan soil, The Nation
reliably learnt on Sunday [27 December].

According to well-placed government and defence sources, RAW has sponsored a
number of major terrorist activities in Pakistan including the one at Meena
Bazaar, Peshawar, in October last and other earlier in Lahore where the Sri
Lankan cricket team was subjected to terrorist attacks in March this year.

Sources informed that RAW, through Afghanistan, had executed the terrorism
incidents through Afghans by providing them money and weapons for the set
targets.

It was further learnt that three terrorist attacks targeting offices of
Pakistan's premier intelligence outfit ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] in
Lahore, Peshawar and Multan were part of the sequence of terrorism being
perpetrated by RAW. India had also been involved in terrorism in Balochistan
province and had killed more than 300 people in the country through
well-organised terrorist acts. The sources further revealed that the PPP-led
coalition government would soon take up the evidence with India through formal
diplomatic channels as well as through major world powers, including the USA.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 28 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 28, 2009 Monday

Minister says Nigeria probing attempted terror attack on US airline

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 27 December

[Report by Zakariyya Adaramola and Nahimah Ajikanle Nurudeen: "FG is
Investigating the Matter  Akunyili"]

Information and Communications Minister Professor Dora Akunyili yesterday said
the Federal Government has commenced investigations into the December 25
attempted bombing of a US airline by a Nigerian, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.

Speaking in Lagos yesterday at a brief press conference, the minister said that
Alhaji Umar Mutallab, the father of the suspected bomber, had earlier reported
his concern about his son's activities to relevant American authorities'

She said relevant security agencies in the country are working hand-in-hand with
their international counterparts on the issue. She said Nigeria abhors all forms
of terrorism and would not in any way condone the act.

Acording to the Minister, the 23-year-old Umar Rafuk has been living outside the
country for a while and only sneaked into Nigeria on December 24 and left the
same day.

"The father Alhaji Umar Mutallab, who is a responsible and respected Nigerian,
with a true Nigerian spirit had earlier reported his concern about his son's
activities to relevant American authorities. The father has already expressed
deep shock and regret over the son's action."

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 27 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 28, 2009 Monday

Hunt for bomber's accomplices;
* Student 'went off radar' while living in Britain;
* He may have planned terror attacks from here

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham and Alex Spillius in Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882  words


MI5 is hunting for possible accomplices of the Detroit airline bomber amid fears
that he may have been planning to launch the attack from Britain.

Security sources believe that Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab, 23, may have developed
links with other extremists during the three years he spent studying at
University College London.

The Security Service is concerned that the son of a respected Nigerian banker
was "off the radar'' while living in Britain from 2005 to 2008 on a student
visa. Little more than a year later he went on to attempt a terrorist attack
after being trained by al-Qaeda. Officers are trying to track his movements and
activities while in the country amid suspicions that he may not have acted
alone.

Yesterday, Mutallab was under heavy guard in hospital after his failed attempt
to set off a bomb on a passenger jet containing 278 passengers and 11 crew as it
came in to land in Detroit, Michigan, on Christmas Day.

They suspect that he had planned to launch the attack from Britain but was
stopped after being refused a student visa earlier this year to study at a
college that was judged to have been bogus.

The MI5 investigation came as:

* President Barack Obama ordered a review of US screening measures after it
emerged that Mutallab was put on a "watch list'' of terrorist suspects in
November but was not included on a "no-fly'' list that would have stopped him
from flying into the US.

* Tens of thousands of air passengers in Britain faced lengthy delays and
confusion following the introduction of increased security on flights to the US.

* Concerns were raised about the student visa system that allowed Mutallab to
stay in Britain for three years. Whitehall officials have expressed fears
previously that extremists were exploiting lax rules.

MI5 and the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism Command have drafted in extra
staff to search for any links Mutallab may have to radicals. Sources said it was
not Britain that supplied the information that led to Mutallab being put on the
US "watch list''.

"We have not come up with anything but we are now going back through our work to
see if he may have been on the periphery of another group or trying to contact
radicals in this country,'' said one.

"We need to know what he was doing in the UK and whether he was just a student.
There may be some fragment that we come across that sheds some light on that.''

Mutallab's attack raises questions about the operations of intelligence agencies
on both sides of the Atlantic. British security officers will need to explain
why they remained unaware of a would-be terrorist living in London for three
years. Earlier this year, Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, suggested that
al-Qaeda cells in Britain were being forced to "keep their heads down'' due to
the success of the service's operations.

The attempted atrocity will also prompt concerns in the US that Britain is
increasingly being used as a base by Islamic extremists planning attacks
overseas. In Washington, US officials are already under pressure to explain why
the threat posed by Mutallab was not taken more seriously and why alarm bells
did not ring when he paid for his ticket in cash and did not check in any
luggage.

Embassy officials in Nigeria, who had been warned of Mutallab's behaviour by his
father, were accused of not wording their warning more strongly. Janet
Napolitano, the head of the Department of Homeland Security, said "there had
never been any additional information supplied that would move him to a
secondary list''.

Yesterday, as US prosecutors charged Mutallab with attempting to blow up the
Northwest Airlines Airbus, fresh details emerged of the plot. He has told the
FBI that al-Qaeda provided the bomb materials and training after he made

contact with a cell in Yemen. He bought a ticket for almost $3,000 and, carrying
a US visa issued in London last year, returned to Nigeria on Dec 24. He flew to
Schipol airport in Amsterdam and transferred to the flight to Detroit.

Mr Obama asked for a review of security and screening procedures after it
emerged that Mutallab used explosive materials similar to those used in
December, 2001, by Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber.

His device included PETN, one of the ingredients of the plastic explosive
Semtex, but got through security in Nigeria and Holland. He had allegedly hidden
the powder in a condom strapped to his inner thigh along with a syringe of
liquid to mix with it.

It is thought that he assembled the device in the lavatory after complaining to
fellow passengers about a stomach upset. It ignited but did not explode, merely
causing a small fire that was extinguished by the crew as other passengers leapt
on Mutallab.

Mutallab lived with relatives in a West End apartment while studying at UCL but
cut off ties with his family after he graduated. He moved to the Middle East and
then to Yemen, sending a text message last August warning them that they may not
see him for a number of years.

There was another alert last night after a second plane was forced to make an
emergency landing at Detroit. The pilot raised the alarm after a Nigerian on the
flight from Amsterdam locked himself in the lavatory for up to an hour. He was
eventually dragged out after crew broke down the door. It later emerged that he
had been feeling sick.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 28, 2009 Monday

yemen is the true home of al-qaeda;
The latest terrorist attacks were planned in the land of;
bin Laden's ancestors.

BYLINE: Richard Spencer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1483  words


To try to blow up an airliner by sewing explosives into your underpants might
seem more a ruse of desperation, something out of Blackadder, than anything from
the standard terrorist training manual.

That is a very different view from how it is being presented to us, of course:
as a new and dangerous tactic in a war in which no means of attacking the
enemies of Islam goes unexplored.

It may be hard to contain a smile, but the frightening truth that emerges from
the Christmas Day attack on Flight 253 is that both standpoints are equally
true. Shuffled from country to country, targeted by drones, electronic
eavesdropping and ever more vigilant and intrusive security procedures in the
world's major cities, al-Qaeda and its associates are both desperate and
inventive.

Long before Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab boarded his plane in Lagos it was clear
that al-Qaeda had torn up the standard training manuals. Since the day of its
most stunning victory in 2001, its methods have become more, not less,
extraordinary.

Most recently there was the attempted assassination in August of the Saudi
Arabian prince who oversees that country's anti-terror programme. Prince
Mohammed bin Nayef, whose father is interior minister and Saudi Arabia's
third-ranking royal behind the king and the crown prince, is an imaginative
tactician. He has been uncompromising in his determination to deal with al-Qaeda
in recent years, but broad-minded enough to use rehabilitation as his favoured
method.

He was therefore receptive when he took an unexpected telephone call in August
from a terrorist named Abdullah Hassan al-Asiri, a man who ranked high on his
list of wanted al-Qaeda suspects.

Al-Asiri had fled to Yemen, but said that he wanted to give himself up - and, as
a mark of his esteem for Prince Mohammed, to do so in person. The prince,
remarkably, agreed and a time was fixed, but as al-Asiri approached he detonated
an explosive device, blowing himself to pieces and injuring the prince.

Al-Asiri, it was later discovered, had managed to breach the intensive security
with which the prince surrounds himself by hiding the explosive in his rectum.
Airports around the world are now considering whether their own security
procedures - and their scanning devices - can deal with this new form of attack.
The only consolation, for those shuddering at the potentially invasive security
implications, is al-Asiri's lack of success. The blast was shielded by his body
to such a degree that only the prince's hand was injured.

It is natural, when the world's security agencies compare these two not
dissimilar attacks, that their focus will be upon Yemen, where both were
apparently plotted. In some ways, the country is the spiritual home of al-Qaeda
- it is the ancestral home of Osama bin Laden, whose father was born in the
valley of Hadramawt, still a base today for al-Qaeda activity.

Of the remaining 198 inmates of the US military prison in Guantanamo Bay, nearly
half are from Yemen, and it is their presence that most explains why President
Barack Obama has found the prison more difficult to close than he envisaged.
Many of those already released, and not just Yemenis, have turned up in Yemen's
al-Qaeda camps, often after going through Prince Mohammed's rehabilitation
courses. Fahd Saleh Suleiman al Jutayli, who was released from Guantanamo in
2006, was killed in northern Yemen in a shoot-out with government forces in
September: his family were informed by another former Guantanamo inmate, Yusuf
Mohammed al-Shehri, who had also returned to Yemen. Al-Shehri himself was killed
by Saudi soldiers in a shoot-out at a checkpoint on the road from Yemen a couple
of weeks later. He and a colleague were dressed as women. His brother, Said
al-Shehri, may be the deputy leader of al-Qaeda in Yemen and it is possible that
he was killed in an air raid two weeks ago.

The attraction of Yemen for radical Islamists is simple. It may not have a
sympathetic host government, as was the case in Afghanistan before 2001 and
Sudan in the mid-Nineties. On the contrary, the government is an ally of the
United States. But it is weak, and the country is deeply divided, tribalistic
and violent. In a country where many men go armed, identifying a terrorist is
difficult.

It is also being torn apart by civil war. The growing strength of the al-Qaeda
presence in the country was foretold only a few months ago, as the government
launched an all-out offensive in the north of the country against a previously
obscure Shia armed opposition group known as the Houthis. As Yemeni jets strafed
their strongholds in and around the northern city of Sa'ada, sending refugees
pouring south, diplomats and analysts were warning that the failure to reach a
peaceful settlement on one front was pushing Yemen closer to the abyss on many
others, risking it becoming a "failed state''.

It is already host to thousands of refugees from the conflict in Somalia, just
across the Gulf of Aden, a country where the government's grip over its
provinces, once lost, has proved impossible to regain.

Joost Hiltermann, author of a report for the International Crisis Group on the
conflict at the time, warned that President Obama could be forced to act. "You
might well see American advisers, maybe even some special troops, go in for
special operations,'' he told The Daily Telegraph in September.

There is little doubt that the US presence in Yemen is already strong and that
it is going to become more visible. In any case, the Detroit attack should be
seen as part of a continuing battle between al-Qaeda in Yemen and America. This
is a fight that includes the attack on the USS Cole in Aden in 2000, when 17
crewmen were killed; the suicide car-bombing of the US embassy in the capital
Sana'a last year and the two major incidents in the last fortnight.

A Yemeni air attack on an al-Qaeda camp, in which 34 alleged terrorists were
killed, was backed by American intelligence operatives with the personal
approval of President Obama, according to the New York Times.

The fall-out from that attack has been overshadowed by the Detroit incident, but
may yet prove more significant. Among those targeted in a second raid on
Christmas Eve were al-Qaeda's presumed leaders on the Arabian peninsula,
including Said al-Shehri, and the noted radical preacher Anwar al-Awlaki, the
cleric who was in email contact with Major Nidal Hasan, the US army psychiatrist
who went on a shooting rampage in Fort Hood, Texas, in November.

It is not known which of these men, if any, were killed. But Al-Awlaki and his
associates will be a key focus for those in Britain examining the fall-out of
the Detroit affair.

Al-Awlaki's videos, in which he explained his radical theories, have circulated
in Britain, and he has even given lectures by video at meetings on British
campuses, including in London.

In Yemen, he was for a time attached to Iman University, the college on the edge
of Sana'a which is regarded as a recruiting ground for al-Qaeda.

Scores of foreign Muslims attend its courses, which are avowedly academic, but
which are overseen by Abdul Majid al-Zindani, who proclaims his religious and
academic credentials but is on the United States' watch-list of global
terrorists. John Walker Lindh, the American Muslim convert captured in
Afghanistan in 2001, was a former graduate.

We do not know if Abdul Mutallab followed the well-worn path to Iman University.
He told his family that he was studying Arabic in Yemen, and has told his
interrogators that he went to an al-Qaeda camp north of Sana'a. If so, he left
long before the recent raids on al-Qaeda, and its operations may now be severely
weakened. Even if that is the case, it is unlikely that it will give up the
fight: it has received worse blows.

"The war between al-Qaeda and the United States is a global war,'' says Riad
Kahwaji, director of the Institute for Near East and Gulf Analysis in Dubai, who
warned in October that President Obama's indecision on issues such as
Afghanistan was creating a dangerous vacuum in the region.

Al-Qaeda was decentralised, he said, meaning that attacks in Pakistan and
Afghanistan did not necessarily damage operations out of Yemen. On the other
hand, increased watchfulness in the West of known operatives meant that it was
being forced to rely on "amateurs'', including students like Abdul Mutallab, who
were from good families and could use their international status to slip under
the radar, but who had had only the briefest of formal training.

What the failed Detroit bombing showed above all, he said, was the danger of
trying to classify al-Qaeda sympathisers as more or less committed or dangerous.

"All of them are dangerous,'' he said. "All of them are dangerous, depending on
where they are and what they are capable of doing. A person who is able to
influence others in their writings or speeches is as dangerous as someone who
can build a bomb.''

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 28, 2009 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Search of terror suspect's home after failed attack;
Al Qaida gave warning over airline bomb

BYLINE: JOE SINCLAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 454 words


AL QAIDA warned of a terror attack just days before a former British student
allegedly attempted to blow up a transatlantic airliner carrying 278 passengers,
it was revealed last night.

Security services on both sides of the Atlantic were under scrutiny as it
emerged Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was able to board the jet with explosives
despite warnings of his extremism, including one from his millionaire father.

Scotland Yard detectives continued to search the 23-year-old's luxury apartment
in a central London mansion block as it emerged an al Qaida operative in Yemen
threatened the US and said "we are carrying a bomb" in a video posted online
four days before the attack.

The student was charged in hospital on Saturday night with attempting to destroy
the plane during its final approach to Detroit on Christmas Day, the US Justice
Department said.

Abdulmutallab, who studied mechanical engineering at University College London
between 2005 and 2008, was also charged with placing a destructive device on the
Northwest Airlines Flight 253.

A fresh British visa request was refused in May after he applied for a bogus
course, Whitehall sources said.

According to an affidavit filed in support of the criminal complaint,
Abdulmutallab had a device attached to his body when he boarded the aircraft in
Amsterdam on Christmas Eve.

As the flight was approaching Detroit, Abdulmutallab was said to have set off
the device, resulting in a fire and what appears to have been an explosion. A
preliminary FBI analysis found it contained a high explosive known as PETN.

FBI agents may also have recovered the remnants of a syringe found near
Abdulmutallab's seat, believed to have been part of the device. A SECOND
Nigerian man was taken into custody after locking himself in the plane's
bathroom. Subsequent interviews determined he was a businessman who became ill
during the flight.

Security levels are stepped up on US flights AIR passengers travelling to the US
were told to expect delays after heightened security measures were put in place
in the wake of the failed attack.

People flying across the Atlantic were advised to arrive early and carry just
one piece of hand luggage.

After checking in and going through security as normal, passengers can expect
extra bag checks and body searches at the departure gate before boarding
flights.

And travellers were being told to remain seated for the final hour of the
journey, with no access to the bathroom or overhead lockers, and nothing on
their laps.

Airport operator BAA said: "To support this important process, which will take
time, we would advise passengers to leave more time to check in and limit the
amount of baggage being taken on board the aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Travellers to the United States experience extra delays following the
Thursday's failed terrorist attack Police activity outside the flat in Mansfield
Street, London, after a man with suspected links to al Qaida allegedly tried to
blow up a transatlantic plane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 28, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bomb suspect got visa in London embassy blunder;
Al Qaeda had warned of new attack Nigerian was on US terror list

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan and Laura Clout

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 680  words


THE terror suspect who tried to blow up a transatlantic airliner was given the
green light to travel to America by staff at the US embassy in London, it
emerged last night.

They granted Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab a regular two-year visitor's visa in June
2008 because "there was no derogatory information available" on him, according
to a US official.

As questions were surfacing over the bungling that allowed the 23-yearold
Nigerian to try to bring down a Northwest Airlines plane over Detroit, President
Barack Obama read the riot act to security chiefs.

He ordered a review of air security after demanding to know how a man who had
been reported as a security risk had managed to board a flight carrying an
explosive substance.

The President also demanded that the system of "watch-lists" for terrorist
suspects be re-examined after it emerged that Abdulmutallab was listed and known
to officials.

Detectives in Britain were joined by security service officials in attempting to
piece together his movements while resident as a mechanical engineering student
at University College London.

They are anxious to trace his associates and discover if the son of a prominent
Nigerian family became an Islamic radical under the influence of British-based
extremists.

He was placed on the lowest-risk list by US authorities in November 2009 after
his wealthy banker father alerted authorities.

According to sources in Nigeria, Abdulmutallab sent a text from the Yemen in
October telling his family to renounce him as their son, saying he had found a
new life and would have no further contact with them.

The message asked his parents to forgive him of any wrongdoing and informed them
that he had ceased to be their child, that he was never coming home and warned
his parents not to attempt to contact him.

Despite Abdulmutallab being added to a "watch-list" with 550,000 names, no
attempt was made to revoke his London-issue visa, which remained valid until
June 2010.

On Thursday he travelled from Lagos in Nigeria to Amsterdam and on to Detroit
with 80 grams of PETN explosive in a condom sewn into the crotch of his
underpants. British shoebomber Richard Reid had 50 grams of PETN, a powdery
substance that is a relative of nitroglycerine, when he tried to blow up a
Miamibound American Airlines jet in 2001.

According to sources, the condom was given to Abdulmutallab by Al Qaeda
quartermasters in the Yemen, and was devised to help the bomber evade security.

Shortly before Northwest Flight 253 was due to land in the US on Friday, he
allegedly tried to detonate the device using a liquid-filled syringe beneath a
blanket but was overpowered by passengers and crew.

The bomb failed to ignite either because the detonator failed to make proper
contact with the powder or because there was too little liquid in the detonator,
said security officials.

They warned it marked a new advance in Al Qaeda's technology and said it may
have been a test bomb to see if it could get through screening.

Abdulmutallab has now been charged by US authorities with trying to blow up the
Airbus 330 jet, carrying 279 passengers and 11 crew.

President Obama's spokesman Robert Gibbs said: "The President has asked the
Department of Homeland Security to answer the - quite frankly - the very real
question about how somebody with something as dangerous as PETN could have got
on to a plane in Amsterdam."

Security experts also want to know why alarm bells failed to ring over a
traveller, carrying only hand luggage for a two-week trip to America, whose
route originally began in Yemen, from where he travelled to Ethiopia, then to
Ghana and finally Nigeria. According to Nigeria's information minister, he
arrived and left in a single day.

Ian Sayer, Abdulmutallab's former headteacher at the British School of Lome in
Togo, West Africa, remembered him as so devoted to Islam he complained about
meeting in a pub.

He also refused to eat pancakes doused in Grand Marnier liqueur.

Abdulmutallab left the school at 16 after his GCSEs. "It appears he was
radicalised when he studied at university in London, " added Mr Sayer.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abdulmutallab near Parliament on school trip in 2001
Abdulmutallab is arrested on plane
The suspect's father Umaru and police at his London home
Armed police at Heathrow yesterday as security is increased after the failed US
bombing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                          Airline Industry Information

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

President Obama promises to bring to justice all those involved in attempted
terrorist attack that took place on Christmas Day

LENGTH: 198 words


US President Barack Obama has promised to bring to justice all of the
people involved in a plot to bomb a US aircraft, according to media
reports today.

A Nigerian man, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, reportedly attempted to blow
up Northwest Airlines (NYSE:NWA) Flight 253 from Amsterdam to Detroit
Metropolitan Wayne County Airport on Friday.

The Airbus A330-300 aircraft was carrying 278 passengers and landed
safely after Abdulmutallab failed in his alleged attempt to blow up the
aircraft using a home-made device, containing PETN, an explosive
material contained in Semtex, sewn into his underwear.

Abdulmutallab is now being held at a prison in the state of Michigan.
His first federal court hearing was cancelled, but he is facing up to
20 years in prison and a fine of USD250,000 on a single charge.
According to the BBC, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula claimed
responsibility for the attempted attack.

Obama said on Monday that he has ordered two reviews following this
attempted attack, one of US terrorism databases and one of air travel
screening. The BBC said that Abdulmutallab's name was on the Terrorist
Identities Datamart Environment database but was not on a no-fly list.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: AII


                               Copyright 2009 EIW
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

SAfrican paper says failed US airline terror attack may herald new era

LENGTH: 356 words


Text of report by South African privately-owned, established daily newspaper The
Star website on 29 December

[Editorial: "A New Age of Terrorism"]

Terror suspect Abdul Farouk Umar Abdulmutallab is probably the only person who
can confirm whether there was any symbolism in his crazed attempt to blow up a
passenger plane on Christmas Day.

Whatever his motive and twisted logic, had he succeeded in blowing a hole in the
fuselage of Northwest Airlines flight 253 and crashing it in a suburb of
Detroit, passions would have been inflamed once again.

Is it the intention of extremists to use the sight of death and destruction of a
downed plane on American soil to fuel inter-religious hatred?

Are they set on converting the so-called "clash of civilisations" into a full
scale war between Christians and Muslims? Is this another al-Qaeda plot or is it
wider than that?

These and many other questions arise and will have to be answered as the world
ponders the chilling message contained in the abortive attempt to blow up flight
253 and that could herald a new age of terrorism.

The immediate consequences are the impact on travel safety and the added
discomfort for travellers. If it can be viewed as such, the one positive outcome
of Abdulmutallab's terror attempt was to show that already stringent security
measures at airports were flawed and could be circumvented.

Apart from compounding the economic problems of the aviation industry, new
security measures at airports are likely to discourage many would-be travellers
from putting up with the inconveniences.

Politically, the Muslim world -from Somalia in Africa and Palestine and Israel
to Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan -is a tangled mess of strife and war.
Correctly or not, Muslims will continue to count the tens of thousands already
killed in these conflicts and measure the role and culpability of countries like
the United States of America.

It is from this seething cauldron of conflict and resentment that murky
organizations like al-Qaeda can draw impressionable young people like
Abdulmutallab to blow up passenger planes.

Source: The Star website, Johannesburg, in English 29 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

Russia's Ingushetia issues terror attack warning ahead of New Year holidays

LENGTH: 441 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Nazran, 29 December: Ingushetia's law-enforcement authorities are looking for
three active members of illegal armed units who, according to intelligence
reports, are planning a major terrorist attack in the republic ahead of the New
Year holidays, an official spokesman for the Ministry of Internal Affairs of
Ingushetia told Interfax-South agency.

"The republic's law-enforcement authorities have intelligence reports that
members of illegal armed units intend to carry out a major terrorist attack in
Ingushetia during the festive period against law-enforcement officials and the
local population," the Ministry of Internal Affairs representative said.

"In particular, Aleksandr Tikhomirov, aka Said Buryatskiy, born in 1982, Ali
Taziyev, born in 1974, and Timur Tsokiyev, born in 1987, are being sought," the
Ministry of Internal Affairs representative said.

According to him, the three men have long been on the federal wanted list as
active members of the criminal underworld who have been directly behind or
carried out several major terrorist attacks, such as the [22 June] attempt on
the life of the president of Ingushetia, Yunus-Bek Yevkurov, and the terrorist
attack outside the Nazran town internal affairs directorate on 17 August this
year.

In addition, the Ministry of Internal affairs said, the authorities are looking
for local resident Ali Dzhaniyev, who is the brother of the widow of
assassinated Ingush opposition activist Maksharip Aushev. "A bomb went off [on
16 December] in a car in which Maksharip Aushev's wife was travelling. As a
result, the opposition activist's mother and one of his wife's brothers were
killed on the spot. The woman [Aushev's widow] herself and her second brother
suffered injuries. A day later, a third brother of Aushev's wife blew himself up
near a police post in Nazran," the Ministry of Internal Affairs representative
said.

According to him, Ali Dzhaniyev, the surviving brother of the opposition
activist's widow, may have also been recruited by rebels in order to carry out a
terrorist attack. His whereabouts are currently unknown.

Information about the wanted men has been broadcast on local television and
radio. Security has been stepped up ahead of the holidays at all venues where
public festivities take place and large numbers of people gather.

[The Ingush Ministry of Internal Affairs has made a televised appeal to the
people of Ingushetia for assistance in finding the wanted men, according to
ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1813 gmt 29 Dec 09.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1803 gmt 29 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     December 29, 2009 Tuesday 09:06 AM GMT

Alleged terrorist claims more ready to attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 183 words


The alleged terrorist behind the Christmas Day airliner plot is said to have
told US agents there are more people "just like him" ready to carry out future
attacks.

An al-Qaida group based in Yemen claimed responsibility yesterday for the failed
attempt to bring down Northwest Airlines Flight 253 over Detroit as US president
Barack Obama pledged to hunt down the plotters.

Meanwhile, photographs apparently showing the underpants filled with explosives
worn by alleged bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab were broadcast today by ABC
News.

The American government pictures show the singed underwear with a six-inch
packet of a high explosive called PETN sewn into the crotch, the US network
reported.

ABC News said Abdulmutallab was carrying about 80g of PETN, more than
one-and-a-half times the amount carried by "shoe bomber" Richard Reid in 2001
and enough to blow a hole in the side of an aircraft.

Abdulmutallab, 23, a former engineering student at University College London,
has reportedly told FBI agents he is one of many would-be terrorists in Yemen
ready to carry out attacks in the near future.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

Dad's Afghan attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 44 words


A  SOLDIER has relived the moment he was shot on his 27th birthday while serving
in Afghanistan.

Dad-of-one Lance Corporal Darren Buller, of 1st Battalion   Welsh Guards,  said
he had an attack of nerves when he came under fire in Helmand Province.

Full story - page 8

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    December 30, 2009 Wednesday 12:34 PM GMT

US security warned of Nigerian planning terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


American security services received intelligence suggesting "a Nigerian" in
Yemen was planning a terrorist attack weeks before a passenger jet was targeted
on Christmas Day, reports said today.

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23, is being held at a federal prison in Michigan on
a charge of trying to destroy an aircraft.

He allegedly attempted to ignite explosive stored in his underpants as the
flight from Amsterdam, carrying 280 passengers, made its final descent into
Detroit on Friday.

US network ABC News reported that information had been received by US
authorities suggesting an attack might be imminent.

Yesterday US president Barack Obama criticised "systemic" failings that allowed
Abdulmutallab to board the flight.

He said information passed on by the suspect's father was not acted on
correctly.

"Where our government has information on a known extremist and that information
is not shared and acted upon as it should have so that this extremist boarded a
plane with dangerous explosives that could have cost nearly 300 lives, a
systemic failure has occurred and I consider that totally unacceptable," he
said.

"We need to learn from this episode and act quickly to fix the flaws in our
system because our security is at stake and lives are at stake."

He added: "There were bits of information available within the intelligence
community which could have, and should have, been pieced together.

"Had this critical information been shared, it could have been compiled with
other intelligence and a fuller clearer picture of the suspect would have
emerged.

"The warning signs would have triggered red flags and the suspect would have
never been allowed to board that plane for America."

Meanwhile, it has emerged Adulmutallab oversaw a week-long "war on terror"
event, held two years ago, during his time as president of University College
London's (UCL) Islamic society.

A series of lectures were held at the UCL from January 29 to February 2 2007,
including one called "Jihad Vs Terrorism".

It was billed as a "lecture on the Islamic position with respect to Jihad and
other issues".

Advertised speakers included Respect MP George Galloway.

A note on posters produced to promote the event said it had been "approved by
Umar Farook - president of UCLU Islamic Society".

The Nigerian, now known as Umar Farouk, studied an engineering degree at the
university between 2005 and 2008 - and was Islamic society president from 2006
to 2007.

The Dutch government said a preliminary investigation had found all security
checks were carried out correctly and a passenger list, including
Abdulmutallab's name, had been cleared by American authorities.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          December 30, 2009, Wednesday

HE STRADDLED ME, HELD KNIFE TO MY THROAT AND VOWED TO KILL ME;
SHEEN'S WIFE TELLS OF HER TERROR: COURT PAPERS REVEAL DETAILS OF 'ATTACK'

BYLINE: Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 373 words


THE wife of actor Charlie Sheen claims he held a knife to her throat and
threatened to kill her after she demanded a divorce.

Brooke Mueller told police she feared for her life as the 44-year-old star
attacked her in the bedroom of her rented home in Aspen, Colorado.

The court papers state: "He grabbed Mueller by the upper part of the throat
while straddling her on the bed."

Mueller claims Sheen told her: "You better be in fear. If you tell anybody, I'll
kill you.

"Your mother's money means nothing, I have ex-police I can hire who know how to
get the job done and they won't leave any trace."

Sheen - referred to in court papers by his real name Carlos Estevez - has now
been issued with a restraining order, which bans him from booze and alcohol or
carrying a weapon.

Officers from the Pitkin County Police Department quizzed both Sheen and Mueller
after the real estate investor made a panic-stricken 911 call at 8.34am on
Christmas Day.

Officers Rick Magnuson, Casey Ward and Valerie McFarlane were told by the
dispatch centre that Sheen had a "switchblade".

Mueller told the dispatcher: "It's happened before."

Accordingtolegaldocuments, signed by Magnuson, the pair confessed the scuffle
started when Mueller announced she wanted a divorce.

Mueller,whohasnine-monthold twin sons with Sheen, claimed the Two And A Half Men
star became "enraged".

Officers said she was "crying uncontrollably" and claimed her husband only let
her out of his grasp when she said: "You're right, you're right, you're right.
I'm sorry, I love you."

Magnuson stated: "Mueller had red marks on the upper part of the front of her
neck.

"Mueller added that Estevez placed a medium-sized folding knife, blade exposed,
next to her throat, while he straddled her on the bed.

Snapping "Mueller told me that she was afraid she was going to die at that
moment."

Sheen denied pushing or hitting Mueller but admitted snapping two pairs of her
designer sunglasses.

He also denied strangling his wife and threatening her with a knife but did tell
police he had a "folding knife" in his bag.

Sheen, who wed Mueller in 2008, was handcuffed and arrested and spent around 10
hours in custody before posting pounds 5000 bail and being released.

He is due to appear in court on February 8.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHEEN FILES: The court affidavit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          December 30, 2009, Wednesday

TERROR AND THE TEARS;
TWIN TOWER ATTACKS SHAPED DECADE OF WAR

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 644 words


THE Armageddon of the Millennium Bug failed to materialise but the dawn of the
first decade of the 21st Century was a turning point for the world.

One of the worst terror attacks in history defined the decade, led the UK to war
and what felt like the brink of a precipice.

In 2000, then Prime Minister Tony Blair's wife, Cherie, gave birth to their
fourth child, Leo when she was 45 and the Queen Mother celebrated her hundredth
birthday.

But the horrific events of 9/11 in 2001dashed all expectations and opened the
chapter on a new era of terrorism.

Nearly 3000 people, including 67 Britons, were killed when terrorists hijacked
aircraft and flew them into New York's World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Within days, Tony Blair and George Bush had declared the War on Terror and
al-Qaeda became part of common parlance.

In Scotland, our largest industry, tourism, had been brought to its knees when
footand-mouth disease hit the UK.

The death of the Queen's younger sister, Princess Margaret, in February 2002 and
the loss just seven weeks later of her mother, made it a bad year for the
royals.

Few events brought more outrage than the disappearance and murder of 10-yearold
Soham girls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. The convicted killer was a local
school caretaker, Ian Huntley.

As recriminations continued to fly over the 9/11 attacks, UN inspectors arrived
in Iraq but failed to find any weapons of mass destruction.

Regardless, Operation Iraqi Freedom was launched in March 2003, at the same time
defying the will of the UN.

Scots blood from the Black Watch was among the first to be spilled as Lance
Corporal Barry Stephen, 31, from Perth, became the second British serviceman to
die in action in Iraq after he was killed in an operation south of Basra.

In 2003, the family of missing mother Arlene Fraser finally won some justice as
Elgin businessman Nat Fraser was convicted of killing his wife, who disappeared
almost five years earlier.

East Kilbride toddler Alistair Grimason, two, was shot dead as he slept in his
pram in a Turkish cafe. A lone gunman opened fire on three other men as his
mother Ozlem ate a meal in the village of Foca, near Izmir.

The murder of schoolgirl Jodi Jones from Dalkeith left the nation shocked. Her
boyfriend Luke Mitchell was convicted of her killing.

As 2003 drew to a close there was at last a positive result from the war, with
the capture of Saddam Hussein by US forces in Iraq.

The UK's most prolific serial killer Harold Shipman died in January 2004,
hanging himself in his cell at Wakefield Prison in West Yorkshire.

He had killed between 215 and 260 people.

The abduction and brutal murder of Glasgow teenager Kriss Donald marked another
horrific death.Kriss, 15, was dragged into a car by a gang before his torched
body was found the next day.

Ringleader Imran Shahid was jailed for life for his part in the killing.

There was more violence when bank manager Alistair Wilson was shot dead on his
doorstep in Nairn in the Highlands.

In Russia, about 30 terrorists held hostage 1200 Beslan residents, children,
teachers and relatives hostage at a local school. An intense firefight between
the heavily armed terrorists, Russian special forces and dozens of local
residents killed more than 330 hostages, including nearly 190 children.

The disaster at the Stockline plastics factory in Glasgow on 11 May 2004 killed
nine workers and injured 40.

Meanwhile, the Holyrood inquiry laid the blame for the pounds 413million price
tag for the Scottish parliament at the door of the civil service. Nothing could
prepare the world for the disaster of the Boxing Day tsunami in 2004.

A 30-ft tidal wave slammed in to the coasts of south-east Asia killing 300,000
people, including British tourists.

It brought devastation to Sri Lanka, India, Indonesia, India, Thailand, Malaysia
and the Maldives.

GOING IN: Britain joins US to invade Saddam's Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2004 TSUNAMI: The giant wave killed 300,000 people. 2000 EVIL: Warped
GP Harold Shipman killed many patients 2000 MY DAD'S THE PM: Leo Blair arrives
2000 CENTENARIAN: Queen Mum hits 100 2000 SO SAD: An abandoned Xmas baby 2001
FARM NIGHTMARE: Foot and mouth 2002 FAREWELL: Queen Mum is dead 2002 HORROR
TRIAL: The Soham murders 2003 GUILTY: Nat Fraser is convicted of wife Arlene's
murder 2003 PRICE OF POWER: Holyrood costs go up yet again 2004 SLAUGHTER:
Hundreds die in Russian school siege 2003 CAPTURED: Saddam Hussein is found 2003
TRAGEDY: Scots boy killed in Turkey 2003 STRANGE CASE: Jodi Jones found dead
2004 SHOT: Nairn banker's death still a mystery 2004 DEATH BLAST: Nine die in
factory 2004 HORROR: Kriss Donald is murdered

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                               December 31, 2009

Bali on new year terror attack alert

SECTION: WORLD NEWS (WORLD)

LENGTH: 233 words


The US warned of a possible New Year's Eve terrorist attack on Indonesia's Bali
island today.

The US embassy emailed its citizens quoting the island's governor as saying,
"There is an indication of an attack to Bali tonight."

No additional details were released by Indonesian authorities.

The Bali Tourism Board widely distributed the alert, the embassy said, adding
that people should monitor local media and be aware of possible threats in
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation.

"While Indonesia's counterterrorism efforts have been ongoing and partly
successful, violent elements have demonstrated a willingness and ability to
carry out deadly attacks with little or no warning," the email said.

The warning came six months after suicide blasts by a group claiming to be
Southeast Asia's arm of al Qaida killed seven people and injured more than 50
others at the Ritz-Carlton and Marriott hotels in the capital, Jakarta.

Bali has been hit hard by Islamic militants, with more than 220 deaths in
suicide bombings in 2002 and 2005 targeting Westerners. Those attacks were
carried out at restaurants and clubs frequented by foreigners.

Governor Mangku Pastika called on people not to panic but to be alert, and gave
no details about a specific threat, the statement said.

Indonesia's counterterrorism unit said it had received the warning but could not
independently verify its accuracy.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

US drone attacks adversely affecting war on terror - Pakistan Foreign Office

LENGTH: 242 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 30 December: The United States has repeatedly been conveyed that the
persistent drone attacks in tribal areas are damaging the ongoing war against
terrorism, Foreign Office spokesman Abdul Basit said Wednesday [30 December].

Talking to a private TV channel, he said: "Drone attacks are not playing
positive role in the ongoing war against terrorism."

Pakistan's foreign policy has registered numerous successes during the outgoing
year of 2009, he said, and added that a new era has begun in Sino-Pakistani
relations during the year.

The target of Sino-Pakistani bilateral trade would be enhanced up to 15bn
dollars by 2011 from current 7bn dollars. During the current year, the relations
with the European Union and Afghanistan had improved a lot, the spokesman said.

Responding to a question, he said country's foreign policy is influenced by
country's own interests and not by any foreign powers.

Denying any back-channel diplomacy with India, he said diplomacy cannot succeed
without willingness of the concerned parties.

"Despite agreeing for talks in Sharm al-Shaykh (Egypt), India had backtracked,"
he said.

Regarding Kashmir issue, he said Pakistan wants resolution of Kashmir in
accordance with UN resolutions and, above all, according to the aspirations of
the Kashmiris.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1547gmt
30 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

Relations between Nigeria, UK remains cordial despite attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 30 December

[Report by Ibrahim Chonoko: "No Nigerian in UK is being harassed - Envoy"]

Relations between Nigeria and the United Kingdom have remained cordial despite
the recent incident of the alleged attempted bombing of an America airliner by
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.

Nigeria's High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Dr Dalhatu Sarki Tafida who
disclosed this to Daily Trust in London said there was no negative attitude
towards Nigeria and Nigerians over the incident.

Some Nigerians have expressed fears that the incident could lead to the
harassment and intimidation of Nigerians in the UK because of the nationality of
Umar Abdumutallab.

But the High Commissioner said: "As far as I can notice, there is no change in
terms of relations between us and the people and the government of United
Kingdom".

No Nigeria has also being harassed as a result of the incident, he said, adding
that reports from across the country indicated that things were going on as
normal.

"Britain and its people still respect Nigeria and Nigerians. I believe there is
no cause for alarm"

"We had a series of meetings today with some law enforcement officers in the
embassy. The reports we got from them indicate that things are very normal."

The High Commissioner who described Umar Abdulmutallab's alleged action as "the
misbehaviour of a kid" at a critical stage of human development however said
parents "must preach the gospel of good upbringing so that their children will
learn to behave the normal way".

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 30 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    December 31, 2009 Thursday 07:16 AM GMT

Obama to receive report on failed terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words


US President Barack Obama will today receive a preliminary report on how a
23-year-old Nigerian with suspected terrorist ties managed to board a plane he
is accused of attempting to bomb on Christmas Day, along with recommendations on
how to prevent a sequel.

The report is just the first step in what is shaping up to be an Obama-led
effort to change and challenge US intelligence practices after an attack that
failed not because of anti-terrorism policies, but rather despite them.

Administration officials said the system to protect America's skies from
terrorists was deeply flawed and, even then, the government failed to follow its
own directives.

The White House homeland security and counterterrorism adviser was scheduled to
send Mr Obama a first summary of efforts to track more than half a million
potential terrorists who would harm the United States.

Officials said it was unlikely Mr Obama would speak publicly about the report,
although the vacationing president likely would talk several times throughout
the day with his national security team.

Mr Obama has demanded answers on why information never was pieced together by
the US intelligence community that could have prevented terrorist suspect Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab, charged with trying to destroy a Detroit-bound airliner,
from ever getting on the plane.

Mr Obama called the situation "totally unacceptable" when he met with reporters
on Tuesday and put his top intelligence officials on notice that he wanted
changes.

Administration officials have spent the last week poring over reams of data,
looking for failings that allowed Abdulmutallab to board the Northwest Airlines
flight from Nigeria by way of Amsterdam.

Officials have been sending their after-action details to John Brennan, Mr
Obama's homeland security and counterterrorism adviser, who has emerged at the
centre of a review that may call for significant changes to US intelligence
programmes.

Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, an offshoot of Osama bin Laden's group,
claimed it was behind the attempt to bomb the Northwest airliner.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 31, 2009 Thursday 10:27 AM GMT

365 of Britain's most eminent photographers attack anti-terror legislation

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 377 words


Is this the most important newspaper letter of year? 365 of Britain's most
eminent photographers have written to the Sunday Telegraph calling for
anti-terrorist legislation to be amended. They say that is being misused by the
police to stop and search photographers unnecessarily, which they find
"humiliating".

The letter says that the police are wrong to target amateur and professional
photographers using big, heavy cameras: "We do not believe it likely that real
terrorists would bother to set up a tripod or use a heavy single-lens reflex
camera, as perfectly satisfactory pictures for their purposes could be taken on
a discreet camera phone." Moreover, the signatories reckon their photography may
actually cut crime: "If our photography has an effect on law and order, it is
beneficial, as wrongdoers are unlikely to commit crimes in close proximity to
someone visibly holding a camera."

Their letter will add to the pressure on the Government because the signatories
are not a bunch of lippy anarchists, but a roll-call of establishment figures.
They include the President and dozens of Fellows of the Royal Photographic
Society, along with luminaries such as Sir George Pollock, the Old Etonian who
invented a method of making large-scale photographic murals in high quality. Two
of world's most celebrated landscape photographers, Joe Cornish and David Noton,
are also among the list. Mr Noton signed, saying that: "I have been the victim
of heavy-handed police officers and security guards many times whilst
photographing in the most innocuous circumstances."

The Government knows that there's a problem, but so far has failed to fix it. In
March, the counter-terrorism minister Vernon Coaker promised to issue advice to
police forces telling them not to misuse anti-terrorism legislation against
photographers. But it quite obviously hasn't had any effect and Mr Coaker has
moved jobs, so he escapes responsibility. Action is urgently needed- but will
the Government do anything about it?

-                                            On TelegraphTV
, Chris Cheesman, News Editor of Amateur Photographer, discusses the
heavy-handed tactics of the police.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 165 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Pakistan TV show discusses Karachi attack, "sacrifices" fighting war on terror

LENGTH: 1403 words


PTV News in Urdu at 0515 GMT on 29 December broadcasts the regularly scheduled
current affairs program titled "Good Morning Pakistan" hosted by anchor Ali
Mumtaz. This program, airing 6 days a week from Monday to Saturday, reviews
domestic and international issues which make the daily headlines; Words and
passage within double slant lines rendered in English.

Reception: Good

Duration 60 minutes

Guests: 1. Dr Tariq Fazal Chaudhry, member of the National Assembly [MNA] from
the Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz [PML-N]; 2. Ghulam Murtaza Satti, a leader of
the Pakistan People's Party [PPP]; 3. Mufti Munibur Rehman, chairman,
Ruet-e-Hilal Committee [for sighting of Eid festival moon]

Mumtaz opens the program by referring to the suicide attack on a mourning
procession in Karachi on 10 Muharram [first month of Islamic calendar]. He says
"a ranger, Abdur Razzaq, managed to stop the suicide bomber from entering the
procession, which minimized the losses. So who burned shops, buses and banks, if
it wasn't those who were attending the procession? The people and ulema
[religious scholars] have condemned the incident and termed it a conspiracy to
ignite sectarian violence." He also refers to President Asif Ali Zardari's
speech on the eve of the anniversary of the death of former Prime Minister
Benazir Bhutto, on 27 December.

Mumtaz asks Chaudhry: "What do you have to say about yesterday's incident?"
Chaudhry condemns the Karachi attack and says: "This is a sacred month, which
demands sacrifice and devotion from all people. However, after the blast we
should not consider violence against any particular party. It is the same
terrorism which is targeting other cities. The //agencies and security forces//
of Pakistan are also performing well and making sacrifices. The Pakistani nation
has the passion and commitment to fight terrorism. The people and political
parties of the country have learned that unless we have unity, we cannot face
the threat of terrorism."

Mumtaz asks Satti: "What are your views regarding the terrorist incidents in
Karachi and Muzaffarabad?" Satti says: "This is //activity// against the
country. We are stuck in a quagmire which we need to face with extreme patience
and perseverance. These terrorists martyred Benazir. It is a tragedy for the
entire nation and, as such, we should not protest by burning our properties."
Mumtaz interrupts and says that the people who were attending the mourning
procession have denied burning shops and other properties. "It appears these
terrorists have used the name of a particular party or group to ignite sectarian
violence. What are your comments regarding this?" Satti says: "Whenever such
//programs// are held, Pakistan faces problems on the law and order front. This
year we were managing well until the 7 or 8 Muharram. However, when these
terrorists do not succeed in any part of the country, they become desperate and
claim the lives of innocent people in Karachi."

Mumtaz turns to Chaudhry and asks him: "Do you think we need to adopt a new
strategy, as the current strategy has failed?" Chaudhry replies: "The political
parties have clarified that they consider this terrorism to be against the
integrity of the country. However, the religious parties have shown a reluctance
to clarify their position in this regard. The different religious parties were
talking of negotiations with these elements. Now, they have clarified that it is
religiously forbidden to claim any innocent life. Though the entire nation is
aware of this, there was a need to clarify this from an important religious
forum, for those fanatics who take the lives of innocent people under the
pretext of religion." Mumtaz interrupts and says "this might be an achievement
on the part of the ulema, but have we achieved the desired results from that?"
Chaudhry says: "Now, we have to see if only fanatical Muslims are involved in
this //unrest and other activities//, or if there are other forces involved. I
believe that most of the people who are carrying out these attacks are not
Muslims, and they are working for a foreign agenda. There have been official
statements regarding the involvement of India and other countries which are
against the integrity of Pakistan. There are certain people who are paid by
elements who have ulterior motives in derailing the democratic process." Mumtaz
interrupts and says "local people are being used for the //execution of these
policies//." Chaudhry says: "It is very //unfortunate// that we adopted the
policy of //dialogue// and //deterrence//, but completely ignored
//development//. The lack of development gave rise to //frustration// in the
affected //communities and areas//, which in turn gave rise to terrorism."

Mumtaz asks Satti: "Are they the same people whom President Asif Ali Zardari
termed as //non-state actors// and who have been responsible for many incidents
of terrorism in the past?" Satti responds: "You are absolutely right. However,
it has many aspects, and the terrorists are using all those factors which can be
employed to //destabilize the state// of Pakistan."

At this point, Mumtaz interrupts to go to live coverage of a press conference of
the head of the PML-N and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Lahore.

Mumtaz turns back to Satti and asks him if foreign elements are involved in all
these incidents. Satti says: "It started when the former President Pervez
Musharraf established a mullah-military alliance. I do not want to blame the
religious political factions, as the issue of religion is quite //touchy//.
However, these incidents could have been stopped if the decrees that are being
issued today had been issued at that time. We raised the issue of foreign
intervention even at the United Nations, and asked what is the purpose of India
having 14 consulates in Afghanistan, where it does not even have any //trade
routes//? We have issues with Russia, and then Pakistan is a nuclear power." At
this point, Mumtaz says that the issue of Pakistan being a nuclear power is
disturbing for the United States and not for India. Satti observes "Benazir
Bhutto also raised objections against the //double standards// of the United
States" and refers to the case of Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mumtaz establishes a telephone link with Rehman and asks him: "What are your
comments regarding the tragedy in Karachi?" Rehman says "it is cruelty. It is
inhuman and against the established norms of Islam. It is an organized
conspiracy to destabilize Pakistan. It is absolutely forbidden in Islam." He
says: "What happened as a //follow-up// of the blast is not a reaction, but a
criminal act against the state of Pakistan. It is also a negation of the
government's claims of //tight and foolproof// security. The estimates of the
losses are now reaching into the billions." Mumtaz interjects to asks Rehman:
"What will be the ulema's strategy, as this incident has happened after they
issued the decree?" Rehman says: "The role of the ulema is to adopt an
independent position, irrespective of the government. Rather, I would say that
the time has come for the government to do away with the policy which an
absolute dictator adopted in 2002. All political parties should evaluate their
policies again. I believe that Pakistan should adopt a policy which has the
primary objective of ensuring domestic and external security of the country.
Some international powers want to //destabilize// Pakistan to prove that it is a
//failed state//."

Mumtaz addresses Chaudhry: "Should there be any //major shift in the policies//
so that we can stop these incidents?" Chaudhry says: "The policy has been
changing gradually with the passage of time. This is not our war. Neither is it
in the interests of Pakistan, nor has it anything to do with Pakistan. It is
being fought under an international agenda. However, the people of Pakistan are
making the biggest sacrifices in this war against terror. The people and
political parties of Pakistan are committed to fighting the war together, which
is a big change."

Mumtaz asks Satti if the situation will improve "if we //cut off// from the
United States?" Satti responds: "It should not remain limited to the United
States and Russia, but foreign policy should be formulated according to the
//national interests//, irrespective of any other country."

Mumtaz thanks the participants and concludes the program.

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in Urdu 0515gmt 29 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Terror Threat: US security: Republicans attack Obama over terrorism

BYLINE: Chris McGreal Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 351 words


Republicans broke with the tradition of publicly backing a president during a
national security crisis when they accused Barack Obama of endangering Americans
and being soft on terror over al-Qaida's attempt to bomb a transatlantic flight.

Democratic party leaders hit back by saying the president's opponents were
seeking to make political gain out of the failed attack above Detroit by Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab.

Some of the strongest criticism has come from the former vice-president Dick
Cheney, who accused Obama of weakening US security.

"President Obama is trying to pretend we are not at war," Cheney said. "He seems
to think if he has a low-key response to an attempt to blow up an airliner and
kill hundreds of people we won't be at war."

Pete Hoekstra, the senior Republican on the House of Representatives
intelligence committee, shocked even some in his own party by sending out a
fundraising email denouncing Obama and his officials over the failed bombing.

"Since President Obama took office he and his leftwing cronies have taken steps
to undermine the work of our brave men and women who work tirelessly to keep us
safe," he wrote.

The attacks have infuriated Democrats because they breach the convention of
political solidarity - or at least silence - in times of security crisis.

The White House said the president had regularly described the US as being at
war with terrorists.

The chairman of the Democratic congressional campaign committee, Chris Van
Hollen, said: "It just goes to show how extreme and out of touch House
Republicans have become that their members would try to score political points
and even raise money off the terror plot to blow up a plane and kill innocent
Americans at Christmas."

Other Republicans have criticised the president for taking three days to make a
public statement on the attempted bombing. However, Democrats have noted that
George Bush took six days to speak publicly about a failed attack by the shoe
bomber Richard Reid in December 2001.

Republicans have accused Obama of being soft on terror in the aftermath of
al-Qaida's attempt to bomb a US-bound plane

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

BALI TERRORIST ATTACK FEARS;
AROUND THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 51 words


THE US yesterday warned of a possible New Year's Eve terrorist attack on
Indonesia's Bali island.

The US embassy emailed its citizens quoting the island's governor as saying:
"There is an indication of an attack to Bali tonight."

However, no additional details have been released by the Indonesian authorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK ALERT BY PM;
'BE VIGILANT' SAYS PM IN NEW TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 354 words


GORDON Brown last night warned the plot to blow up a passenger plane on
Christmas Day was a wake-up call to be alert in the face of the terrorist
menace.

In a message from No10 he said the attempt, by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, left,
was part of an "evolving terrorist threat". Al-Qaeda is still hellbent on
inflicting mass casualties, the PM wanted to remind the nation. His words
underline security experts' fear that al-Qaeda want to hit back quickly after
the failure of the Christmas Day syringe bomb plot to prove its strength.

And New Year will be seen as a vulnerable time as more people travel, crowds are
gathered and emergency services are stretched.

Mr Brown said: "In the past week we have been exposed to an evolving terrorist
threat.

"These enemies of democracy and freedom are concealing explosives in ways which
are more difficult to detect.

"The failed attack on Christmas Day reminds us international terrorism is still
a real threat.

"The Detroit plot thankfully failed. But it has been another wake-up call for
the battles we must wage, not just for security against terror but for the
hearts and minds of a generation."

No10 is not believed to have received specific intelligence which would justify
raising the official threat level from "substantial" to "severe".

But Mr Brown said: "We must never be complacent and remain always vigilant."

He added the Government was looking at "advancing our use of explosive trace
technology, full body scanners and advanced X-ray technology" at airports.

Watchlists that ban people from flying or entering the country will be tightened
and extended.

Mr Brown also pledged "support" would be given to Yemen's intelligence services
and counter-terror units.

He said: "Al-Qaeda's affiliates and allies in ungoverned or under-governed areas
like parts of Yemen, the Sahel and Somalia have raised their profile."

Meanwhile the US embassy in Bali said there was an "indication" of an attack
there last night .

The message said security systems should be on "full alert".

A spokesman for the Bali government denied there was an official warning. But he
added Bali had to remain "on alert".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLED Sahel, Yemen, Somalia DETERMINED PM Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

'BE VIGILANT' SAYS PM IN NEW TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 300 words


GORDON Brown last night warned the plot to blow up a passenger plane on
Christmas Day was a wake-up call to be alert in the face of the terrorist
menace.

In a message from No10 he said the attempt by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was part
of an "evolving terrorist threat".

Al-Qaeda is still hellbent on inflicting mass casualties, the PM wanted to
remind the nation.

His words underline security experts' fear that al-Qaeda want to hit back
quickly after the failure of the Christmas Day syringe bomb plot to prove its
strength.

And New Year will be seen as a vulnerable time as more people travel, crowds are
gathered and emergency services are stretched.

Mr Brown said: "In the past week we have been exposed to an evolving terrorist
threat.

"These enemies of democracy and freedom are concealing explosives in ways which
are more difficult to detect.

"The failed attack on Christmas Day reminds us international terrorism is still
a real threat.

"The Detroit plot thankfully failed. But it has been another wake-up call for
the battles we must wage, not just for security against terror but for the
hearts and minds of a generation."

No10 is not believed to have received specific intelligence which would justify
raising the official threat level from "substantial" to "severe".

But Mr Brown said: "We must never be complacent and remain always vigilant."

He added the Government was looking at "advancing our use of explosive trace
technology, full body scanners and advanced X-ray technology" at airports.

Watchlists that ban people from flying or entering the country will be tightened
and extended.

Meanwhile the US embassy in Bali said there was an "indication" of an attack
there last night.

A spokesman for the Bali government denied there was an official warning. But he
added Bali had to remain "on alert".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLED Sahel, Yemen, Somalia DETERMINED PM Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 165 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Confusion in Bali as US warning of terror attack threat confounds security
officials

LENGTH: 179 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE security situation in  Bali was mired in confusion last night
after the US Embassy warned of a possible New Year's Eve terrorist attack on the
Indonesian island,   but security officials said they were unaware of a threat.


An embassy e-mail to US citizens quoted the popular resort's governor as saying,
"There is an indication of an attack to Bali tonight."

Indonesian police spokesman Colonel Gde Sugianyar said the department had no
information about a specific threat on Bali and that security was in place to
ensure festivities would be safe.

The embassy said US citizens should monitor local media and be aware of possible
threats in the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation.

"While Indonesia's counterterrorism efforts have been ongoing and partly
successful, violent elements have demonstrated a willingness and ability to
carry out deadly attacks with little or no warning," the  e-mail said.

Embassy spokeswoman Corina Sanders said the warning had been widely distributed
to restaurants and cafés by the Bali Tourism Board.

But Bali Tourism Board head Ida Bagus Ngurah Wijaya said he "never issued such a
statement or letter regarding the threat of terrorist attacks".

"Our understanding is that it was sent by the governor of Bali, whom we consider
an official source," Ms Sanders said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 2501 - 2665
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:52:03

