



Download Request: Select Items: 501 - 1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:43:24
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday

Man suffers attack terror

BYLINE: Charley Morgan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: Wiltshire Times


A MAN was threatened with a spade and had stones thrown at him as he walked home
from the shops on Tuesday night.

The attack happened after the man had done some shopping at Tesco Express in
Eastbourne Road, Trowbridge at 10pm.

After leaving the store he crossed the road and walked onto the subway when two
men approached him, one of whom was carrying a long garden spade.

Both men became verbally abusive and one threatened him with the spade.

The victim managed to retrieve the spade from the two men but as he was walking
away he was hit from behind with some small stones being thrown by the two men.

He suffered minor injuries in the incident and did not need hospital treatment.

The victim remembers seeing members of the public in the area at the time and
police are appealing for any of them to come forward.

The first man is described as white, of small build, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and a baseball cap.

The second is also described as white, about 5ft 10ins, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and possible a blue t-shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Pc Gemma Payne at Trowbridge Police.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

YOU'RE A SNARL;
SEAN FEARED FOR LIFE AFTER ATTACK TERROR I'M SORRY IF THE DOGS SCARED HIM -
TURLEY

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN MAGUIRE AND GERALDINE COMISKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words


YOU'RE A Star favourite Sean Ban Breathnach told last night how he feared for
his life after he was attacked by two devil dogs between rehearsals for the hit
charity TV show.

Sean, who was still recovering from the terrifying ordeal yesterday, was set
upon by the giant Rottweillers as he went for a walk near his hotel.

Only for his quick-thinking, the RTE star fears he came within inches of being
savagely mauled by the Rottweillers - which are used as guard dogs by murdered
Veronica Guerin's widower Graham Turley.

Terrified Sean, 58, suffers from Type II diabetes and must take regular exercise
to keep the disease under control.

The Irish-speaking favourite was taking in his daily five-mile walk as
recommended by docs when the maniac mutts seemed to come out of nowhere.

Sean, from Galway, turned his back to the vicious dogs and kept still as they
pinned him against a wall.

He eventually got away but was physically sick just yards up the road from where
the terrifying incident happened.

Shaken Sean told the Irish Sunday Mirror: "I have to say I was pretty scared. In
fact I was terrified. It just happened out of the blue.

"I was out walking because I have to because I have diabetes. I'm out up to two
hours a day.

"I was minding my own business when all of a sudden these two dogs came at me
from out of the blue.

"They started to go mad and were going for me. I was afraid of my life of them.

"Don't ask me how I remembered but I recalled a friend of mine, who has a fear
of dogs, telling me I should always stay still if attacked.

"I turned my back and remained as still as I could and tried to blend in with
the wall but I was still terrified.

"They pawed me but eventually left me alone and ran off but I walked up the road
and I got sick because I had got that much of a fright."

Sean is staying in a hotel near Dublin airport during the filming of the RTE
show, which finishes next Sunday, and was out walking in lanes nearby when the
dogs appeared.

Owner Graham yesterday apologised to Sean but denied his dogs would have
attacked the RTE star on the road.

GRAHAM, who lives near the airport, said he keeps the animals, named Tiocfaidh
Ar La and Madra, as guard dogs after he was threatened in the past - even since
his famous wife's death.

Builder Graham said: "I keep them as guard dogs, along with the cameras and
alarms, because of who I am - because I'm Veronica's husband. I have had people
threatening me in the past.

"The only way my dogs would have wandered out on the road would be if someone
enticed them.

"In fairness they might have got out but not that I know of.

"There's a football club up the road and they had a few parties in the last
week.

"Young lads were going by the house because they had to walk down this road to
get taxis. I found lots of bottles thrown over the wall.

"Sometimes the lads tease the dogs and the dog run out. The dogs just want to
play.

"I apologise to Sean Ban if he was frightened.

"But he's a brave man to be walking that road at night. It has no lights on it,
it's very narrow and it's the main road to Malahide.

"It's dangerous enough in the daytime as you can see."

A source on the show said: "This was no publicity stunt - Sean's a very lucky
man.

"Only for his quick-thinking we could have had a very real tragedy on our hands.

"We're not talking about a small stray dog here. We're talking about two big
Rottweillers who could rip a man apart.

"Thankfully Sean did the right thing and wasn't hurt but he got the fright of
his life. We're all just glad he didn't suffer any physical injuries and was
able to carry on with the show."

Sean, who admits he doesn't have a note in his head, is fast becoming one of the
favourite's to win the live TV show for his chosen charity the Carers
Association of Ireland.

Despite his dodgy versions of a number of classic songs, the crowd have taken
the father of four to their hearts.

Top bookie Paddy Power has already slashed odds on Sean from an outside bet of
33-1 to second favourite at 4-1 behind popular GAA legends Barney Rock, Jack
O'Shea and Dave Beggy.

Sports fanatic Sean said people might think he's not taking the show too
seriously but he said he's determined to be there for the final.

"I'm the first to admit that I might not have the greatest voice on the show.

"But we put in a hell of a lot of work and we begin rehearsing from 9.30am until
late at night.

"Anything I do I want to do it to the best of my ability and that includes this
show.

"People were laughing at the start but they soon realised I have a chance. I
think I'm a born showman and I'll give it my best until the people decide
they've had enough of me.

"I've been involved with the Carers Association for the past three years and I
want to raise as much money for them as possible - they're a really great bunch
of people who deserve all the help they can get," he said.

SEAN also revealed that he is prepared to go to any lengths to win the show for
the Carer's Association - as RTE star Grainne Seoige discovered to her peril.

"Grainne is a neighbour of mine from Galway and, indeed, she even babysat for me
when she was younger.

"I went to the Galway Races during the week and people thought I was actually
the Pope - it was amazing what's happened since the show.

"I met up with Grainne and she asked me how far I would be prepared to go to win
the show. Daithi O'Shea suggested I should take off my shirt to win it but I
told Grainne that if it comes to it I am prepared to take off my trousers - and
I will," he added.

The former SBB Ina Hui star also revealed how he hasn't touched a drop of
alcohol for 23 days in preparation for the show.

"I made myself a promise that I wouldn't have a drink until after I finished in
the show and I'm sticking with it.

"Not so much as a sip of wine will pass my lips until then.

"I often do that when I am working on something big, be it an All-Ireland final
or whatever.

"And I have to say I feel much better for it. I've already lost 5lbs since the
show started.

"I've come this far that I want to stay in as long as I can.

"John Aldridge has already shown that it's not about the best voice but the
person who puts on the best show and gets the audience going.

"If that's the case then I think I'm in with a hell of a good chance," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Apology.. Graham Turley keeps dogs, above, for safety; Spotlight..
You're A Star's Sean Ban Breathnach "came within inches of being mauled";
Charity... Sean is singing his heart out for the Carers Association of Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

VIVIENNE'S SHOCK EXIT STUNS VIEWERS;
SEAN FEARED FOR LIFE AFTER ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BY LISA O'CONNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 239 words


FORMER model Vivienne Connolly was sensationally knocked out of the Charity
You're A Star show last night..

The blonde stunner, who was singing on behalf of Temple Street Children's
Hospital, had been one of the favourites to win the show having impressed
viewers with her looks and singing voice.

A shocked show insider said: "Nobody can believe it has happened. Vivienne was a
real contender - probably in the top three. But you just never know what's going
to happen on this show - that's what makes it so exciting."

After last night's upheaval the favourites are the All-stars - GAA legends Jack
O'Shea, Barney Rock and Dave Beggy, who have been crowd-pleasers since day one.

Also emerging as a favourite, despite his trademark gimmick - a curious lack of
singing talent - is Sean Ban Breathnach.

Sean said: "I will do whatever it takes to win the contest and as much money as
possible for the Carers Association - even if I have to resort to taking off my
trousers."

Battling performances from outsiders weathergirl Nuala Carey and Rugby star
Shane Byrne kept them in the contest.

RTE's Seoige and O'Shea star Joe O'Shea is also an outside bet to scoop the
title for the RNLI.

The votes also flowed in for The Roses Of Tralee who could yet scoop the prize.

Last year the show raised EUR370,000 - but his year a show spokesman said: "The
reaction to the show has been better than ever and we're hoping to top the
EUR500,000 mark this year."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ousted... Connolly

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

GET LINDA BACK SAY LOYAL FANS;
SEAN FEARED FOR LIFE AFTER ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 192 words


LINDA Martin's army of fans have collected 26,000 on-line signatures to get her
reinstated as a You're A Star judge.

Now bookies Boylesports are offering punters odds of 9-4 that she'll make a
comeback on the judging panel.

The former Eurovision winner, below, was booted off the show this season to be
replaced by ex-beauty queen Amanda Brunker.

But avid fan Alisa Rose, from Ballyjamesduff, Co Cavan, has been running a
campaign to force the programme's producers to bring Linda back.

The petition has even been signed by Linda herself in RTE studios after her
recent appearance on Miriam.

But Alisa claims the fans have been ignored by the production company,
Screentime Shinawil.

She said: "You're a Star is supposed to be about the public voting in for
people. But they are not interested in public opinion because they've gone
against it by dumping Linda.

"We think she's a great role-model for aspiring stars. She's been in showbiz a
long time, she's done well for herself, she looks great - and she knows how to
pick talent."

Alisha added: "We haven't handed the petition to RTE - just Shinawil.

"We blame them for axing Linda because they produce the show."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Floods, terror attacks and Tories. . .Gordon Brown has cruised through his first
month. But now homes are being repossessed, has his luck run out?;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 39

LENGTH: 751  words


FLOODS, terror attacks and now foot and mouth. Gordon Brown has certainly had a
testing first month. But one snippet of data is likely to give him more
sleepless nights than all the crises put together - home repossessions are back.

When the floodwaters have dried up and the last diseased animal has been
slaughtered, the public's attention will turn to the increasingly parlous state
of the economy - and Mr Brown's central role in it.

The news is not good. The latest figures, buried in the bad news from the
countryside, reveal that home repossessions are running at the rate of 77 a day,
a rise of 30 per cent in just a year. With the full effects of five interest
rate rises still working their way through, the situation is likely to get
worse.

The number of people falling into mortgage arrears has risen by four per cent
since December. And the number declaring themselves insolvent has soared to
almost 300 a day - a figure rightly labelled "truly astonishing" by Lib Dem
Treasury spokesman Vince Cable.

Mr Brown's 11-year stewardship of the economy is inextricably linked to the
massive growth in Britain's personal-debt mountain.

When the crash comes there will be no place for him to hide. If the economy goes
down it w ill cost him the next election.

By comparison, the crises he has faced so far have been straightforward. In fact
it's tempting to say he has had a lucky start. Foot and mouth may yet prove to
be the exception - it is too early to tell. But on all other fronts Mr Brown has
ridden his luck to enjoy an extraordinarily successful first month.

His supporters point out that he had to face two major terrorist attacks within
days of taking office. But he had the good fortune to be dealing with some of
the most incompetent bombers ever to associate themselves with Al Qaeda. It's an
awful thought, but had the bombs gone off, Mr Brown might well be facing far
more difficult questions today.

The Prime Minister has also been lucky with the weather. The floods that have
devastated communities this summer had the potential to do real damage to a
politician who cut the flood defence budget last year.

Fortunately for Mr Brown, however, Tory leader David Cameron neutered his
ability to criticise by jetting off to Rwanda while his Oxfordshire constituency
was under water. So far, the Prime Minister has got away with it.

Even the trip to the United States billed as a diplomatic tightrope walk proved
easier than expected. For domestic purposes Mr Brown had to distance himself
from the unpopular George Bush, without offending the Americans. Tricky. But a
weakened President Bush was so desperate to keep Britain on side in Iraq that he
ignored Mr Brown's appalling body language and lavished praise on him
regardless. In the end it was a piece of cake.

Her Majesty's Opposition have also done their bit. Everyone knew that Mr Brown
would enjoy a "bounce" in the opinion polls by virtue of the simple fact that he
was not Tony Blair. It has been larger than expected, putting Labour as much as
nine points ahead of the Tories. But not even the most ardent Labour supporter
believes it will last.

And many Conservatives have reacted to this first test of their own leader by
hitting the panic button. Suddenly all the focus is on Mr Cameron's leadership,
giving the fledgling Prime Minister a free ride. Not that he needed it. Mr Brown
has enjoyed a remarkably good press. The PM has rightly been praised for
ditching Blairite follies like supercasinos and the downgrading of cannabis. But
many of his announcements have received little critical attention. As with Mr
Brown's Budgets, the devil is in the detail, and much does not stand up to close
scrutiny.

The media has also - so far - bought in to Mr Brown's "unspun" image as the
humble servant of the people who eschews the fancy foreign holidays of his
predecessor for a week in Dorset. If he ever gets back to his family break, our
Prime Minister can be justified in feeling pleased with himself. He has made a
good start, better than he could have hoped for, and far better than his enemies
predicted.

But, as he surely knows, the real challenges are still to come. Foot and mouth
has the potential to be a disaster. There is no clear way out of Iraq, or of
dealing with the UK's terror problems. Labour is in debt to the tune of GBP
27million. And the media honeymoon will not survive the row over the EU
Constitution.

Above all, there is the economy, and the grisly news that the good times are
back for Britain's home repossessors.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAUNTY: But the economy could wipe the smile from the PM's face

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 August 5, 2007

Apparently, one in 11 British Muslims actively supports terrorist attacks over
here

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 226 words


Apparently, one in 11 British Muslims actively supports terrorist attacks over
here and a further 20% or so "empathise" with those who carry out such attacks.

This warning comes not from the BNP, but from a bloke called Haras Rafiq, who is
an adviser to the government. I'd put the figures slightly higher -based on
previous opinion poll findings -but Rafiq seems to be in the right sort of area.

That's something like 400,000-plus British citizens ready to either strap on the
Semtex or smile indulgently while someone else does so.

Who knows if this will come as a shock to the government, the leaders of Muslim
organisations and the BBC which insist that terrorism has "nothing to do with
Islam" and that each act of carnage is simply the work of rogue nutters and
wholly unconnected to the religion to which, seemingly by coincidence, they
adhere.

That terrorist attacks from people who coincidentally happen to be Methodists or
Unitarians or Hindus have been thin on the ground has not dissuaded the
authorities from this interesting, counter-intuitive point of view. Perhaps
Rafiq will have more luck.

He might add, too, that in one poll last year 40% of British Muslims wished to
see sharia law imposed in the country and that the proportion of those who
support or "empathise" with terrorist attacks increases markedly when Israelis
are the chosen victims.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 6, 2007 Monday

Macedonian police confirm 'terrorist attack' on government building

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report in English by Macedonian news agency Makfax

["Terrorist Attack on Macedonian Government's Building" - Makfax headline]

Skopje, 6 August: An armed terrorist attack on the building of the Macedonian
Government took place last night, the government's spokesman said, and the
police confirmed the incident.

Spokesman Ivica Bocevski told Makfax that the government's building was hit by
two rifle grenades last night, a half an hour past midnight [2230 gmt]. He
explained that the grenades of South African origin were fired from a distance
of 400 meters.

The incident left no injured and there is still no information as to the
material damage.

"The government wants to send a message to all who participated in the terrorist
attack that some day or other they will end up behind bars. The attackers should
know - we received the message, but the government will remain steadfastly on
the current course," Bocevski said.

The Interior Ministry confirmed the attack and announced releasing of an
official statement soon.

Source: Makfax news agency, Skopje, in English 1315 gmt 6 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday

Breakaway region leader accuses Georgia of terror attacks

LENGTH: 200 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Tskhinvali, 7 August: The president of South Ossetia, Eduard Kokoyty, said his
republic will appeal to international organizations to investigate Georgia's
terrorist actions in its territory.

"We have serious proof that terror attacks staged in South Ossetia over the
recent years had been masterminded by the Georgian special services with the
political approval from the Georgian leadership," Kokoyty told Interfax today.

"We shall request that the international community should carry a most thorough
investigation into Georgia's terrorist activities in South Ossetia. We are
accusing Georgia of state-sponsored terrorism," he said.

Kokoyty confirmed that South Ossetia would not attend a meeting of the Joint
Control Commission in Tbilisi. "We are ready to meet in any place except
Tbilisi, because no guarantees of security are being provided by Georgia," he
said. "We are not withdrawing from the negotiating process, but we have no
intention to discuss the status of our republic. South Ossetia is an independent
state and its status will not be a subject for any talks," Kokoyty said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0731 gmt 7 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Salmonds tribute to terror attack heroes

BYLINE: James Mills

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 287 words


HUNDREDS of people were honoured last night at a special reception to thank
those who helped to deal with the terror attack on Glasgow Airport.

Alex Salmond paid tribute to an unprecedented gathering of about 500 members of
the public and workers from the emergency, health and civic services.

The First Minister said that their actions following an alleged car bomb attempt
on June 30 had left Scotland in their debt.

Guests were invited to the ceremony at Glasgows Kelvingrove Museum by Mr Salmond
to allow him to thank them for helping to avert a major disaster.

Among the guests were some of the first people to deal with the blazing Jeep
that crashed into the airports main entrance including baggage handler John
Smeaton, 31, and other members of the public who tackled the suspects.

Scores of police, fire and ambulance personnel many in uniform attended, along
with airport workers and medical staff from local hospitals.

Scotlands Muslim community was quick to condemn the attack and its
representatives were also present last night.

Mr Salmond told guests that all of those at the gathering had demonstrated a
triumph of collective spirit.

He added: Tonight we recognise the courage and commitment to public safety
demonstrated by each of these people. The Glasgow attack showed that Scotland is
not immune from the threat of terrorism.

But as a nation we united and illustrated an absolute determination to prevent
the attack from disrupting daily life.

The SNP leader mentioned Mr Smeaton during his speech, praising his actions and
also noting his now famous term banjoed used by the airport worker when
recounting on TV how he had tackled a suspect.

Mr Smeaton was a guest of the Prime Minister at Downing Street last week.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Imam attacks terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 90 words


A Notts imam has condemned 'evil' acts of terrorism  during a speech at an
international conference.

Musharraf Hussain, imam of the al-Shifa mosque in Bobbers Mill, said "no noble
goals can be met by evil means" at the Tools for Change conference in
Switzerland.

He is president of the Christian-Muslim Forum in Britain.

Imam Musharraf, a leading member at the Muslim Council of Britain, gave a speech
to the conference on the value of peace-building.

The week-long seminar, in Caux, aims to build relationships of trust across the
world's divides.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday

President of Russia's Dagestan says number of terror attacks decreasing

LENGTH: 459 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 8 August: The number of terrorist attacks and attacks against
law-enforcement agencies in Dagestan has decreased significantly in recent
times, the republic's president, Mukhu Aliyev, has said.

"Forty seven terror attacks were carried out in the republic in 2005, but only
16 in 2006. This year, apart from the murder of the republic's deputy mufti,
there has been no more terrorist attacks. The development is the same regarding
attempts on the lives of law-enforcement agency representatives," Aliyev told
Interfax in an interview on Wednesday [8 August].

He said that over 120 law-enforcement agencies' representatives had died in
Dagestan since 2005.

"The main goal of these criminals is to weaken our operational and investigative
staff and influence its morale and authority. But these illegal elements will
not succeed. It is no exaggeration to say that brave and courageous people work
in our law-enforcement agencies. They are repelling criminals and terrorists,
but in doing so they often become targets for the enemies of the state," Aliyev
said.

He believes that in order to fight crime in Dagestan more efficiently, more
coordination between the law-enforcement agencies is necessary.

"They also have a lot of unsuitable people in their ranks, and even traitors,
criminals and bribe-takers. Sometimes the authority of the law-enforcement
agencies is undermined by their own unwillingness to act strictly in accordance
with the law. I am talking about unnecessarily harsh measures and violations of
procedural norms, which provokes a reverse reaction with acts of violence
against policemen. This naturally complicates the situation," Aliyev said.

"It is precisely policemen's errors and miscalculations, unrestraint, and often
also incompetence and grubbiness that various criminals and terrorist count on,"
Aliyev added.

"The rule of law and strict observance of the rights of citizens have to be the
main principle in countering the terrorist threat, even if these citizens are
suspected of committing terrorist attacks or aiding terrorists. Without this
there will be no trust in the law-enforcement agencies on the part of our
citizens," he said.

Aliyev also said that thanks to the efforts of the law-enforcement agencies,
many acts of terror had been prevented in Dagestan.

"The law-enforcement agencies have unveiled a series of large-scale terrorist
attacks being prepared, they have defused dozens of explosive devices,
discovered caches with an arsenal of firearms and ammunition and destroyed a
large number of gunmen and their leaders. But this does not mean that we now
have the reason to become complacent," Aliyev said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0917 gmt 8 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 August 9, 2007

Terror attack cut travellers by 20,000;
But figures show Glasgow is still top Scots airport

BYLINE: By GORDON THOMSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 308 words



HIGHLIGHT: Despite the terror attack, more than 970,000 people checked in at
Glasgow Airport in July, making it Scotland's most used terminal Emirates
enjoyed its busiest month at Glasgow


THE number of passengers using Glasgow Airport fell by more than half in the 24
hours after the failed terror attack, figures show.

Just 14,206 people used the terminal on July 1 - the day after the failed
suicide mission - against an average of 33,400 daily passengers for the time of
year.

The fall was mainly due to the terminal being closed for almost 24 hours after
the Saturday afternoon attack.

Despite the impact of the attack, Glasgow Airport was still the busiest in
Scotland last month.

July saw three of the top five busiest days of the year, and one of the
airport's airlines having its busiest month.

Airport owners BAA said there were 970,403 passengers in July, more than 6-per
cent down on July last year.

But that monthly total meant in the 12 months to July it handled 8.8million
passengers - unchanged from the year before.

Gordon Dewar, Glasgow Airport managing director, said: "It was inevitable the
attack would have an impact on passenger numbers in July, with thousands of
passengers unable to fly inthe immediate aftermath of the incident.

"However, thanks to the tremendous team effort of BAA staff, the emergency
services and our airline partners, the airport was back in business within 24
hours."

During July, Emirates flew a record number of passengers to Glasgow's most
popular long-haul destination, Dubai.

Numbers rose 17-per cent and bookings for August are up 30-per cent.

Budget airline easyJet will soon launch a new daily service to Paris and work is
continuing on a GBP30million 'skyhub' development at the airport.

The two-storey building will give extra seating capacity on the ground floor,
new shops and restaurants, and a purpose-built security search area on the first
floor.

Mr Dewar said: "When it opens in October 2008, it will transform the terminal."

At Edinburgh, passengers for July rose 6.3-per cent to 916,690.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 9, 2007

Terror attack fails to put off passengers as numbers rise;
Glasgow remains busiest airport in Scotland

BYLINE: STEWART PATERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 461 words


GLASGOW Airport maintained its status as the busiest in Scotland last month
despite the impact of the failed terror attack on passenger numbers and the
highlighting of concerns over climate change.

Cancellations led to 20,000 fewer passengers using the airport on July 1, the
day after the attack. Numbers for the whole month were down slightly, by 6per
cent compared with June.

The summer months are traditionally Glasgow's busiest, and despite the drop in
numbers, 970,400 passengers used the airport in July.

The figure kept it ahead of Edinburgh Airport, which handled 916,700 passengers,
a 6per cent rise. Aberdeen recorded a 10per cent increase.

It was suggested people may have cancelled flights due to fears over flying
after the terror attack when a Jeep was driven into terminal building on June
30. However, passenger numbers continued to rise, with the Glasgow dip due to
cancelled services.

Scotland's airports also enjoyed a higher level of growth than the UK's busiest.

A total of 20,972,000 passengers flew in and out of Glasgow, Edinburgh and
Aberdeen airports in the 12 months to July 31, up 3per cent compared with the
previous year.

The comparable increase for the three main London airports, Heathrow, Gatwick
and Stansted, was less than 0.5per cent.

Heathrow even suffered a drop of 1.7per cent, amid recent complaints to BAA
about conditions for passengers.

July was the busiest month yet for the Emirates service from Glasgow to Dubai,
with a 17per cent rise in sales. Advance sales for August were up 30per cent.

European destinations like Milan, Madrid, Stockholm and Zurich, popular with
short break holidaymakers travelling from Edinburgh, have helped maintain its
airport's growth.

Services to Paris, Copenhagen and Oslo were most popular in Aberdeen.

Alan Barr, of BAA Scotland, said: "Over the past 12 months, international
traffic at our airports has increased by almost 10per cent, reflecting our
ongoing investment in route development. That has helped attract almost 40 new
international routes to Scotland in the past year alone."

Overall BAA had its busiestever month in July, handling a record 15.1 million
passengers at its seven UK airports, a 0.2per cent rise on the total for July
last year.

Fears about air travel's environmental impact appear to have had no impact on
business at Scotland's airports.

Environmental campaigners say air travel, while sometimes the only available
option, must be cut if climate change is to be seriously tackled. A Scottish
Green Party spokesman said: "In the past figures like these were celebrated and
taxpayers' money used to subsidise new services through the route development
fund.

"The test of any government that purports to be green is whether this will be
seen as a cause for concern among ministers."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 10, 2007 Friday

Scientists call for defensive action over radiological attacks: Litvinenko
murder could inspire new terror method: More restricted access to some
substances urged

BYLINE: Julian Borger

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 499 words


A group of scientists warned yesterday that terrorists could learn from last
year's murder of Alexander Litvinenko to carry out radiological attacks on
cities far more devastating than a dirty bomb.

While a dirty bomb - using explosives to disperse radioactive material - would
be unlikely to kill more than a hundred people, the scientists argue, several
hundred could be killed if they swallowed or inhaled the material, like Mr
Litvinenko, who drank tea laced with a lethal isotope, polonium-210, in London
last November.

In an article in the journal Survival, the three authors from King's College
London call on the government to take precautionary measures, for example
restricting access to radioactive materials which are now commonly available and
easy to dissolve in water, allowing them to be sprayed over a large number of
people.

"Terrorists have already shown considerable interest in acquiring 'dirty bombs'.
They may now try to replicate the murder of Litvinenko on a larger scale, or
contrive other means to place radioactive sources inside, or in direct contact
with, their victims," warns the article in Survival, a quarterly published by
the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

The authors call such methods I3, for inhalation, ingestion and immersion. One
of the writers, Peter Zimmerman, a nuclear physicist, said yesterday that a
well-planned radiological attack "would be capable of killing several hundred,
maybe upwards of a thousand, and paralysing a city without any question at all."

The article does not provide details of the most devastating method of attack
the authors have conceived, for security reasons, but Professor Zimmerman
described one scenario using a water-soluble radioactive isotope widely used in
hospitals and industry: "I can then tap into the anti-fire spray in a theatre,
and if I can trigger the spray, I can soak everyone in the room."

Polonium-210, which was used in Mr Litvinenko's murder, is even more deadly
because it emits alpha radiation, which is not picked up by radiation sensors.

The King's College scientists also believe that an I3 attack would inspire more
terror than a chemical or biological or even a dirty bomb attack, because of
public horror that the radioactive material could be widely dispersed before it
became clear the attack had taken place.

Another of the authors, Brooke Rogers, a social psychologist who is working with
the Home Office to help prepare the government response to such an attack, said:
"People are less afraid of a biological attack, like the plague, because they
believe it can be treated."

She said an intensive information campaign was necessary to keep the public
informed and prevent panic. Prof Zimmerman argued other steps could be taken,
making industrial and medical radiation sources much harder to come by. For
example, the production of the water-soluble radioactive isotope in powdered
form should be stopped, and replaced in hospitals and factories with a glassy
non-soluble variant.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2007 Monday

Philippine military implicates Indonesia terror suspects in Abu Sayyaf attacks

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report in English by Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post website on 12
August

Manila: Two top Indonesian terror suspects were involved in deadly clashes
between Muslim insurgents and army soldiers in the southern Philippines last
week, the military chief said Sunday.

The Philippines military's chief of staff, General Hermogenes Esperon, said Umar
Patek and Dulmatin provided unspecified help to Abu Sayyaf militants and other
insurgents who killed 25 soldiers Thursday (9 Aug) in a road ambush and
subsequent fighting on the southern island of Jolo. Dulmatin goes by a single
name.

"We have a report that they (Patek and Dulmatin) were in the encounters,"
Esperon told reporters. He did not elaborate.

The two Indonesians would be among the insurgents troops hunt for in the next
few days, he said.

Dulmatin and Patek have reportedly been given sanctuary in Jolo by Abu Sayyaf
commanders Radulan Sahiron and Umbra Jumdail, whose forces, along with Moro
National Liberation Front guerrillas, killed the 25 soldiers.

Jumdail's son and a key Sahiron aide were among those killed in Thursday's
clashes in the Maimbung township on Jolo, Esperon said.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 12 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            August 13, 2007, Monday
                                   1 Edition

Race incidents up in wake of terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 138 words


RACIST incidents reported to police in the Lothians rose by a third in the wake
of the terror attack at Glasgow Airport.

Lothian and Borders Police said there was an increase of 29 racist incidents in
July from the 116 reported in June.

New figures for Scotland reveal a surge in cases of violent attacks, abuse and
harassment in the four weeks after the car bombing.

The biggest increase has been recorded in the Strathclyde region, where there
were more than 250 incidents.

More than ten per cent of these were directly linked to the airport attack on
June 30.

Muslim leaders said the attacks showed a minority of people were targeting
Asians because they wrongly believed they were potential terrorists. Justice
Secretary Kenny MacAskill said: "The attack at Glasgow Airport was perpetrated
by individuals and not by communities."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday

Ethiopian police foil terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 289 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 14 August: The joint National Intelligence and Security Service and
the Federal Police Anti-Terrorism Task Force has disclosed that it has foiled
attempted acts of terror.

In a statement it sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Tuesday [14 August],
the task force said this latest attempt of terrorism was found to be an
orchestration of the rogue government in Asmara, which handed down the missions
of evil to OLF [Oromo Liberation Front].

The statement said the task force is working relentlessly to ensure that the
people throughout the country celebrate the millennium free of security fears.

It said this latest attempt was targeted at bombing infrastructures and public
institutions and assassinating figures, including the president of Adama
University.

The task force said it apprehended the coordinators of and those given missions
in the foiled acts of terror as well as arms including 9 explosives, 12 fuses
and a Kalashnikov.

It is a sha'biyyah [Eritrea] trained OLF terror ring which had its hardware
house in Mojo, its exchange spot in Nazret [both places south of Addis Ababa]
and its mission targets mainly in Addis Ababa, it said.

The task force called for vigilance on the part of the people in its efforts to
track down on and crack any possible attempts of terror.

It said it would remain ever vigilant to ensure peaceful celebrations of the
millennium, which the government in Eritrea and its stooges are working against.

It recalled that a similar terror ring was dismantled by the task force,
including one targeted against the 8th AU assembly of heads of state and
government.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 14 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      August 14, 2007 Tuesday 12:04 PM GMT

EDITORS STAR FEARS TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 85 words


EDITORS guitarist CHRIS URBONOWICZ is so scared of the constant terror threat
posed to the U.K, he has become a recluse.

The British rocker admits he seldom goes out in London, preferring to stay in
the safety of his own home.

He says, "England is not a great place to be at the moment. I retreated high up
in my flat. I tried to avoid everything that has happened."

Britain remains under threat of a terrorist attack following the London bombings
on 7 July in 2005 and the failed bombing attempts two weeks later.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2007 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           August 15, 2007, Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Six weeks on, still no terror attack barrier at JLA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words


BAGGAGE trolleys are still being used as part of a security barrier at Liverpool
John Lennon Airport - almost six weeks after a Jeep drove into Glasgow Airport
in an alleged terrorist attack.

A series of permanent concrete bollards have been installed to protect the
airport's frontage, but a section is still only protected by the trolleys, which
were lined up as a temporary measure immediately following the Glasgow attack on
June 30. Jeep driver Kafeel Ahmed died later in hospital.

Hours after the drama in Glasgow, JLA was closed when a suspicious vehicle was
found nearby.

John Lennon Airport (JLA) said days later a concrete barrier would be completed
as soon as possible to increase security, and that the baggage trolleys were a
makeshift solution. Last night, the airport said it wanted to reassure the
public.

"The majority of concrete bollards have been installed outside the front of the
terminal building as a permanent security fixture," said a spokeswoman.

"Additional blocks are on order to replace any remaining baggage trolleys which
are currently in situ. JLA has invested heavily to ensure public safety is the
top priority."

At the time of the security alerts, JLA said less radical changes were needed in
Liverpool compared with other airports because the majority of cars were unable
to stop in front of the terminal building.

However, exceptions made for deliveries and people with access difficulties were
stopped, leaving no access to the entrance for any vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trolleys are in place until more concrete blocks arrive to complete a
permanent security barrier in front of JLA Picture: MARTIN
BIRCHALL/mb140807airport-1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

WOMAN PRISON OFFICER IN JAIL SEX TERROR;
HORROR AT INMATE ATTACK ON YOUNG MOTHER

BYLINE: BY JIMMY CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 312 words


A WOMAN prison officer was subjected to a terrifying sex attack behind bars, it
was revealed yesterday.

The abuse emerged as a report shows 65 per cent of warders do not feel safe when
working with inmates.

Just two days ago the Irish Daily Mirror revealed how officers in Dublin's
Mountjoy Jail were on high alert amid fears a gun had been smuggled in.

Eugene Dennehy, deputy general secretary of the Prison Officers' Association,
said: "This is an important report which must not be ignored.

"This is the first time that employees in the Prison Service have had an
opportunity to independently express their views on their work, their supports,
risks and other work related issues.

"The findings in some instances are quite alarming and simply cannot be ignored
by prison management." He revealed how a female officer was sexually attacked
behind bars, leaving the young mother severely traumatised.

It is understood a dangerous inmate put his hand between her legs and caused
serious injuries.

Warders have also revealed how the son of a colleague was abducted and was told
he would be killed if a ransom was not paid. In another case the 14-year-old
daughter of a warder was called a "whore" in a school yard because her dad
worked in a jail.

University of Limerick researchers surveyed 330 warders for the study
commissioned by the POA.

They found almost half of the staff had been physically attacked or threatened
on a daily or weekly basis in the last year.

It added that 86 per cent of warders do not feel the Prison Service is doing
enough to ensure their safety.

Mr Dennehy claimed if the Prison Service failed to take action then the POA
would be calling on the Justice Minister to intervene.

The Irish Daily Mirror revealed earlier this week inmates threatened to burn
down Mountjoy jail over plans to screen them from visitors.

Irish Mirror Comment: Page 10

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FURY: POA's Mr Dennehy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Essex Chronicle

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

Revenge attack terror

BYLINE:  Dave Smith

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 338 words


Two Men have each been jailed for 18 months for a terrifying revenge attack
which left two Witham men injured.

Chelmsford Crown Court heard on Friday how John Griffiths was attacked at his
home in Humber Road, Witham, and at one point had a bottle broken over his head.

His stepfather, Alan Griffiths, was also injured during the incident on April 11
this year.

Dean Morton, 23, of Ness Walk, Witham, admitted charges of causing actual bodily
harm to John Griffiths, assaulting Alan Griffiths by beating and causing £200
worth of damage to a door. Ben Poulter, 22, of Howard Close, Braintree, admitted
the actual bodily harm and damage charges.

Judge Charles Gratwicke told the pair: "This was mindless violence fuelled by
drink and there is no excuse for such behaviour. This must have been a
terrifying experience for both of these men."

Richard Kelly, prosecuting, said trouble had started two days earlier when
Morton's mother, Angela, got involved in an incident with John Griffiths and
told him she was going to get her son to sort him out.

At around 1.50am in the morning of April 11 Mr Griffiths answered a knock on his
door and when he opened it Morton and Poulter started punching and kicking him.

He was hit on the head with a bottle during the attack before he managed to get
away.

The noise alerted his stepfather Alan Griffiths who lived across the hallway but
shortly after he opened his door he was assaulted by Morton who pushed him.

Mr Kelly said John Griffiths managed to get back inside his flat before Morton
and Poulter returned and began trying to smash the door down.

Mr Kelly added: "This was a revenge attack arising from what happened two days
before."

Claire Ashcroft, for Morton, said he took full responsibility for his actions.

He had been drinking and this was a problem he was now coming to terms with.

Christopher Whitcombe, for Poulter, told the court he also had an alcohol
problem but had the motivation to change his life.

Morton and Poulter had expressed remorse for what they had done, the court
heard.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Essex Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                                August 16, 2007

Rottweilers' terror attack

BYLINE: Matt Davies

LENGTH: 364 words


HYSTERICAL children watched in horror as a pair of Rottweilers savaged another
dog in one of two shocking attacks on a Stafford housing estate. The first of
the weekend incidents at The Meadows was witnessed by two youngsters who were
said to be distraught at what they saw. Mick Goodrich, 48, of Malvern Close, The
Meadows, said his dog had been left traumatised by Saturday's attack at 9am.

"I was walking my two dogs when I got to a junction and saw two Rottweilers
running towards us. The smaller one bit my German shepherd dog Esther, but I
managed to kick it off.  "She came back again and bit Esther in the side and
held on for about 15 seconds. I managed to dig my heel into the Rottweiler's
ribs and she let go. "All the rest of the time the other dog was stalking around
us, and trying to get at my Jack Russell. Mr Goodrich said a man sauntered over
and took the dogs, but didn't say a word. "I was worried I would be bitten and
there are real fears about the safety of children on the estate. Two children of
about 10 and five saw the whole thing and they were hysterical. "The next day
they washed some cars to raise money to buy presents for Esther which was really
kind of them. Esther is traumatised and she has been having some kind of panic
attacks." On Sunday Thomas Berns, 77, of Benenden Close, was walking his
family's 14-year-old collie cross Jessie. He said: "I was walking towards the
fields when these two Rottweilers came out of nowhere and just mauled my dog.
She's had to have 60 stitches and spend two days at the vets. "She is really
traumatised by the whole thing. The owners were nowhere to be seen. It was
disgusting. My wife and I are devastated." A spokeswoman for Stafford police
confirmed officers were called to a house in Malvern Close following reports of
the attacks. She said: "In the interest of public safety the dogs were seized by
officers and are currently being held in a pound. A 46-year-old woman from the
Queensville area was arrested on suspicion of being the owner of a dog out of
control in a public place. She is currently on police bail pending further
enquiries." As the Newsletter went to print neither dog had been put down.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 18, 2007

City's Subway system reviews security in case of terror attack

BYLINE: GERRY BRAIDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: TUNNEL VISION: Security on Glasgow's Subway will be reviewed.


THE terror attack on Glasgow Airport has prompted another security review on the
city's Subway system.

It follows a safety review of the network earlier this year by a team of
anti-terror specialists involved with the US authorities in the immediate
aftermath of the September 11 attacks and the recruitment this year of two
full-time British Transport Police officers.

As part of the security review earlier in the year 29 recommendations were made
to the Subway's operators, Strathclyde Partnership for Transport, while the BTP
team made 15 recommendations on "future proofing" the system.

Emergency agencies, along with SPT, have also undertaken mock terror and
evacuation exercises on the Glasgow Subway system.

However, the erratic and low-tech nature of the airport attack has prompted
another review, with the agency's chief executive Ron Culley receiving advice
and information from the airport authorities and the police on coping with the
unpredictability of terrorism.

Mr Culley said he was not prepared to divulge publicly the measures implemented
but said plain-clothes officers were frequently deployed on the system, along
with infra-red cameras, while staff backgrounds would also be checked more
rigorously.

He said: "Unfortunately, in the current climate, there are no guarantees but the
public should know that we're doing all we can to ensure their safety.

"I visited Glasgow Airport recently to look at their new security measures and
to consider how we might achieve the balance between protecting passengers and
our staff whilst enabling people to use the Subway without due hindrance."

Mr Culley added: "The exercises between ourselves, Strathclyde Police, BTP and
Fire and Rescue, which are unseen by the public, have reassured us that our
measures are robust."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 20, 2007 Monday

Egyptian court passes verdicts in 2005 terror attacks case

LENGTH: 272 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 20 August: The Cairo Emergency Supreme State Security Court on Monday [20
August] passed verdicts against 14 persons tried in connection with three
downtown Cairo terrorist attacks two years ago.

The verdicts bring an end to the story of the deadly Al-Azhar, Abd-al-Mun'im
Riyad Square and Al-Sayida A'isha attacks.

Two women were among those being tried.

Four of the defendants received life sentences, two received a
10-year-imprisonment sentence, while one was sentenced to three years and two to
one.

Four were acquitted.

The court put off until 20 November, the issuance of its sentence against the
14th defendant who was absent from today's session because of his illness, but
ordered that he be freed.

The first attack dates back to 7 April 2005 when Hasan Bashandi blew himself up
in old Fatimid Al-Azhar district, killing three tourists and himself and
injuring 19 others - seven tourists and 12 Egyptians.

The other two, on 30 April of the same year, were twin attacks on tourists in
Cairo - one carried out by a suicide bomber at Abd-al-Mun'im Riyad Square, near
the Egyptian Museum; the other by two veiled women in the Al-Sayida A'isha
neighbourhood off the Salah Salim highway.

The Square attack was carried out by Ihab Yusri who was killed in the incident.
It led to the injury of seven people - four tourists and three Egyptians.

In Al-Sayida A'isha attack, one of the two women attackers, diappointed by their
failure to open fire at a tourist bus, shot and killed the other and then took
her own life.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1158 gmt 20 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Isle of Man

                                August 20, 2007

Woman relives terror after dangerous dogs attack

LENGTH: 642  words


A WOMAN has relived the terrifying moment she was forced to pull the family pet
from the jaws of a vicious dog.

She feared for her life after a leisurely walk with her small dog turned to
horror at the hands of two Staffordshire bull terriers.

The woman, too scared to reveal her identity for fear of reprisals, was left
with bruising and a scar. Her beloved dog's back leg muscles were damaged and
the animal also had teeth puncture wounds all over its tiny body.

The pet, which has been in the family for 10 years, was 'on her last legs', said
the woman, who took a day off work to recover.

She and the dog were just minutes into their walk last week when the two
Staffordshire bull terriers pounced.

'One locked its jaw into my little dog,' she said. 'If it wasn't for me being so
brave it would have killed her, no doubt.

'What is it going to take? For one to kill a baby? Why wait for that, why not do
something now while we can?'

She is worried the dogs may attack others.

The attack happened in the south of the Island and the injured dog was taken to
the emergency vet.

Police are investigating the attack.

Earlier this year, Douglas North MHK John Houghton was given leave to introduce
a private member's bill covering dangerous dogs.

He said he knew there were many dog owners, including owners of Staffordshire
bull terriers, who look after their dogs, but added: 'I'm after people who don't
look after their dogs.'

Mr Houghton said that, until the police investigation reached its conclusion,
with the law as it currently stood, there wasn't much recourse for people like
the woman whose dog was attacked.

'There is nothing she can do,' he said.

DO YOU THINK STRONGER MEASURES ARE NEEDED?

Send us your views.

>> Have your say - take part in this week's iomtoday poll

YOUR COMMENTS

I think ownership of pets (of all kinds] should be much more closely monitored
for the sake of the animals as well as the people who have to live near them. I
think when someone acquires a living creature they should be made to sign a
declaration that they will care properly for the animal, train it properly, will
not allow it to annoy or molest other people (eg noise nuisance] and that they
live in an environment suitable for the animal's needs and temperament. This
contract should be legally binding with suitable penalties for those who break
it. It's far too easy for people in small town houses to own large dogs that are
kept cooped up with family of various ages who sometimes look upon the dog as a
toy. These dogs are often kept purely as a status symbol or for protection but
they are not properly trained and are sometimes encouraged to be aggressive.
They should be muzzled in public places. My views may sound extreme and
encouraging to the 'nanny' state attitude but as most of us have to live in
close proximity to others I believe that owning anything which poses a danger or
nuisance to other people HAS to have consequences if not properly controlled. I
am not allowed to keep a firearm at home or take it out in public without
stringent rules (if at all] and I have far more control over that than I would
over a dangerous dog so why are ownership rules so different when both are
potential killers? People who complain about 'nanny' states are often the
selfish ones who want to do as they like regardless of the rights and safety of
others. I am not a dog hater, the opposite in fact, I have a small, well trained
one and I can very much sympathise with anyone whose dog is attacked by another.
It's not the dog's fault it is the attitude of irresponsible owners but it's the
dog and its victims that suffer. There are far too many serious incidents
involving large, aggressive dogs and I wonder just how many children and pets
will be injured or worse before strictly enforced rules are put in place to try
to monitor and control this menace.

HAZEL TEARE

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             August 20, 2007 Monday

My terror at hands of sword attacker

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 700 words


Jak Chadwick was walking home from work one night when he walked into an event
that would change his life forever.

The 18-year-old had never  been the victim of a crime  before and had big plans
for his life.

He was hoping to join the Royal Marines and was preparing to sign up the
following week.

After finishing his shift at McDonald's, in Bulwell, he walked in the path of
two men brandishing a samurai sword  and a large carving  knife.

Ryan Keetley, 18, and Tony Unwin, 19, were waving the weapons around and
threatening people close to Bulwell bus station. They then stabbed Mr Chadwick
in his head, body and legs.

The attack caused him to lose so much blood he almost died and had to spend  a
week in intensive care and needing several operations.

Today Mr Chadwick cannot move some of his fingers and has had to put his dream
of  joining the Royal Marines on hold until he fully recovers.

Speaking from his home in Bulwell, about the attack at 1am on October 22 last
year, in Greasley Street, he said: "I was walking back as normal with some
friends when I saw a group of people coming over and put my head down.

"They all walked past me apart from one who asked me for my things and put a
knife to my hip.

"I was just terrified really, I did not know what to do and was just trying to
get things to give him out of my pockets.

"Before I could get anything out he started to stab me."

Mr Chadwick recalled jumping down a flight of steps and attempting to run away,
when he spotted Keetley waving the samurai sword in front of a group of girls.

Keetley and Unwin gave chase and caught up with  Mr Chadwick, who they backed
against a wall.

"All I can remember is them punching me, but the punches left a lasting burning
sensation which must have been where they stabbed me," he said. "During the
attack on me the samurai sword was brought down on my arm which severed one of
the nerves, which had to be reattached.

"I just tried to curl up into a ball.

"At one point one person hit me over the head with what looked like a dumbbell."

Mr Chadwick received wounds to his cheek, head, ear, back and shoulder.

"I was bleeding quite a lot but I tried to sit down and keep myself calm, he
said.

"The police came on the scene quite quickly and if it wasn't for them I think I
might be dead now.

"They helped stop my blood loss and I will always be so grateful to them."

While he was in intensive care his family feared the worst, but Mr Chadwick
managed to overcome his ordeal and is well on the road to recovery.

He said: "I still feel nervous when I go out and do not like going out at night
unless I am in a group.

"But you have got to face your fears.  If you just stay in and never go out then
they have won and I am not willing to let that happen."

During their violent spree, Unwin and Keetley  stabbed one victim in the bus
station. Unwin robbed a 16-year-old at knife-point and then they both attacked
Mr Chadwick.

Unwin, of Staunton Drive, Sherwood, was found guilty of three charges of
unlawful wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, robbery, and two
counts of possessing an offensive weapon. Keetley, of Regent Street, Basford,
was found guilty of two counts of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily
harm.

He pleaded guilty to possessing an offensive weapon. Both men were warned to
expect lengthy  sentences for public protection.

Speaking about the court case, Mr Chadwick said: "I just think, 'What did I do
to deserve this?'

"They have ruined my plans for the future because I was going to sign up to the
Marines the following week.

"I think it is good that they are going to spend a long time inside and they
deserve everything they get. They have ruined their lives"

Mr Chadwick is still  working at the fast food restaurant and has  joined the
Coopers Arms football team.

No one was more delighted with Mr Chadwick's recovery than his mum Yvonne, 44.

She said: "When this happened it seemed like so many people were getting
attacked and stabbed.

"Jak is so positive and we feel so lucky that he has not died. I think this
every day and how all those mothers and fathers who have lost their children
must feel. I cannot imagine what they are going through."

alex.claydon@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday

MARTYR EMAILS SENT BY AIRPORT BOMBER;
Terrorists confession to family before attack

BYLINE: Neil Sears

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words


THE would-be suicide bomber who drove a burning vehicle into Glasgow Airport
boasted of his martyrdom before the attack. burns during the attack on June 30
and died in hospital more than a month later.

Yesterday, security sources revealed damning evidence of the Indian-born
engineers dedication to terrorism.

Relatives have told police investigating the attack that Ahmed sent them an
email claiming he was acting in the name of Allah.

The bomber also discussed martyrdom in his email, while analysis of his computer
is said to show he visited bomb-making websites. His mobile phone was found in
the burned-out Jeep.

The evidence is vital for anti-terror experts who believe Ahmed, who lived in
Glasgow, could have provided crucial information about Al Qaeda networks.

Ahmeds relatives have also identified him in CCTV footage fleeing one of the
failed nightclub car bombs in London the day before the Glasgow Airport attack.

A security source has disclosed that Ahmed sent a text to a relative only two
hours before the airport incident.

The text contained a password to access a linked email in which Ahmed is said to
admit to both the London car bomb attempt and the Glasgow plot.

Although the email apparently accepts that his relative will be shocked by his
involvement in terror, he says that he desires martyrdom and appears to describe
the Glasgow attack as a suicide bombing.

However, the email was not read by its recipient until after the Jeep had been
engulfed by flames at the airport.

It is believed the Glasgow attack was launched in a hurry after the London
bombings failed, because the terrorists feared they would be arrested
imminently.

Doctors at Glasgow Royal Infirmary said Ahmed never emerged from a coma
throughout his long, unwilling battle for life.

A hospital source said: This was one of the worst cases of burns I have ever
seen. It was traumatic for everyone involved in his care. I was surprised he
survived so long. Investigators feared Ahmeds death had robbed them of vital
information about Al Qaeda-linked terror operations here and across the world.

Anti-terror police, who were guarding his hospital room round the clock, had
hoped to question him about the planned attacks, believing he could have held a
wealth of intelligence about terror contacts in Britain, India and Australia and
about the background to the alleged bomb plot.

Shocking TV images of a badly burned Ahmed struggling with police and then lying
on the ground as he was handcuffed were seen around the world.

Passengers recorded on mobile phones how off-duty policeman Stewart Ferguson
used a fire extinguisher to try to save him.

Before setting fire to himself at the airport on June 30, Ahmed had warned his
family in Bangalore that he was going to be working on a secret global warming
project thought to be a reference to the airport attack.

Significantly, shortly after the two car bombs packed with petrol, nails and gas
cylinders failed to explode in Londons Haymarket, he had phoned his parents in
India to tell them an earlier presentation had flopped. He asked them to pray
for me this time.

In May, during his final trip to Bangalore, he told relatives: I am involved in
a large-scale confidential project. It is about global warming. I cannot reveal
the details. The project has to be started in the United Kingdom.

In his call hours before the airport attack, he had told his mother, Dr Zakia
Ahmed, and sister Sadia: I told you earlier that some time in the future I will
be inaccessible for a week. The time has come now. Police are still piecing
together the background of the engineer, who had a PhD in design and technology.

He studied at Queens University in Belfast between 2001 and 2004 and gained his
PhD at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge.

Detectives are investigating if he was part of a cell planning attacks in
Australia and the U.S. and where and how he was converted to terrorism.

He and his brother Sabeel, 26, who is accused of not disclosing information that
could have helped police arrest a suspected terrorist, had applied to work in
Australia but were rejected.

A second man in the airport Jeep Iraqi doctor Bilal Talal Samad Abdullah has
been charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

Also charged over the attacks are Jordanian doctor Mohammed Jamil Asha.

n. sears@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror: The Jeep burst into flames at the airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           August 23, 2007, Thursday

TEAMS IN ATTACK TERROR;
VIOLENT SCOTLAND..

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 97 words


TWO football teams fled in terror after being attacked by gangs armed with
knives, chains and bricks.

The neds lobbed missiles at players, threatened to shoot them with airguns and
swung dog chains and bats.

One teenage girl even attacked a player with a knife during the incident in
Wishaw, Lanarkshire.

John Longworth, 52, secretary of Carfin Harp football team, said: "It was a
nightmare. Everyone felt really threatened and it got out of control."

The trouble flared as Carfin Harp took on Windmill Amateurs at Heathery Park in
Wishaw.

Both teams say they will never return to the venue.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 24, 2007 Friday

Ill blow up Glasgow;
Former classmate tells terror trial accused spoke of an attack on city

BYLINE: Wilma Riley, Grant McCabe

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 715 words


A STUDENT facing terror charges threatened to blow up Glasgow, a court heard
yesterday.

Mohammed Atif Siddique was given two nicknames by a fellow student suicide
bomber and Al Qaeda.

Former classmate Razia Hussain, who is now an immigration officer at Glasgow
Airport, claimed Siddique only communicated with anyone if it was something to
do with Islam.

She told Scotlands senior Advocate Depute Brian McConnachie, QC, prosecuting at
the High Court in Glasgow, that Siddique, 21, regularly looked at suicide bomb
Internet sites.

Miss Hussain, 22, said: He said he was going to blow Glasgow up. As a joke, I
said, Please inform me so I can run.

She claimed Siddique, of Alva, Clackmannanshire, also told her: As Muslims we
should commit Jihad.

And she added that he repeatedly claimed he wanted to be a suicide bomber, said
he had met Osama bin Laden and had either been on or was going to a training
course somewhere near Edinburgh or Stirling.

Miss Hussain said Siddique showed her a website portraying a smiling man who had
committed Jihad, pointing to the sky.

She said Siddique told her the man was smiling because he had committed Jihad
and God was going to be happy with him.

She added: He said he wanted to be a suicide bomber.

Miss Hussain, a classmate of Siddiques at Glasgow Metropolitan College, told the
trial Siddique had told her his idol was bin Laden.

She also said Siddique showed her a horrible video of a mans beheading.

The court heard that, in a statement to police, she alleged that during a
college trip to Ministry of Defence offices in Anderston, Glasgow, Siddique said
he had been watching the building.

She told the jury: He said he had been doing this so he could report back to his
leaders.

Donald Findlay, QC, defending, said this was not true as Siddique had not been
given clearance to go on the trip by the MoD because his passport had not been
submitted in time.

Mr Findlay said: Your evidence is a combination of fact, fantasy, deliberate
lies, isnt it? Miss Hussain replied: No. Mr Findlay suggested Siddique looked at
the websites and clips for educational purposes and would never have told her
anything about himself because she was a silly girl due to not being as devout
as him.

The court also heard earlier that Siddique was caught looking at video clips of
a suicide bomber and someone like Osama bin Laden.

College communications lecturer Brian Glancey said he found Siddique watching
them and told him to turn them off.

Mr Glancey said: I think I saw a video of Osama bin Laden or someone like him.

There was no sound the person was speaking but to who I dont know. I told
Siddique to stop it and he switched it off.

Mr Glancey said that around three weeks later he found Siddique watching a clip
in class of a Palestinian suicide bomber.

He added: This person had a gun, a green bandana and T-shirt and there was
Arabic text on the screen. He appeared to be speaking to camera.

I told Mohammed it was against college policy to look at terrorist, violent or
pornographic sites and, again, he simply switched it off.

Cross-examined by Mr Findlay, Mr Glancey admitted he did not know what websites
Siddique had been accessing at the time.

Mr Findlay said: You are not in a position to say that these sites were related
to militant websites they may have been news sites.

Mr Glancey replied: They may well have been, yes.

But Mr Glancey said that when he had first seen the clip of the suicide bomber
he did not think it had come from a news site.

The first charge against Siddique alleges that between March 1, 2003, and April
13, 2006, he possessed articles which gave rise to a reasonable suspicion they
were connected with terrorism. The offence is alleged to have taken place in his
home, Ibrox public library, Glasgow Metropolitan College and Glasgow Airport.

The second charge alleges he c o l l e c t e d i t e m s a n d r e c o r d e d
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an
act of terrorism.

Siddique is also accused of committing a breach of the peace by showing students
images of suicide bombers and behead-ings and claiming to be a member of Al
Qaeda. The fourth charge says he showed how to make firearms on his websites.

The fifth charge alleges Siddique distributed terrorist publications on the web.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Evidence: Razia Hussain told the High Court that Siddique said he was
planning a terror attack on Glasgow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                August 25, 2007

Late-night train terror attack injures guard

LENGTH: 426 words


A RAILWAY guard from Blackpool had to have glass removed from his eye following
a terrifying attack on his train.

The 43-year-old, who has not been named, was in charge of the 10.56pm Preston to
Colne service on Thursday night when a brick or stone was lobbed through the
rear window.

The missile shattered glass in the rear cab - where the man sat - and the
Northern Rail worker was showered with shards.

The incident comes just days after a driver narrowly escaped injury after his
train was attacked by vandals when leaving Blackpool North.

In that incident, between Layton and Poulton, the windscreen of the driver's cab
was shattered, forcing the train to be withdrawn from service.

The latest attack came at Accrington station, at around 11.30pm on Thursday. As
the train moved away from the platform it was hit by an object.

The two-carriage train was travelling at around 10mph but no passengers were on
board.

The guard, who has not been named, was taken to hospital in Blackburn where
glass was removed from his eye and face.

He was later discharged and is not thought to have any serious or long-term
injuries.

Police are now appealing for witnesses to the incident.

Sgt Paul Longstaff of British Transport Police, said. "The people responsible
need to realise throwing stones or bricks at trains is not just a game.

"It is only a matter of time before someone is seriously injured or killed as a
result.

"I am appealing to the local community to come forward with information as to
who is responsible. I am also appealing to parents to reinforce this message and
ask themselves if they know where their children are playing this summer."

CCTV from the platforms at Accrington is also being studied, and officers
believe two members of the public who were waiting on the Preston side of the
station, may hold the key to identifying the attackers.

There has been a sharp increase in the number of vandalism incidents on the
railways.

In June, on a Liverpool to Blackpool train, the driver was seriously hurt by a
rock thrown through his open window.

The man managed to drive the train to Blackpool North before collapsing on the
platform and was rushed to Victoria Hospital with serious facial injuries.

Blackpool is one of the top 10 locations in the North West outside of Manchester
for trespass and vandalism, and last month, British Transport Police joined
Network Rail crews to carry out a helicopter vandal patrol.

Anyone with information on the latest incident should contact British Transport
Police on 0800 405040, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Grocer

                                August 25, 2007

BSi fast-tracks food terror attack advice

BYLINE: Richard Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 223 words


Retailers and processors are to be given new guidance on how to prevent or deal
with terrorist attacks. Amid growing fears of an attack on or via the food and
drink industry, BSi British Standards is working with government security
experts at the Centre for the Protection of the National Infrastructure on a new
standard for businesses throughout the supply chain. The standard will offer
advice on a number of scenarios including what to do in the event food or drink
is used as a vehicle for a biological or chemical attack and how to respond to
possible disruption of the supply chain. Businesses and trade associations are
being asked to help draw up the standard and organise site visits so BSi and
CPNI staff can identify possible danger points first-hand.  Sainsbury's, M&S,
ABF and Baxters are among the first to have pledged involvement. A draft
document will be published in Novem­ber, with a view to introducing the standard
in March. The standard will be in the form of a Publicly Available
Spec­ification, a fast-track procedure that takes less than a year to complete,
compared with two to three years for a full British Standard. Last month the
European Commission published a green paper examining Europe's
"bio-preparedness" in the face of a terror attack on its food supply chain. It
is currently consulting on the paper.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2007 William Reed Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday

India will not be cowed down by terrorist attacks - home minister

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Hyderabad, 26 Aug: The central [federal] government said on Sunday [26 August]
that it would not be cowed down by terrorist strikes like the twin blasts that
killed 42 people here but refused to specify whether terror groups based in
Pakistan and Bangladesh were behind the attacks.

"We are sorry but we are not cowed down. We will definitely see to it that it is
reduced and eliminated ultimately," said Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil.

Patil, here to take stock of the security situation in the aftermath of the two
blasts Saturday night, refused to comment on whether groups based in Pakistan
and Bangladesh could have been responsible for the attacks.

He told reporters "these things cannot be openly discussed" and it was for
investigating agencies to ascertain all facts about the explosions.

Earlier in the day, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had
blamed "international terrorist organisations" based in Pakistan and Bangladesh
for the blasts.

Patil also spoke of the need for timely action on intelligence inputs to avert
such attacks.

"We had bits of information, but we didn't know when and where it would happen,"
he said, replying to questions on whether some intelligence inputs had been
received about the blasts.

Patil said the investigations into the blasts would establish whether there was
a failure on the part of intelligence agencies and necessary corrective measures
would be taken thereafter.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1352gmt 26 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      August 27, 2007 Monday 10:56 AM GMT

Prosectuor orders terror probe over forest arson attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 96 words


A top prosecutor ordered an investigation today into whether this summer's arson
attacks in Greek forests could be considered terrorism, the Public Order
Ministry said.

Dimitris Papangelopoulos, who is responsible for prosecuting terrorism and
organised crime, ordered the investigation to determine "whether the crimes of
arsonists and of arson attacks on forests carried out in the country during the
summer of 2007" could come under Greece's anti-terrorism law, the ministry said
in a statement.

The probe will also seek to establish the identities of the alleged
perpetrators.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             August 27, 2007 Monday

Manhunt after terror attacks kill 42 in India

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 347 words


More than 50 others were injured in the blasts late on Saturday, which ripped
through a packed street restaurant in the mixed Hindu-Muslim city and an outdoor
amusement park auditorium where hundreds were watching a sound and light show.

Federal authorities deployed paramilitary forces to the city, the capital of
Andhra Pradesh state, to ensure ethnic tensions did not flare up following the
near-simultaneous attacks, for which nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

"The death toll now is 42. More than 50 people are being treated in various
hospitals," the state's home minister K Jana Reddy told reporters.

"The victims are from all sections of society - they included Hindus and
Muslims," said chief minister YS Rajshekhar Reddy.

"One terrorist group or the other, which is bent on destroying the unity of the
country, is certainly involved," said Sriprakash Jaiswal, India's minister of
state for home.

Mr Reddy said "available information" pointed to the involvement of terrorist
organisations based in Pakistan and Bangladesh.

The chief minister hinted that suspects behind the blasts were linked to a
deadly bombing three months ago at the city's 17th-century Mecca Mosque. "Maybe
same organisations or sister organisations" are involved, he told CNN-IBN
television. "There is some definite link."

He condemned the blasts as the "cruellest acts against humanity" and appealed
for calm in the city, where about 40% of the 6.5 million people are Muslim.

"I saw limbs flying around me and blood splattering," said 29-year-oldRomanna,
who goes by one name, as she waited for help for a chest wound outside the
amusement park.

India has suffered a series of recent blasts that authorities have blamed on
Islamic militants seeking to upset a peace process between India and Pakistan
and stir Hindu-Muslim violence. In the deadliest, seven blasts on the rail
network in the country's financial hub Mumbai killed 186 people in July 2006.

Indian authorities say they believe Pakistan-based guerrilla groups fighting its
rule in Indian Kashmir are using Indian Muslim militants to stage attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                August 27, 2007

US DEPARTMENT OF STATE: Terrorist Attacks in Hyderabad, India

LENGTH: 126 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 27, 2007-US DEPARTMENT OF STATE: Terrorist Attacks in
Hyderabad, India ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

We condemn the attacks that occurred in Hyderabad yesterday, August 25. Our
hearts and prayers are with the people of India. There is no justification for
harming and killing innocent people. India has shown great resolve and courage
in the face of extremist threats. We continue to stand by the Indian people in
the fight against terror.

2006/717 Released on August 26, 2007

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 29, 2007, Wednesday
                               City North Edition

Boy, 10, in dog attack terror;
PROBE: Pet's owner quizzed by police after street ordeal

BYLINE: Tony Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 320 words


POLICE are questioning the owner of a dog which attacked a ten-year-old
Birmingham boy, biting him on the leg.

Nathan Grant, from Queslett Road, Great Barr, was set upon by the Staffordshire
bull terrier-cross as he sat outside his grandmother's house in Park Road,
Norton Canes, Cannock, Staffs, on Saturday.

His mother, Kerry, said the dog ran loose as it was being put into a vehicle
outside a neighbouring house.

She said: "It was a totally unprovoked attack. Nathan said he saw the dog coming
for his face, so he turned his back and it bit him on the leg."

Nathan, who attends Pheasey Park Farm Primary School in Great Barr, was taken to
Cannock Hospital where he received treatment for injuries to the leg.

PC Warren Saunders, of Staffordshire Police, said: "The owner of the dog is
helping officers with inquiries."

Reports of the attack emerged as another dog-bite victim recovered in hospital
following an attack in Birmingham.

Chenita Jade Francis-Hare, aged 19, was repeatedly bitten on the arms and legs
by the bull terrier-type dog while visiting a friend in Linwood Road,
Handsworth.

The college student has since undergone two operations at City Hospital to save
her left thumb, which was almost bitten off in the attack last Thursday. She was
also bitten on her right leg.

Chenita was visiting a friend, Letitia Fagan, when the dog, who belongs to a
friend, attacked her. Her mother Deborah said: "All I want is for the dog to be
put down before it attacks someone else."

Deborah, who recently moved from Murdoch Road, Handsworth, to Pensnett, Dudley,
said it was hoped that Chenita would be released from hospital today.

West Midlands Police are unable to investigate under the Dangerous Dogs Act
because it occurred at a private house.

Anyone who witnessed the Norton Canes incident should ring PC Saunders on 08453
302010 or 08453 303132 followed by 00936. Or they can call Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTEN... Chenita Francis-Hare

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

Serbia: Albanian National Army member faces "terror" charges for bomb attack

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report in English by Belgrade-based Radio B92 text website on 30 August

Vranje, 30 August: Vranje District Court has indicted Feton Osmani for throwing
a bomb at the home of Nagip Arifi.

Osmani is accused of attacking the homes of Bujanovac Municipal President Nagip
Arifi and his brother Galip, according to a statement from the prosecutor's
office.

Osmani (22) is from the village of Konculj near Bujanovac and is charged with a
series of crimes, including terrorism, keeping firearms and explosives without a
license and endangerment.

Moreover, the accused "with his act, instilled fear and insecurity into the
residents of Veliki Trnovac and Bujanovac, and endangered the lives of the
residents and the security of their properties," the statement adds.

The prosecutor's office also stated that Osmani was a member of the "terrorist
organization of the Albanian National Army (ANA) which is directly led by Ljirim
Jakupi," who recently escaped from a Kosovo prison.

"The ANA was created with the intention of endangering the security situation in
Serbia and performing terrorist acts," the statement goes on to say.

Osmani has been in custody since 8 June.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 1036 gmt 30 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

No "heightened" risk of terror attacks during Pope's Austrian visit - police

LENGTH: 188 words


Text of report by Austrian newspaper Die Presse on 30 August

Vienna - Five million euros: that is the amount the Catholic Church will spend
on its leader's three-day visit. On Wednesday [ 29 August] Cardinal Christoph
Schoenborn for the first time confirmed this sum. These 5 million are
exclusively the church's budget for the pastoral visit. It remains unclear how
much exactly the official visit - that is, the reception at the airport, the
meeting in Hofburg Palace, and the security measures - will cost.

An Interior Ministry spokesman stated that 2,200 policemen will be on duty:
1,300 to 1,400 to keep order, 350 to regulate traffic. In addition, personal
protection officers and antiterror units will be on duty.

At present, police do not fear that there is a heightened danger of terrorist
attacks; there is "no specific danger," either, the spokesman said. However,
under the motto "Heathen Fun Instead of Days of Hell" appeals for "anticlerical
action days" are circulating in the Internet. Pointing to the security police
law, Vienna police have already imposed no-go zones.

Source: Die Presse, Vienna, in German 30 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

Azeri prosecutor denies building collapse caused by terrorist attack

LENGTH: 75 words


Azerbaijani Prosecutor-General Zakir Qaralov has denied that the collapse of a
16-storey building in the Baku city centre on 28 August was caused by a
terrorist attack, the Azerbaijani website Day.az has reported.

The examination of construction materials from the building showed no signs of
an explosion on them, Day.az quoted Qaralov as saying in an interview with
journalists on 30 August.

Source: Day.az website, Baku, in Russian 1700 gmt 30 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Stamford Mercury

                                August 31, 2007

Arson attack terror

LENGTH: 161  words


AN elderly couple have been left terrified after several burning objects were
pushed through their letterbox on Tuesday night.

At 11.30pm the couple, who live in Wood Road, King's Cliffe, saw an ungloved
hand pushing objects, which police believe were firelighters, through their
door.

And though the items were quickly extinguished, a carpet was badly damaged in
the attack.

Three cars were also damaged at the same time when they were covered with paint.

Police believe the incidents were linked and have stepped up patrols in the area
to reassure residents. They are distributing leaflets appealing for information.

A 15-year-old boy who was arrested on suspicion of arson has been released on
police bail.

The incidents are the latest in a long line of mindless attacks to plague the
village, which has seen garages and the church wall daubed with graffiti in
recent weeks.

Anyone with any information should call police on 08453 700700 or Crimestoppers
on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Thai security expert warns of terror attacks in major cities

LENGTH: 454 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 1 September

A security expert has warned people living in the big cities to brace themselves
for all possible forms of terrorist attacks.

Surachart Bamrungsuk, a security expert at Chulalongkorn University's political
science faculty, said the focus of attacks has now shifted from rural areas to
cities which are easier to strike but are difficult to guard.

Besides, an attack on a city had a strong shock impact on the psyche of people
as it received worldwide media attention, he said.

"Most attacks in Iraq occur in cities. A similar pattern is also common in other
countries. This includes terrorist strike against the World Trade Centre in the
US, the bombings at London railway stations and the gas attack on the Tokyo
subway.

"Much of the separatist violence in the three southernmost provinces also occurs
in downtown areas," he noted.

Metropolis cities such as Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Nakhon Ratchasima, Phuket and Hat
Yai as well as their satellite towns were vulnerable to attack.

Mr Surachart spoke during a seminar on measures to prevent threats from
terrorism. The seminar was held by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration's
Office of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation yesterday.

He suggested that the government sector educate and re-educate city residents
about terrorist attacks and prevention measures.

He said the Metropolitan Police Bureau must be the main force in tackling
terrorist attacks in the city. BMA thetsakij inspectors, disaster prevention
officials and civil disaster prevention volunteers must support the police
operations.

Mr Surachart suggested the government sector instruct all cities to be prepared
for a possible terrorist assault. Each city must have anti-terrorist measures in
place to cope with emergency situations.

Closed-circuit television systems should be installed. He said most big cities
in Europe had installed these security devices.

The academic urged authorities to do away with their old thinking that giving
information to the public about terrorist attacks would cause chaos in society.

Alerting people to impending or potential threats from terrorists would be the
right measure to take, he said.

In the event of an attack, people should stay away from glass doors or windows,
avoid using elevators and switch off their mobile phones, he said.

Niyom Kannasut, director of the Office of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation,
said the office provided training on how to handle bombs to its staff and
volunteers after Bangkok Governor Apirak Kosayodhin issued a disaster prevention
policy.

So far, about 2,000 officials and volunteers have undergone the training.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 1 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 1, 2007, Saturday

SURVIVING TERROR ATTACKS;
WHAT'S ON THIS WEEK DOCUMENTARY OF THE WEEK EXTRAORDINARY PEOPLE: 7/7 - THE MAN
WHO SHOULD BE DEAD MON, FIVE, 9PM THE INCREDIBLE STORY ABOUT A BOMB BLAST
VICTIM'S RECOVERY FROM APPALING INJURIES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 281 words


A certain class of programme seems to take pride in having a sexy title.

Scroll through the TV listings on the documentary channels and, chances are,
you'll see a variety of offerings boasting names like "riddle of the ice
mummies" and "inside the firestarter's tomb".

Often, they are about as enthralling as watching toast and the name has little
to do with the content.

But in this excellent show the title is an accurate depiction of the story
matter.

And the programme is a fascinating account of a man who has truly been to hell
and back at the hands of terrorists.

When Essex-based Danny Biddle travelled to work on the London Underground on
July 7, 2005, he was unaware he was sitting just a few feet away from Mohammad
Sidique Khan - the now infamous suicide bomber. Just seconds after the train
left Edgware Road, it stopped in the tunnel as a huge explosion ripped through
the carriages. Of all the flashbacks from which Danny still suffers, the most
disturbing takes him back to the place where he landed after being thrown from
the train - between the train and tunnel wall.

Danny's left leg was severed above the knee, his right leg was severely
lacerated and he was covered in cuts and burns.

He survived long enough to be rescued from the tunnel and taken to St Mary's
Hospital. His life hung by a thread.

The medics worked fast but his condition worsened and he suffered a cardiac
arrest.

He was rushed into surgery where his spleen was removed while his heart was
massaged.

Both legs were amputated and he had to be treated for shrapnel injuries he
suffered - incredibly, pounds 8 in loose change was removed from his body.

The show charts his recovery and inspirational attitude.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSPIRATION... Danny Biddle lost both legs in the terror attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

Pakistani city under threat of "terrorist" attack - official

LENGTH: 214 words


Text of report headlined "Rawalpindi under threat of terrorist attack" published
by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 2 September

Rawalpindi, 1 September: Rawal Town Nazim [local chief] Sheikh Rashid Shafique
on Saturday [1 September] said there were threats of subversive activities by
miscreants targeting public offices in the city.

Speaking on the occasion of installation of security devices at the Rawal Town
administration's offices, the Nazim said security agencies had reported that
various public offices could be hit by the terrorists.

According to Mr Shafique, introduction of a new security system and the
installation of a security gate and close circuit television cameras at the
Rawal Town offices were meant to secure it from any terror attacks.

"It is the basic responsibility of the administration to protect the life and
property of the people," he said, adding that the offices of elected
representatives were visited by a large number of people and they could not be
left insecure.

The Nazim said there were some elements who wanted to create a law and order
situation in the city, but the administration was vigilant to take on these
people and every preventive action would be taken to foil such nefarious
designs.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 02 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

Bombproof our windows say Blairs neighbours;
Connaught Square residents voice fears of terrorist attack as the former PM
shows he still has the stomach for luxury on the Med

BYLINE: AMANDA PERTHEN

SECTION: FB; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 619 words


TONY BLAIRS new neighbours have demanded bombproof glass for their houses to
protect them from a terrorist attack.

The request comes just days after a series of security scares at his Georgian
townhouse in Connaught Square, Central London.

One incident involved a suspect car which was investigated by a remote-control
robot before being cleared.

After discussions with police, residents have had their request refused and have
been told they must pay for the alterations themselves.

But it appears the former Prime Minister is considering having bombproof glass
and has put in a planning application to Westminster Council to install new
windows and doors.

The matter was brought up at a meeting of Connaught Square Residents
Association. Neighbours are also worried that bomb damage would not be covered
by their home insurance.

They are already furious about major building work taking place, including the
construction of a roof terrace clearly shown in pictures taken by The Mail on
Sunday.

A string of complaints to the council argued that the hubbub of the Blairs
barbecuing on their open-air deck would be noisy and smelly.

One resident, who did not wish to be named, said: We were told that if we want
shatterproof glass, we have to pay for it ourselves as the Blairs dont even have
it. We were told they only have curtains which have been lined so that they can
take the force of the glass should an explosion occur.

A number of us are very worried about the situation. Some people have checked
with their insurers and under their current policies they would not be covered
for a terrorist attack.

We have had a string of incidents in the square. Only a few weeks ago the area
was flooded with about 40 police, three fire engines were in attendance and we
were told to stay in our homes. It all calmed down eventually, but we feel that
it is only a matter of time before something happens and we want to be prepared
if it does.

One of the police told a resident that if the Blairs house took the force of a
blast, then all the windows in the square would be blown out.

We are so concerned there is even talk of raising money around the square to
have an independent security assessment carried out by an expert.

Mr Blair was warned by MI5 and police when he bought the townhouse three years
ago that it posed a security risk because the square was so exposed.

But draft residents association minutes reveal that police are desperately
trying to reassure neighbours that there is no risk.

The minutes state: Police assured residents that after a thorough assessment at
the highest levels of any likely terrorist threat, the police protection now in
place for the Blairs and other residents is considered by the Home Office to be
adequate and proportionate.

Residents do not need shatterproof glass for their windows.

Neighbours have been told by police to visit MI5 s website to learn tips on
protecting themselves from terrorism.

Westminster Council declined to talk about the planning application for windows
at Mr Blairs home. A spokesman said: Having considered representations by the
Home Office, the council remains of the view that these are extremely sensitive
documents, the release of which could pose a security threat. The public
interest weights in favour of not disclosing these documents.

A spokesman for Mr Blair said: We never comment on security matters.

The townhouse has already been knocked through to an adjoining £1million mews
house behind to increase security and provide a more secure entrance at the
back.

The two properties are currently undergoing a massive £100,000 facelift.

The redesigned property is expected to be filled with panic alarms, motion
detectors, CCTV cameras and have 24-hour security.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Neighbours fearing a bomb blast have also criticised the Blairs
new roof terrace, circled

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

Guess who's still loving the high life;
Connaught Square residents voice fears of terrorist attack as the former PM
shows he still has the stomach for luxury on the Med

SECTION: FB; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 182 words


THE Blairs show they have lost none of their taste for the high life since
leaving No10 - rubbing shoulders with U2 frontman Bono on a billionaire's yacht.

The former PM, wife Cherie and daughter Kathryn last week soaked up the sun with
the Irish singer and the owner of the vessel, France's richest man Bernard
Arnault.

Mr Arnault, a regular guest at Chequers during the Blair Premiership, is the
majority shareholder in luxury goods chain Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy.

At one point Mr Blair, wearing lurid swimming shorts, went for a dip off the
London-registered Amadeus while it was anchored near Portofino, Italy. .

And as he later towelled himself off, he was careful to hold in his stomach.

The party also landed ashore for Mass at Divo Martino church before enjoying a
light lunch in a seafront restaurant. The Med cruise lasted several days.

Mr Arnault, 58, has also been generous to the Blair children during his
friendship with the family. He gave Kathryn, 19, accommodation while she studied
French for three months at the Sorbonne and offered Euan, 23, work at one of his
radio stations..

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL ABOARD: The Blairs with billionaire Mr Arnault and U2 rocker Bono
on luxury yacht

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

They've ad an attack of terror

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 32  words


WHEN the Tories take out billboard ad space they hope to send a message saying
"We're ready for an election". Translated, this means "We're terrified". I
suspect Gordo reads them loud and clear.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 103 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 4 September: Turkish Foreign Ministry strongly condemned terrorist
attacks that took place in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, on Tuesday [4 September].

Releasing a statement, the ministry said, "Turkey is deeply saddened by
terrorist attacks killing 24 people and wounding 66 people that took place in
Rawalpindi, Pakistan, on 4 September 2007."

The statement noted that Turkish authorities always underlined the importance of
international cooperation in fight against terrorism during their talks.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1630 gmt 4 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday

New terror as gangs bring kneecapping attacks to Limerick

BYLINE: SHANE PHELAN

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words


A MAN who was shot in the leg in an apparent kneecapping attempt has refused to
make a complaint about the incident to gardaÃOE.

The 26-year-old was shot at close range in the early hours of yesterday morning
at a soccer pitch in Limerick city.

It is believed he was lured there by his attackers for some sort of punishment
or warning.

Until now kneecappings have largely been associated with paramilitary activity
in the North.

During the Troubles, thousands of people, mostly young men, suffered horrendous
knee injuries inflicted by baseball bats, pickaxes, hammers, and guns. It was
the punishment commonly meted out to petty criminals such as joyriders and drug
dealers by paramilitaries exacting summary justice.

Garda sources said last night they were looking at the possibility that the
shooting was somehow linked to continuing criminal feuding in the city which has
claimed eight lives over the past seven years.

One of the major criminal gangs involved in that feud was being mentioned
yesterday as possibly being involved in the incident.

The victim had only recently been released after a short prison term.

'This man is known to gardaÃOE as a small-time crook who recently got out of
jail,' said a source.

'At the moment he is keeping his mouth shut and not making any complaint.' The
motive for the shooting remained unknown last night.

The man was shot in the knee at Janesboro soccer pitch at about 4am and was left
lying writhing in pain on the ground.

He managed to phone his father, who arrived in a car minutes later and brought
him to Limerick Regional Hospital, where he was being treated yesterday. His
injuries were described as non-life threatening.

Drive-by shootings have been a feature of the feuding for several years, and
houses are often indiscriminately targeted to 'send a message' to the other
side. There have also been fist fights in the streets.

However, kneecappings have not been a feature of the violent encounters.

The city's feuds have become increasingly convoluted in recent times, with some
elements known to have had internal rows.

It first erupted in 2000 with the murder of criminal Eddie Ryan, who was gunned
down in the Moose Bar by his former associates in the Keane drugs gang.

The murder was revenge for Ryan's botched attempt to assassinate gang boss
Christy Keane, who is now serving a ten-year sentence for drug possession.

The feud was later complicated by the emergence of a third gang, the
McCarthy-Dundons, as the battle for control of the city's drugs trade became
increasingly bloody.

The feuding factions have begun using powerful automatic and semiautomatic
firearms. Pipe bombs have also been acquired from former members of the IRA.

Garda intelligence suggests the rival gangs have also been trying to purchase
rocketpropelled grenades.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Ownership dispute erupts over Kenyan terrorist attack hotel

LENGTH: 258 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Firms in court over terrorist attack
hotel" published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation website on 5 September;
subheading as published

A hotel bombed by terrorists five years ago is at the centre of an ownership
row.

Two firms - ADM Ltd and Eiden Enterprises Ltd - will this morning be laying
claim over Paradise Hotel in Kikambala, Kilifi District [northern Kenya coast].

The hotel, linked to Israelis, was attacked by terrorists on 28 November 2002.
Several Kenyans and Israeli tourists were killed.

It has since been rebuilt, refurbished and reopened.

Its rightful share

In the dispute listed for hearing at the Mombasa High Court, ADM Ltd has sued
Musumarini Ltd, Paradise Mombasa Ltd, Holiday Owners (Trustee) Ltd, Sulami
Yehuda, Free Holiday Ltd, Hannan Adini, Catherine Mwihaki Ngambi and Yosef Guzi.

On its part, Eiden is pursuing Paradise Mombasa Marketing Ltd, Paradise Mombasa
(K) Ltd, Musumarini Ltd Holiday Owners and Paradise Beach Resort for what it
claims as its rightful share of the property.

Both are seeking orders restraining the two groups of defendants from selling or
transferring the property, or interfering with their interests in the same until
their applications are heard and determined.

In its application filed by lawyer Nelson Havi, ADM Ltd says it has been
carrying out hotel and catering business at the premises under the name of
Paradise Beach Resort, with the permission of Musumarini Ltd, Paradise Mombasa
Ltd and Mr Yehuda.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 5 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Pakistani said among three arrested over German terror attack - GEO TV

LENGTH: 81 words


Text of report by Dubai-based Pakistani television GEO TV on 5 September

German police have arrested three people on charge of planning attack on
Frankfurt Airport. According to the German media, two people had German
citizenship, while the third one was a Pakistani. According to the media, these
people were arrested yesterday. The German Ministry of Defence, while confirming
the arrests, said that the attempt at the attack had been foiled.

Source: GEO TV, Dubai, in Urdu 0600 gmt 5 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    September 5, 2007 Wednesday 05:00 PM GMT

Terror suspects 'planned massive attacks'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 760 words


Three Islamic militants from an al-Qaida-influenced group nursing a "profound
hatred of US citizens" were arrested on suspicion of plotting imminent, massive
bomb attacks targeting Americans in Germany, prosecutors said today.

The three men, two German converts to Islam and a Turkish citizen linked to a
group based in Central Asia, had some 1,500lb of hydrogen peroxide - enough to
make a bomb with the explosive power of 1,200lb of TNT, prosecutors said at a
news conference.

It was the second time in as many days that European officials said they had
thwarted a major attack.

Yesterday, Danish authorities arrested eight alleged Islamic militants with
links to senior al-Qaida terrorists.

No direct connection between the two groups has been established, officials
said.

German Federal Prosecutor Monika Harms said the suspects arrested yesterday had
an eye on attacking institutions and establishments frequented by Americans in
Germany, including discos, pubs and airports.

She declined to name specific targets.

"We were able to succeed in recognising and preventing the most serious and
massive bombings," she said.

Chancellor Angela Merkel thanked security officials for foiling the attack and
called the arrests a "very, very great success."

"This shows that terrorist dangers, in our country as well, are not abstract but
are real," she said.

Germany's elite GSG-9 anti-terrorist unit arrested two of the suspects at a
vacation home in central Germany on Tuesday. A third suspect fled through a
bathroom window but was caught about 300 yards away, authorities said.

The suspects, appearing behind closed doors Wednesday at the Federal Court of
Justice in Karlsruhe, were ordered held pending trial.

Officials said the 35-percent hydrogen peroxide solution easily could have been
mixed with other additives to produce a powerful bomb.

"This would have enabled them to make bombs with more explosive power than the
ones used in the London and Madrid bombings," Joerg Ziercke, head of the Federal
Crime Office, Germany's equivalent of the FBI, said at the news conference.

The use of hydrogen peroxide is by no means a first. The four suicide bombers
who killed 52 commuters in London on July 7 2005 used bombs made using hydrogen
peroxide, commonly used in hair dying and colouring.

The two Germans, ages 22 and 28, and the Turkish citizen, 29, first came to the
attention of authorities because they had been caught observing a US. military
facility in Hanau, near Frankfurt, at the end of 2006, officials said. Police
were also searching an Islamic information centre in the town of Ulm in
Baden-Wuerttemburg.

Prosecutors said the three had undergone training at camps in Pakistan run by
the Islamic Jihad Union, and had formed a German cell of the al Qaida-influenced
group. The Islamic Jihad Union is described as a Sunni Muslim group based in
Central Asia that was an offshoot of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, an
extremist group with origins in that country.

"This group distinguishes itself through its profound hatred of US citizens,"
Ziercke said.

The three had no steady work and were collecting unemployment benefits while
their main occupation was the plot, officials said.

US National Security Council spokesman Gordon Johndroe said in Washington that
President George Bush was pleased a potential attack was thwarted and
appreciated the work of the German authorities.

FBI spokesman Richard Kolko said the FBI and US Department of Homeland Security
saw "no imminent threat to the US domestically following these arrests."

But a senior US State Department official said the US Embassy in Berlin had
already boosted security and issued warnings in April and May about possible
terrorist attacks.

The arrests were another alarming report following a failed train bombing last
year and warnings that Germany's troop deployment in Afghanistan could make it
vulnerable.

German and US officials have warned of the possibility of a terrorist attack.

In July 2006, two gas bombs were placed on German commuter trains but did not
explode. Officials said that attack was motivated by anger over cartoons
portraying the Prophet Muhammad in a Danish newspaper. Several suspects are on
trial in Lebanon, and a Lebanese man has been charged in Germany.

Wolfgang Bosbach, a top legislator from Merkel's Christian Democrats, noted the
upcoming sixth anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks, as well as
deliberations by the German parliament in the next few weeks over whether to
extend its troop mandates in Afghanistan.

"We are in a highly sensitive period," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    September 5, 2007 Wednesday 11:06 AM GMT

Airport terror suspects 'planned massive attacks'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Three suspected Islamic terrorists were arrested for plotting "massive" bomb
attacks on Frankfurt's international airport and the Ramstein US Air Base,
German authorities said today.

German federal prosecutor Monika Harms said the three had trained at camps in
Pakistan and procured some 700 kilos of hydrogen peroxide for making explosives.

"This is a good day for security in Germany," she said.

Officials said the 35 percent solution of hydrogen peroxide, stored in a
hide-out, could have been mixed with other additives to produce a bomb with the
explosive power of 550 kilos of TNT.

"This would have enabled them to make bombs with more explosive power than the
ones used in the London and Madrid bombings," Joerg Ziercke, the head of
Germany's Federal Crime Office, said at a joint press conference with Harms.

The three suspects - two Germans and a Turk - first came to the attention of
authorities because they had been observing a US military facility at the end of
2006, officials said.

All three had undergone training at camps in Pakistan run by the Islamic Jihad
Union, and had formed a German cell of the group.

The Islamic Jihad Union was described as a Sunni Muslim group based in Central
Asia that was an offshoot of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, an extremist
group with origins in that country.

The three had no steady work and were drawing unemployment benefits while their
main occupation was the plot, officials said.

"This group distinguishes itself through its profound hatred of US citizens,"
Ziercke said.

Ziercke said members of Germany's elite GSG-9 anti-terrorist unit arrested two
suspects at a holiday home in central Germany yesterday.

A third managed to escape through a bathroom window, but was apprehended about
300 yards later by federal police who had roped off the area.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

AL QAEDA PLOT TO BLOW UP PLANES;
Civilian and military jets targeted Terror cell held days before attack Terror
cell held days before attack Bomb plot

BYLINE: ALLAN HALL

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 283 words


POLICE have smashed a suspected al Qaeda terror cell plotting to bomb civilian
and military jets.

Three men have been arrested in Germany days before they planned to strike.

Bomb-making equipment and explosives are reported to have been seized.

Officials say the attacks would have targeted Frankfurt airport continental
Europe's busiest with dozens of daily flights to Britain and Ramstein, the USA's
largest airbase outside America.

The men two Germans and a Turk were arrested yesterday as two dozen raids took
place across Germany. They are believed to have been detained in the Frankfurt
area.

A "bomb factory" is said to have been found in the village of Oberschledorn in
the Sauerland. Locals said undercover police had been watching the house from a
caravan. Franz Josef Jung, the defence minister, said: "The attacks were planned
for the near future. They presented a real threat to life." The suspects are
believed to have been planning simultaneous attacks on aircraft sitting on the
ground.

As is customary in Germany, the suspects have only been identified by their
first names and last initials. Daniel S comes from the Saarland, Fritz G from
Ulm in Bavaria and Adem Y from Turkey, although there are reports that he holds
a Pakistani passport. The Germans are converts to Islam. At least one of the men
is reported to have received terrorist training overseas.

The German intelligence service is said to have learned of the plot through
emails. The suspects are reported to have confessed. Security services are
trawling their contacts to make sure there are no back-up teams.

Ramstein serves as America's main logistical base to service the war in Iraq.
Germany has ground troops in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Appeal after pit bull terror attack

BYLINE: Michael Casey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: Thurrock Gazette


A GRAYS woman feared for her son's life after a vicious pit bull attacked both
her and her friend's dog.

Debbie Brown, 39, of Kier Hardie House, was walking on Tuesday evening with her
dogs Cassi and Ralph, her son Dean, 4, in the fields near to her Blackshots home
along with her friend Louise Kench, 24, her dog Charlie and her daughter Sophie,
6.

Debbie and Louise saw a dog described as a white pit bull thundering towards
them.

Debbie said:"It went straight for Charlie and sunk its teeth into her neck. We
all screamed. Its owner appeared. He picked up the dog but it still had
Charlie's neck clamped in its mouth."

The owner eventually shook Charlie free but with his dog free, Debbie feared the
worse.

She said: "It roamed around as if it was looking for its next prey. I was
convinced it was going to attack the kids, so we grabbed them and screamed at it
to go away.

"Cassi was off her lead, so it went for her. I put my hand out to protect her
but it sunk its teeth right into my finger."

Debbie was left clutching her bloodied finger in agony as the dog and its
unmoved owners walked away across the fields.

Essex Police and Ambulance services attended immediately.

Debbie was taken to Basildon Hospital where she was told that she was lucky not
to lose the finger.

Debbie said: "I am still in pain but thankful it didn't touch the kids.We are a
close knit, animal loving community who should be left to walk in peace."

Spokesman for Essex Police, Bill Stock said: "This is a very serious incident
and wwe ould appeal to anyone who could identify the dog or its owners.

"We would look to prosecute under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991."

The owner was described as male, white, 5ft 10, local accent slender build with
dark hair.

His partner was female, of oriental appearance, slim and aged 20 to 25.

*Pit bull attacks and  mauls family pet.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday

German interior minister urges vigilance against terror attacks

LENGTH: 311 words


Text of report by German newspaper Bild on 6 September

[Interview with Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble by R. Kleine and J. Meyer
on 5 September; place not given: "We Were Close to a Disaster"]

[Bild] Mr Minister, how close was Germany to a terror disaster?

[Schaeuble] Any preparations for an attack brings us close to a disaster. In the
case of the suitcase bombers last year it was good luck that the bombs did not
work. This time it was the excellent work of our security authorities that saved
us from a series of attacks. If you like: the good luck of the competent ones.

[Bild] Are our antiterror laws sufficient, or do we need stricter laws?

[Schaeuble] It is still too early to talk about this now. However, one thing is
clear: we must constantly improve our technical reconnaissance methods in the
field of terrorism so as to detect plans for crimes.

[Bild] For six months 300 policemen investigated around the clock. Is our police
prepared for such mega operations in the long run?

[Schaeuble] Such operations over many months certainly take the policemen
involved to the limits of their capacity. However, one advantage of the good
cooperation between the Federal Government and the laender also consists in the
fact that all police authorities can unite their forces.

[Bild] Do you assume that more attacks will be planned in Germany?

[Schaeuble] We do not have any specific indications of this. But we must remain
vigilant.

[Bild] A young German converts to Islam - and becomes a terrorist. Can you
explain this?

[Schaeuble] There is no simple explanation for this. One would think that
someone who grows up here and enjoys the great advantages of our free society
would be immune. However, some people are susceptible to radicalization. These
are dangerous fanatics with a high criminal energy. This worries me very much.

Source: Bild, Hamburg, in German 6 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday

Austrian Interior Ministry sees no "immediate" danger from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 435 words


Text of report by Austrian newspaper Die Presse on 6 September

[Report by "eko/red": "No Acute Danger to Austria"]

Vienna - Austria is not in immediate danger. This is the tenor after the plans
for attacks in Germany became known. The Interior Ministry says that there is no
similarly acute threat as in Germany. Nevertheless, it would be a fatal delusion
to "feel completely safe" in Austria, security expert Robert Sturm says, who
used to be chief inspector of the Antiterrorism Task Force.

Even though Austria is not playing "the same important role" in international
politics as the United States or Germany, which have troops stationed in Muslims
countries, Austria is no "island of the blessed," either. After all, the current
incident in Germany took place only 250 km from the border.

The Islamist Jihad Union, which planned the attacks in Germany, is also known to
the Austrian constitutional protectors - in particular from contacts with
foreign services. However, in our country the group does "not" have "a
structure," says Rudolf Gollia, the Interior Ministry's spokesman.

However, the current Constitutional Protection Report shows that there is a
"considerable potential of danger" in Austria in the medium of long term. The
report warns, among other things, of the fact that young people are increasingly
getting into contact with the Islamist-extremist scene. And it also specifically
points to the role of converts - this is interesting, because the terror
suspects in Germany are converts.

Converts Targeted

The Constitutional Protection Report says that those people who convert to Islam
are often under the strong influence of other extremist persons. In particular
they are striving for social recognition in the extremist scene, which might
lead to the potential participation in terrorist activities. In fact, in
September 2006 there was a case in which a young convert planted a fake bomb in
front of the office of the Austrian Muslim Youth.

However, the constitutional protectors note reassuringly that only a small
number of converts tend towards becoming radical. And the number of people
converting to Islam in Austria is probably also very small. Anas Schakfeh,
president of the Muslim Community, told Die Presse that there are about 30
conversions per year.

In any case, the danger of terrorist attacks will not bring about any major
changes in Austria. And the Pope's upcoming visit will not change anything,
either, the Interior Ministry said - at least for the time being. The danger
situation is constantly being re-evaluated, it was stressed.

Source: Die Presse, Vienna, in German 6 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday

Terrorised family flees grudge attacks

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 363 words


A man says he and his family are being terrorised by a gang who suspect he is a
police informer.

Pianist Peregrine Watson said his home has been wrecked and now he and his two
teenage daughters have been forced to flee.

In the most recent attack the family's home on the outskirts of Truro was
ransacked by intruders and damage running into thousands of pounds was caused.

Now they are in hiding and plan to leave the area altogether.

Mr Watson believes he is being targeted because criminals suspect he provided
police with information relating to drug dealers. He insists that he did not.

"I am not a grass, but certain people think I am because I spoke to the police
during  their  recent investigations."

He added: "The drug scene in Cornwall is getting as bad as in cities like
Manchester. There are some heavy criminals involved."

Mr Watson, a member of local rock group Lunasea, says he has been forced to take
his daughters into hiding.

"We cannot believe we have been targeted like this. I have been nothing but a
good boy for the past few years.

"I run a successful piano dealership in St Agnes and all I want is the best for
my family."

Mr Watson has brought his daughters up single-handedly since the death of their
mother 10 years ago.

He said he has received threatening text messages from people who he believes
are linked to a dangerous drug dealer.

His  home has been targeted four times in the past few weeks. A ceiling has
collapsed, paint has been poured over the family's possessions and the word
'grass' has been  daubed on walls throughout the property.

A sink has been ripped away from the wall and furniture and a laptop computer
have been smashed up.

"I'm scared for my family's safety," he said.

"Two weeks ago the windows were put through in my studios in St Agnes and my car
was trashed.

"This is the work of gangsters."

Mr Watson said he is devastated and has had to stop giving piano lessons from
his studios and his life has been turned upside down.

"Aside from the emotional burden on me and my family, I estimate the cost of the
damage to my studio and property to be more than £10,000."

* Police have carried out a number of drug raids in the Truro area recently.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 7, 2007 Friday

South Ossetia accuses Georgia of organizing "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 177 words


South Ossetian separatist interior minister Mikhail Mindzayev has reacted to the
explosion of a cell phone in Tskhinvali this morning, the South Ossetian Press
and Information Committee website reports.

In his interview to the Res news agency, he is said to have described the
explosion as a Georgian-organized "terrorist attack" aimed at "getting rid of
the Ossetians". He is also reported to have said that Georgia has already
evicted 100,000 Ossetians from its territory, but the plan will not work in
South Ossetia, an "independent and free state".

The website also reports that eyewitnesses described the incident as follows:
Igor Kokoyev, 24, was going to work at about 0900 (0500 gmt) when he heard a
cell phone in the roadside grass ring. When he bent his head to take it, the
phone exploded. The website says that the scene of the incident is very close to
the Georgian-populated village of Tamarasheni and that there have been other
such cases in the past, too.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 7 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            September 7, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

US doctors attacked for'failing' terror detainees

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 385 words


More than 260 doctors from around the world have launched an unprecedented
attack on the American medical establishment for its failure to condemn
unethical practices by physicians at the Guantanamo Bay prison camp in Cuba.

In a letter to today's The Lancet, the doctors from 16 countries, including
Britain and America, say the failure of the US regulatory authorities to act is
"damaging the reputation of US military medicine".

They compare the actions of the military doctors, whom they accuse of being
involved in the force-feeding of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay and of turning a
blind eye to evidence of torture in Iraq and elsewhere, to those of the South
African security police involved in the death of the anti-apartheid activist
Steve Biko 30 years ago.

The group highlighted the force-feeding of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay last year
and suggested the physicians involved should be referred to their professional
bodies for breaching internationally accepted ethical guidelines.

The doctors wrote: "No healthcare worker in the War on Terror has been charged
or convicted of any significant offence despite numerous instances documented
including fraudulent record-keeping on detainees who have died as a result of
failed interrogations. The attitude of the US military establishment appears to
be one of 'See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil'."

The US introduced the policy of force-feeding, in which prisoners are strapped
to a chair and a tube is forced down the throat into the stomach, after more
than 100 prisoners went on hunger strike in 2005.

"Fundamental to doctors' responsibilities in attending a hunger striker is the
recognition that prisoners have a right to refuse treatment," the doctors wrote.

David Nicholl, consultant neurologist at City Hospital Birmingham, lodged formal
complaints with two US medical boards in California and Georgia and the American
Medical Association after last year's protest.

In the Lancet article Dr Nicholl and his co-signatories, say: "After 18 months
there had been no reply from the AMA, the Californian authorities stated that
they 'do not have the jurisdiction to investigate'... and the authorities in
Georgia stated that the 'complaint was thoroughly investigated', but 'the Board
conclued that there was not sufficient evidence to support prosecution'."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                            September 7, 2007 Friday

Arson attack family's terror leap to safety

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 621 words


A young mother yesterday relived the terrifying moments when she and her family
were forced to jump to safety from a burning house.

The family of four were burned out of their home in West Cornwall during the
early hours of yesterday    morning after the blaze had been deliberately
started.

As the fire took hold, the family had to jump the 12 feet from their first-floor
flat.

Caroline Curry, 23, said: "I thought we were all going to die.  We were in the
middle of a nightmare.

"If we hadn't got out in time, then whoever did this would have had the blood of
my babies on their hands.

"I'm still in shock and can't believe someone would do this to a family - we
could have been burnt alive."

Ms Curry said that she and her partner Matthew Holden, 24, a chef, were woken up
at about 3.40am by a loud banging on the downstairs door.

Unbeknown to the couple, someone had pushed a scooter belonging to the family up
against the door and had set it alight.

The deliberate action  meant that the family's only escape route was barred.

Ms Curry  described how Mr Holden grabbed the couple's youngest child, Tommy,
aged one, and leapt out of the window.  She then threw their eldest child,
five-year-old Ricky,  into her partner's outstretched arms.

Ms Curry then jumped out of the window herself, landing awkwardly and breaking
her ankle and hurting her back. The children were not hurt.

Ms Curry was taken to West Cornwall Hospital in Penzance.

She said: "If Matt hadn't had the courage to jump, I would never have had the
nerve to follow.  Had the children and myself been in the flat alone, I know I
could not have jumped.  His example saved us all."

Police, fire and ambulance services were called to the flat in Chywoone
Crescent, on the  Gwavas Estate, Newlyn. Smoke alarms in the flat had not been
working.

The stairwell of the flat was badly damaged and the rest of the home was
smoke-filled.  The downstairs flat was empty at the time of the fire.

After the call at 3.40am, two fire engines from Penzance and one from St Just
were followed by a fourth   appliance from Penzance.

The first engine was on the scene in ten minutes, the second  within 14 minutes
and the third from St Just within 15 minutes.

All of the firefighters were involved were retained firefighters who were
mobilised from their homes by pagers.

In total, 15 firefighters from Penzance attended and six from St Just.

Assistant Divisional Officer Andy Barrett was on scene within nine minutes,
according to fire bosses.

Deputy Chief Fire Officer  Ted Simpson  said: "The emergency call that came
through to fire control gave them enough information to make the decision to
send three fire engines immediately.  Two fire engines from Penzance were on the
scene within minutes but the fire was already well developed when they arrived.

"Firefighters immediately ensured everyone was out and quickly extinguished the
fire in the first-floor flat.

"The fire investigation revealed that the exit from the premises was blocked and
the smoke alarm was not working because it had been tampered with.

"Fortunately, the family were able to escape out of the windows and quick
thinking by the neighbours helped to stop the fire spreading."

Fire officers said arson was suspected.

Det Sgt Pat Pitts denied the incident was being treated as attempted murder.

He said: "We are treating this fire as suspicious.  The family have been through
a terrible ordeal.

"House-to-house inquiries have been made and we are continuing to investigate
the cause."

The 250 to 300 houses on the estate were built in the late 1930s.  In 1994,
Penwith Housing Association bought the stock from Penwith District Council.

Staff at the housing association are working to find alternative accommodation
for the family.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          September 8, 2007, Saturday

Why don't the terrorists attack us more?

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1170 words


At dawn on Thursday morning I was flying through fog at more than 100mph, three
feet above the ground. We had no means of diverting from our course, nor of
stopping in less than a mile. The visibility was perhaps 50 yards. I was on a
train.

I could tell you which and where; but though what follows is blindingly obvious
and must have occurred too to millions of my fellow citizens, a columnist fears
putting into published words what some ghoul might take up as an idea upon which
to act.

Anyway, it doesn't matter where. Actually it doesn't matter that the visibility
was reduced by fog. Even in clear daylight a train driver must travel at speeds
whose corresponding stopping distances far exceed visibility. If line-side
signalling were audible instead of visible then, for all the difference it would
make, locomotives could be driven for much of their journey with the windscreens
blacked. Docklands Light Railway trains in London have dispensed altogether with
drivers.

Speeding along through the September fog, then -flying blind -I was struck (as
any railway passenger must often have been) by this thought.

A concrete block is easily procured. A pair of wire cutters can be bought across
the counter in any DIY shop. High-speed rail tracks can be accessed easily and
discreetly in innumerable lonely places across the country. I forbear to say
more.

In an age in which the modern mass media are believed to probe every nook and
cranny of human thought, holding nothing back, there persist vast and
inexplicable divides between what people actually think and feel, and what
broadcasters and journalists depict as our habits of mind and sentiment. There
are huge questions, huge "I wonders" that rarely find their way into
publication. One of these has nagged at me since the IRA terrorist scares of the
1970s, '80s and '90s, and throughout the so-called War on Terror; and I should
be surprised if it did not nag millions of my countrymen too. This is not the
question of why terrorists do the things they do. It is the question of why they
don't do more.

Doing more would be so easy. In an open society like ours the national throat is
open and exposed for the cutting in a hundred places. A small amount of
explosive beneath pylons in a million unguarded locations will bring down a
high-tension power supply. A drop of poison at a thousand access points to our
water supplies could kill hundreds. A brick dropped from a motorway bridge on to
a coach's windscreen combines a good chance of murder with minimal risk of
capture. Our railways are essentially unguarded.

Such atrocities -every reader will have his or her own list -have no need of
suicide merchants for their execution. For explosions any crude timing device
will do: why should the bomber blow himself up too, unless he wants to? Many
could be attempted with something close to impunity.

They do not require hundreds of gallons, carefully hoarded, of hydrogen peroxide
in Germany, or complicated cavities inside shoes, or advanced electronics.

The easier kind of hit does occasionally occur. Lunatics, vandals and (less
often) serious political activists have been known to attack infrastructure and
life itself in some of the easy ways. But on the whole, terrorists choose the
difficult ones. And, matching their arrows with our armour, we guard the
difficult ones.

Is there some strange way in which this satisfies both? Is there a kind of
unconscious agreement? Are we and the terrorist supplying for the fight a title
that satisfies the vanities of both teams -"War" on "Terror" -then choosing the
domain and battleground where fixtures are to be played: exotic venues such as
jets, subterranean railway tunnels, nightclubs, packed commuter terminals; and
finally agreeing even on a pair of mutually opposed and appropriately impossible
outcomes counting as the knockout win that both half-fear: the Destruction of
the West vs the Elimination of Terrorism? Is there a creepy, subliminal pact? I
ask not rhetorically -this really is a question -but because I have noticed a
series of clues for a riddle to which this could (I emphasise could) be an
answer.

The first clue is something that has mystified me about politicians ever since I
first became one. Few of them are at all interested in government. By
"government" I mean not grand debates about national destiny, but sound,
capable, efficient public administration: the effective running of the country.
This has to be the first thing politics is for -without it what else can be
achieved? -yet had you been privy to the countless private, informal social
chatter between practising politicians to which I've been witness, you would be
amazed at how weak is the interest of most of them in running things. My own
great concern, transport, is regarded within both the Conservative and the
Labour parliamentary parties as the province of nerds and also-rans.

The second clue lies in the parallels between the enthusiasms, analysis and
commentary aroused by politics, and those of the world of sport. For us
political commentators, general elections are World Cups.

Referendums, local, European and intra-party elections lie in the lower
divisions.

We stay up all night to watch (for fun alone: we don't need the results until
morning); we even record and replay classic political matches. Listen to
political enthusiasts talking among themselves. You will see I'm right.

The third clue is related: our obsession with public performance as a measure of
political calibre. Prime Minister's Questions becomes a kind of Match of the
Day.

The fourth clue is the fascination that conflict holds for politicians and their
hangers-on. Elections are one kind of joust, of course, but rows and contests of
every variety -economic summits, stand-offs between nations, and finally, of
course, wars -are what rivet the politico's attention. Curious, because in terms
of human administration, conflict is usually a sort of failure, often on both
sides.

And the fifth clue was where I started: my suspicion that terrorist movements do
not act rationally in the targets they choose, and governments do not always
respond rationally, instead playing things up rather than down and reinforcing
defences of what terrorists nominate as targets. Were al-Qaeda to strike next by
reintroducing foot-and-mouth disease into Britain, I have a suspicion that both
sides -including violent Islamists -would have the uneasy feeling that this was
cheating: unsporting, like dynamiting fish.

As a schoolboy I used to wonder why pivotal battles in history seemed to take
place on agreed grounds at an agreed time according to agreed rules. Why
Hastings? Why Verdun? Why Trafalgar? Why not kill the French sailors when they
tried to come ashore? I still wonder. And now I begin to wonder whether the War
on Terror, too, has subliminal echoes of a sporting series, with fixtures,
scoring systems and rules mutually agreed. Do we really want what we think, say
and sincerely believe we want. Does the young Islamist? Or are we all enjoying
this?

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday

Algerian premier says security measures were taken to face terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 337 words


Text of report by Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on 9 September

Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem has said, in a statement to "El Khaber"
[newspaper], the government had taken strict security measures that were
expected to be implemented on the occasion of Ramadan [fasting month], in
anticipation of any emergency or terrorist attacks. In this regard, he said:
"Strict security measures have been taken without terrifying citizens or curbing
their freedom."

In this regard, President Bouteflika has stressed: "We should remain cautious
because treacherous hands will not stop from committing crimes against innocent
citizens and their country."

El khaber has been informed, in this regard, that, following his return from
Batna on Friday afternoon [7 September] the president of the republic might have
chaired a meeting of the Higher Council for Security to examine ways to
reinforce precautionary measures, in anticipation of any terrorist groups'
attacks and to regain initiative on ground by means of precise military
operations that would neutralize the masterminds of the suicide bombings.

It is worth nothing that the president of the republic issued on the last 5
July, during his annual speech before the high ranking officers of the People's
National Army [ANP], in his capacity as the commander of the armed forces, his
orders "to intensify efforts in the fight against remains of terrorism."

Meanwhile, the prime minister expressed Algeria's gratitude for the
international reaction following the recent terrorist attacks and said: "Who
will accept the killing and terrifying of innocent people? Neither logic nor
religion tolerates it... [Ellipsis as published].  It is normal that Algeria has
the sympathy of the world against those who choose the path of evil." Belkhadem
said that "Algeria has been the target of terrorist groups for 17 years ago";
adding that "despite its painful and treacherous attacks, these groups are
heading towards their end".

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 9 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday

Arab League condemns terror attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 9 September: The Arab League [AL] condemned Sunday [9 September] terror
attacks that hit Algeria during the past two days.

In press statements Sunday, AL Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs
Ahmad Bin-Hilli asserted solidarity with Algeria in the face of such criminal
terror actions.

He said the AL is confident that the Algerian people are capable of eliminating
terrorists.

The AL highly appreciates the efforts exerted by Algerian President Abdelaziz
Bouteflika to promote Algeria's unity, he added.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1416 gmt 9 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 9, 2007

UNITED NATIONS: Security Council 5738 th Meeting* (PM); Security Council
condemns in strongest terms terrorist attack in Algeria; Urges all states to
cooperate in bringing perpetrators to justice

LENGTH: 535 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 9, 2007-UNITED NATIONS: Security Council 5738 th Meeting*
(PM); Security Council condemns in strongest terms terrorist attack in Algeria;
Urges all states to cooperate in bringing perpetrators to justice ©1994-2007 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The Security Council this afternoon condemned in the strongest terms yesterday's
terrorist attack that caused numerous deaths and injuries in Batna, Algeria, and
expressed its deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims of that heinous
act and their families, as well as the people and Government of Algeria.

Through a statement read out by its President for the month of September,
Jean-Maurice Ripert (France), the Council also underlined the need to bring
perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of that reprehensible act of
terrorism to justice, urging all States to cooperate actively with the Algerian
authorities in that regard. The Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations constituted one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal
and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

The meeting was called to order at 12:45 p.m. and adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2007/32 reads as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack that
occurred in Batna ( Algeria), on 6 September 2007, causing numerous deaths and
injuries, and expresses its deep sympathy and condolences to the victims of this
heinous act of terrorism and their families, and to the people and the
Government of Algeria.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to justice, and
urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1624 (2005), to cooperate actively with the
Algerian authorities in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The Council reminds States that
they must ensure that any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all
their obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

* The 5737^th Meeting was closed.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday

Cyber terrorists' embassy suicide attack plot foiled

BYLINE: Jason Lewis

SECTION: FB; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 416 words


TERRORISTS plotting a suicide attack against the British Embassy in Denmark were
rounded up last week as they put the finishing touches to a devastating bomb.

The men are believed to be the remnants of the socalled '007' terror network,
co-ordinated by Londonbased Islamic militants using a series of secret internet
sites.

Senior intelligence sources say the group planned to target Western embassies in
Copenhagen with the British and American missions at the top of their list.

The arrests came one day before police in Frankfurt arrested three men on
suspicion of planning a 'massive' attack on US facilities in Germany.

The planned attacks in Denmark were apparently designed to mark the anniversary
of the September 11 attacks in New York and Washington.

Eight suspects were arrested after a surveillance team learned they were mixing
unstable chemicals to make deadly TATP inside a block of flats in Copenhagen.

The men, who are aged between 19 and 29 and from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia
and Turkey, are believed to be part of an Al Qaeda network that had received
orders from a group of British-based cyber terrorists.

The British group's activities were stopped by an MI5 investigation earlier this
year when three men were jailed for encouraging suicide missions using online
forums and websites.

Their websites were also used as a secure communications centre by several
senior Al Qaeda operatives, including two Bosnian-based terror chiefs known as
'Maximus' and 'Danish Turk'. The pair were jailed over a plot to mount a suicide
attack against a Western embassy in Sarajevo.

And The Mail on Sunday understands that two of those arrested in Copenhagen had
been in regular telephone contact with them and under longterm surveillance by
Danish intelligence.

It was also the Bosnian pair's arrest that led to MI5's exposure of the British
internet gang. The group - led by an IT expert using the online name Irhabi007,
Arabic for Terrorist007 - set up websites from their bedrooms in London and
Kent.

Three men, Tariq Al-Daour, 21, Younis Tsouli, 23, and Waseem Mughal, 24, were
jailed in London in July after pleading guilty to inciting terrorist murder and
conspiracy to defraud.

After the Copenhagen arrests Jakob Scharf, head of the Danish intelligence
service PET, said: 'With the arrests we have prevented a terror attack. They
also have been producing an unstable explosive in a densely populated area.' He
said Danish investigators had worked with 'several foreign co-operation
partners'.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED: Tariq Al-Daour

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      September 9, 2007 Sunday 2:47 AM BST

NEW TOWERS TO RISE FROM TERROR ATTACK ASHES

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, PA, in New York

LENGTH: 685 words


The World Trade Centre site will be transformed into the ``most dynamic
state-of-the-art business district anywhere on Earth'' as New York City rises
from the ashes of September 11, architects and city officials said.

Three buildings will rise next to the iconic Freedom Tower, along the site's
eastern edge, forming what will be the heart of a revitalised retail,
transportation and office corridor which will overlook the permanent memorial
site.

Construction on the three towers will begin next year, with the aim of being
completed by late 2011 or early 2012.

Janno Lieber, director of the World Trade Centre development, said it would be
the ``newest, most dynamic state-of-the-art mixed use business district anywhere
on Earth, and New York City will have taken a huge step towards meeting its
crying need for new office space to keep and attract first-class jobs''.

Work on the Freedom Tower was originally delayed and the building was redesigned
after police said more security was needed to protect it from terrorism.

But steel for that 1,776ft tower has nearly reached street level and security
across the whole site would be ``exceptional'', Mr Lieber said.

Jennifer Adams, CEO of the September 11 Families Association, said she thought
the new towers would be ``sacred ground'' and the ``safest buildings in the
world''.

Planners of the memorial to the 2001 terrorist attacks said a pavilion that
leads to an underground September 11 museum will include an auditorium and
classroom space.

London-based architect Lord Norman Foster and his firm will be responsible for
Tower Two at 200 Greenwich Street.

The 79-storey tower, which will rise to 1,270ft and be topped by an 80ft
antenna, will contain 138,000 square feet of retail space, 60 office floors,
four trading floors and a 65ft high office lobby.

Its diamond-shaped summit will shine across the Manhattan skyline and act as a
symbolic marker of the location of the Memorial Park when viewed from any
location.

World Trade Centre developer Larry Silverstein said: ``Each of the three towers
is distinct, yet all three are architecturally compatible and work together
seamlessly.

``This is an exciting time and we have before us an opportunity to make a
lasting contribution to New York City and to its downtown historic skyline.''

He added: ``It's been a bumpy road at times but now we have reached this point I
couldn't be any happier.''

Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the New York Assembly, said predictions six years ago
that Lower Manhattan was finished as a major financial area and the city's
response to the attacks was to establish ``a community that is stronger and
safer, bigger and better, than ever before''.

``Many long to see Lower Manhattan rise from the ashes of September 11,'' he
said.

``But I don't think there's anyone who longs to see that happen more than I.
Five generations of Silvers have lived in Lower Manhattan.''

Anthony Shorris, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, said the project was ``as complex a project as has ever been undertaken
in the United States, perhaps the world''.

``What we have here today, I believe, will create a site that is worthy of this
city and the emotional history that is taking place here today,'' he said.

Tower Three at 175 Greenwich Street will rise to 1,147ft above street level,
with the antennae reaching almost 1,240ft, and will include 193,000 square feet
of retail space, 54 office floors and five trading floors.

And Tower Four, at 150 Greenwich Street, will include 64 storeys in a 975ft tall
building. It will have 56 office floors and five floors of retail space.

Last month the World Trade Centre site was the scene of another tragedy when a
blaze in the derelict Deutsche Bank building near to Ground Zero caused the
deaths of two firefighters.

The building will be demolished and a vehicle security centre will be
established in its space.

Avi Schick, chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said: ``We
are going to proceed carefully, we're going to proceed expeditiously, but we
will get that wretched building down and we will get it down soon.''

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 10, 2007 Monday 1:04 PM BST

NEW TOWERS TO RISE FROM TERROR ATTACK ASHES

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, PA, in New York

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 685 words


The World Trade Centre site will be transformed into the ``most dynamic
state-of-the-art business district anywhere on Earth'' as New York City rises
from the ashes of September 11, architects and city officials said.

Three buildings will rise next to the iconic Freedom Tower, along the site's
eastern edge, forming what will be the heart of a revitalised retail,
transportation and office corridor which will overlook the permanent memorial
site.

Construction on the three towers will begin next year, with the aim of being
completed by late 2011 or early 2012.

Janno Lieber, director of the World Trade Centre development, said it would be
the ``newest, most dynamic state-of-the-art mixed use business district anywhere
on Earth, and New York City will have taken a huge step towards meeting its
crying need for new office space to keep and attract first-class jobs''.

Work on the Freedom Tower was originally delayed and the building was redesigned
after police said more security was needed to protect it from terrorism.

But steel for that 1,776ft tower has nearly reached street level and security
across the whole site would be ``exceptional'', Mr Lieber said.

Jennifer Adams, CEO of the September 11 Families Association, said she thought
the new towers would be ``sacred ground'' and the ``safest buildings in the
world''.

Planners of the memorial to the 2001 terrorist attacks said a pavilion that
leads to an underground September 11 museum will include an auditorium and
classroom space.

London-based architect Lord Norman Foster and his firm will be responsible for
Tower Two at 200 Greenwich Street.

The 79-storey tower, which will rise to 1,270ft and be topped by an 80ft
antenna, will contain 138,000 square feet of retail space, 60 office floors,
four trading floors and a 65ft high office lobby.

Its diamond-shaped summit will shine across the Manhattan skyline and act as a
symbolic marker of the location of the Memorial Park when viewed from any
location.

World Trade Centre developer Larry Silverstein said: ``Each of the three towers
is distinct, yet all three are architecturally compatible and work together
seamlessly.

``This is an exciting time and we have before us an opportunity to make a
lasting contribution to New York City and to its downtown historic skyline.''

He added: ``It's been a bumpy road at times but now we have reached this point I
couldn't be any happier.''

Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the New York Assembly, said predictions six years ago
that Lower Manhattan was finished as a major financial area and the city's
response to the attacks was to establish ``a community that is stronger and
safer, bigger and better, than ever before''.

``Many long to see Lower Manhattan rise from the ashes of September 11,'' he
said.

``But I don't think there's anyone who longs to see that happen more than I.
Five generations of Silvers have lived in Lower Manhattan.''

Anthony Shorris, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, said the project was ``as complex a project as has ever been undertaken
in the United States, perhaps the world''.

``What we have here today, I believe, will create a site that is worthy of this
city and the emotional history that is taking place here today,'' he said.

Tower Three at 175 Greenwich Street will rise to 1,147ft above street level,
with the antennae reaching almost 1,240ft, and will include 193,000 square feet
of retail space, 54 office floors and five trading floors.

And Tower Four, at 150 Greenwich Street, will include 64 storeys in a 975ft tall
building. It will have 56 office floors and five floors of retail space.

Last month the World Trade Centre site was the scene of another tragedy when a
blaze in the derelict Deutsche Bank building near to Ground Zero caused the
deaths of two firefighters.

The building will be demolished and a vehicle security centre will be
established in its space.

Avi Schick, chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said: ``We
are going to proceed carefully, we're going to proceed expeditiously, but we
will get that wretched building down and we will get it down soon.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           September 10, 2007, Monday
                               News Extra Edition

Mock terrorist attack shows Navy's vital role

BYLINE: Gavin O'Connor South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 344 words


A VICTIM of a terror attack writhes in agony as nurses rush around treating the
injured.

They are scenes of panic, blended with blood, guts and broken bones, but without
the real life pain, confusion and trauma that comes with it.

The elaborate scenario of an unexpected attack on the South Wales coast was
staged by the Royal Navy in and around HMS Cambria in Sully at the weekend.

Simulated casualties were flown in by a Merlin helicopter in an operation
involving 250 Royal Navy personnel, reservists and potential recruits from
across Wales.

The mock attacks against key installations on the coast between Nash Point and
Lavernock Point were an elaborate recruitment drive as part of a massive
training day by the Royal Navy.

As the ailing actors were ferried from the big metal bird to triage units, there
were occasional smiles to go with the trussed-up torsos, legs and arms of
red-inked victims.

Looking after them was Eileen Munson, a recruit who went on to serve 25 years as
a reservist.

Eileen, 45, a mum of one, of Rhoose, has been a senior lecturer at the
University of Glamorgan for the past five years and primary care nurse
practitioner at a surgery in Penygraig, Rhondda. Last year, she spent six weeks
in Iraq.

She explained what persuaded her to sign up.

"What clinched it for me was seeing the Falklands War and what happened to Simon
Weston," she said.

"Watching him being nursed made me think, 'yes, that's what I want to do'."

Lieutenant Steve Fry, head recruiting officer for the Royal Navy, said there had
been a steady stream of new recruits over the last five years.

"It's always a good thing to get people to see what we do," said Steve. "More
people are wanting to come forward."

Potential recruits Bethan Thomas, 14, and her sister Cerys, 10, watched as the
training exercise progressed.

The sisters, of Chorley Close, Fairwater, Cardiff, are sea cadets and keen to
follow mum Sue, 37, a communications operator, into the Royal Navy.

Bethan said: "Cerys wants to be a reservist doctor and I'll be old enough next
year to start training as a recruit."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Brussels demonstrators urge independent inquiry into 9/11 terror attacks

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report by Belgian newspaper De Standaard website on 10 September

[Belga report: "Demonstration Demands Independent Inquiry of 9/11"]

Some 200 people participated in a march in Brussels yesterday to demand an
independent inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. There were
delegations from France, the Netherlands, and Spain.

The organizers of the demonstration want that all parties involved, including
organizations for victims and various civic bodies, be heard.

"We do not claim to know what exactly happened in New York and Washington on 11
September, but we have qualms about the official version, which contains too
many inconsistencies," said Olivier Durutti, one of the organizers of the march,
which walked from the Brussels North to the Brussels South railway station.

Source: De Standaard website, Groot-Bijgaarden, in Dutch 10 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Iran's Ahmadinezhad condemns "terrorist attacks" in Algeria

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

Tehran, 11 September: President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad strongly condemned recent
terrorist attacks in Algeria on Tuesday [11 September], saying that murdering
defenceless people is "unacceptable."

"Killing defenceless people is unacceptable according to all human principles,"
said the president in a message of condolences sent to his Algerian counterpart
Abdelaziz Bouteflika.

Expressing Tehran's strong protest regarding the attacks, President Ahmadinezhad
reiterated Iran's solidarity with the government and people of Algeria.

More than 50 people were killed in two terrorist bombings in east and southeast
Algiers. The north Africa wing of the al-Qa'idah terrorist organization dubbed
'the Al-Qa'idah Organization in the Islamic Maghreb,' has later announced that
it was behind the two bombings.

The first bombing happened on Thursday in Batna town, 400 km southeast of the
Algerian capital, killing 19 people and injuring 107 others while the second
attack occurred in the port of Dellys, some 100 km east of Algiers.

The second blast left 40 dead and injured.

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 1113 gmt 11 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

One of attackers called Romanian number before 9/11 terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report in English by Romanian news agency Rompres

["Romanian Intelligence: 'Hijacker Mohammed Atta's Phone Call To Romania Not
Connected to September 11 Attacks'"  Rompres headline]

Bucharest, Sept 11 (Rompres) - There is no connection between the phone call to
a Romanian number made by one of the terrorists involved in the Sept. 11, 2001
attacks and the subsequent succession of events, spokesman of the Romanian
Intelligence Service (SRI) Sorin Sava stated on Tuesday.

"To us, things are crystal clear. There is no operative connection requiring SRI
to take action in one way or another," concluded the cited official.

The French daily Liberation, cited by AFP, published on Tuesday a groundbreaking
classified American report on the activities of the 19 authors of the Sept. 11
terrorist strikes in the 18 months preceding the attacks. The report titled
"Twinbom-Pentbom" - the official name that is also found in other FBI syntheses
regarding the attacks on the twin towers and the Pentagon - provides details on
all the moves of the 19 hijackers before Sept. 11: false identities used, called
phone numbers, trips, bank operations, meetings with accomplices and friends,
addresses. According to Liberation, the report mentions terrorist leader
Mohammed Atta having called a Romanian number before the attacks.

Source: Rompres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1131 gmt 11 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Pakistan PM says suicide attack "cowardly act of terror"

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 11 September: Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz Tuesday [11 September]
strongly condemned the suicide attack in Dera Ismail Khan that caused heavy loss
of innocent lives.

"Such cowardly acts of terror would not deter the government's resolve to root
out the scourge of extremism," Aziz said and reiterated government's commitment
to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.

The prime minister sympathized with the families of those who lost their lives
and prayed to Almighty Allah to rest the departed souls in peace and grant
courage to the bereaved families to bear this irreparable loss.

The prime minister directed the security agencies to investigate and apprehend
the culprits involved in this heinous act. He directed the authorities to ensure
proper medical treatment of the injured.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1338gmt
11 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

KIDNAP GIRL'S TERROR ORDEAL;
Attacker snatched teenage victim from Coventry street

BYLINE: By Sinead Keller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 396 words


A KIDNAPPER who snatched a terrified schoolgirl from a Coventry street is today
behind bars.

James Stapleton forced his 15-year-old victim back to his flat by threatening to
slit her throat. During a 60-minute ordeal he tied her to a chair and his bed
before kissing her.

The girl says she will always "live in fear" following the attack in Tile Hill,
Coventry.

Stapleton, aged 19, had tried and failed to abduct another girl just a fortnight
before, Coventry Crown Court heard yesterday.

Judge Christopher Hodson sentenced him to a three years and four months public
detention order at a young offenders' institution.

Stapleton, of Bantock Road, Tile Hill, pleaded guilty to kidnap, attempted
kidnap, sexual assault and false imprisonment.

The judge said Stapleton posed a "significant" risk to young women.

Stapleton first struck on January 3 when he saw a girl walking through Limbrick
Wood Tile Hill, between Jardine Crescent and James Green Road, a popular
short-cut.

He approached the girl and tried to grab her, but she ran away.

Prosecuting, Samantha Forsythe said that almost two weeks later, on January 15
at mid-afternoon, Stapleton attacked a second girl.

She said: "He put his hand over her mouth and indicated he would slit her
throat. He then walked her to his flat.

"He tied her hands behind her back and bound her feet with tape. He then moved
her to the bathroom and tied her to the shower rail with a shoe lace, before
moving her to the bedroom where he tied her to the bed."

Miss Forsythe said Stapleton allowed the girl to leave.

A statement from the girl was read out which said: "I'm trying really hard to
get on with my life but this will stay with me forever and I will always live in
fear."

Defending, Stuart Baker said: "He is a young man who was bullied at school.

"He does realise the serious nature of what he has done and asked me to
apologise to the people he has caused problems to."

Judge Hodson said: "This girl must have been utterly terrified, not just in
terms of the suggestion of sexual violence which was implicit in all of this,
but also the physical violence.

"The effect on her was terrible and will stay with her."

Stapleton will have to serve three years and four months before a parole board
can consider him for release.

He will also have to register as a sex offender for the rest of his life and was
disqualified from ever working with children.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR... Limbrick Wood on the left, where the attack happened.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 11, 2007 Tuesday 2:47 AM BST

'EXTRAORDINARY RENDITIONS INCREASE TERROR ATTACK RISK'

BYLINE: Ben Padley, PA Political Staff

LENGTH: 522 words


The US policy of extraordinary rendition of terror suspects will increase the
risk of future terrorist attacks, the chairman of a cross-party group of MPs and
peers argued today.

Tory MP Andrew Tyrie, who heads the all-party parliamentary group on
extraordinary rendition, said that the battle against extremism could only be
won ``from the moral high ground''.

He said the US had to end the policy of ``kidnapping'' people and taking them to
places where they could be tortured. This was ``not the answer'' to the
terrorist threat faced by the West.

Washington could not continue to send people, including UK residents, to the
``legal and moral black hole of Guantanamo Bay'', he added.

Mr Tyrie, MP for Chichester, also called on Prime Minister Gordon Brown to
``find the courage'' to accept that extraordinary rendition was ``wrong''.

Mr Tyrie said: ``The devastating terrorist attacks six years ago to this day
shocked the world.

``But the battle against extremism can only be won from the moral high ground.

``US policies such as extraordinary rendition, whereby people have been
kidnapped around the world and taken to places where they may be maltreated or
tortured, are not the answer to the terrorist threat we continue to face.

``Yet it is through this practice that many people, including UK residents, have
been transported to the legal and moral black hole of Guantanamo Bay.

``The Government has repeatedly refused to condemn this practice, despite
continual requests from my parliamentary colleagues and me in debates,
parliamentary questions, and correspondence.

``It took four years for the last Prime Minister to condemn Guantanamo Bay.
Those in secret detention centres around the world cannot wait another four for
the current Prime Minister to find the courage to accept that extraordinary
rendition is wrong.''

``Kidnapping and torture corrode the very values that we are seeking to export
and make future attacks more likely, not less.''

He added: ``In the long run, Guantanamo Bay, extraordinary rendition and law
breaking will increase the risk of terrorist attacks.

``What we might gain in terms of intelligence, which is debatable, we will loose
in the battle for hearts and minds.''

In July MPs warned that the detention without trial by Washington of terrorist
suspects seized around the world had ``serious implications'' for Britain's
secret intelligence-sharing relationship with the Americans.

The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) accused the US of
ignoring restrictions placed on the use of intelligence about two British
residents detained at Guantanamo Bay after being seized in Africa.

While the ISC cleared MI5 and MI6 of any direct involvement in the US programme
of rendition, it said that the agencies had been ``slow'' to understand the way
the policy developed in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.

Mr Tyrie has in the past accused the Government of turning a blind eye to
extraordinary rendition flights through the UK amid calls in Parliament for a
full inquiry.

He said there was ``enormous'' anecdotal evidence that UK airports had been used
for the so-called ``torture flights''.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 11, 2007 Tuesday 2:47 AM BST

'EXTRAORDINARY RENDITIONS INCREASE TERROR ATTACK RISK'

BYLINE: Ben Padley, PA Political Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words


The US policy of extraordinary rendition of terror suspects will increase the
risk of future terrorist attacks, the chairman of a cross-party group of MPs and
peers argued today.

Tory MP Andrew Tyrie, who heads the all-party parliamentary group on
extraordinary rendition, said that the battle against extremism could only be
won ``from the moral high ground''.

He said the US had to end the policy of ``kidnapping'' people and taking them to
places where they could be tortured. This was ``not the answer'' to the
terrorist threat faced by the West.

Washington could not continue to send people, including UK residents, to the
``legal and moral black hole of Guantanamo Bay'', he added.

Mr Tyrie, MP for Chichester, also called on Prime Minister Gordon Brown to
``find the courage'' to accept that extraordinary rendition was ``wrong''.

Mr Tyrie said: ``The devastating terrorist attacks six years ago to this day
shocked the world.

``But the battle against extremism can only be won from the moral high ground.

``US policies such as extraordinary rendition, whereby people have been
kidnapped around the world and taken to places where they may be maltreated or
tortured, are not the answer to the terrorist threat we continue to face.

``Yet it is through this practice that many people, including UK residents, have
been transported to the legal and moral black hole of Guantanamo Bay.

``The Government has repeatedly refused to condemn this practice, despite
continual requests from my parliamentary colleagues and me in debates,
parliamentary questions, and correspondence.

``It took four years for the last Prime Minister to condemn Guantanamo Bay.
Those in secret detention centres around the world cannot wait another four for
the current Prime Minister to find the courage to accept that extraordinary
rendition is wrong.''

``Kidnapping and torture corrode the very values that we are seeking to export
and make future attacks more likely, not less.''

He added: ``In the long run, Guantanamo Bay, extraordinary rendition and law
breaking will increase the risk of terrorist attacks.

``What we might gain in terms of intelligence, which is debatable, we will loose
in the battle for hearts and minds.''

In July MPs warned that the detention without trial by Washington of terrorist
suspects seized around the world had ``serious implications'' for Britain's
secret intelligence-sharing relationship with the Americans.

The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) accused the US of
ignoring restrictions placed on the use of intelligence about two British
residents detained at Guantanamo Bay after being seized in Africa.

While the ISC cleared MI5 and MI6 of any direct involvement in the US programme
of rendition, it said that the agencies had been ``slow'' to understand the way
the policy developed in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.

Mr Tyrie has in the past accused the Government of turning a blind eye to
extraordinary rendition flights through the UK amid calls in Parliament for a
full inquiry.

He said there was ``enormous'' anecdotal evidence that UK airports had been used
for the so-called ``torture flights''.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          September 11, 2007, Tuesday
                               News Extra Edition

Council unveils terror attack response plan

BYLINE: Phillip Nifield South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 416 words


A new evacuation plan to deal with major incidents such as serious fires or a
terrorist attack has been unveiled.

The Evac Cardiff blueprint aims to ensure the city remains safer for residents,
workers and visitors in the event of a disaster.

Information packs are being sent to every business in the city centre and
residents will next month receive details of the plans through the Capital Times
newspaper.

The blueprint sets out four zones - red, blue, green and white - which could
each be evacuated in the case of a serious incident.

The red zone covers Cathays Park and as far south as Queen Street. The blue zone
covers the Millennium Stadium and Cardiff Central Station. The green zone covers
the main shopping area, bounded by St Mary Street and Queen Street, while the
white zone covers Cardiff Castle, Bute Park and Coopers Field.

The new guidance tells companies that during an incident managers should:

Listen to messages from police and not panic.

Consider the impact of the incident on their organisation and put in place their
own emergency plans.

Act on the advice of police.

Managers are warned not to place themselves or their staff at risk and that they
should not return to their premises until police tell them it is safe to return
to the evacuated area.

Chief Superintendent Josh Jones, head of Cardiff police, said: "We already have
tried and tested plans for dealing with major incidents. What this does is allow
businesses to work with us, the council and other partners in the event of a
major incident.

"It ensures that we are all speaking the same language and understand what we
are doing and why we are doing it. It's about having people in shops and offices
work with us in the event of a major incident.

"If, for instance, we are talking about terrorist incidents we need to make sure
we are moving people into safe areas. That might involve searching an area
before we send people in.

"This is all about making Cardiff safer for visitors, people who shop, live and
work in the city centre."

Cardiff's emergency planning officer Gavin Macho said: "This plan has been drawn
up as a result of many agencies and organisations, including the emergency
services, working together closely.

"The city centre has been split into four zones and 32 sectors with the aim of
ensuring that businesses in one area can continue working in the event of an
incident in another zone or sector. This plan is intended to help both
businesses and individuals and give them easily understood information."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Germany says Jihad Union claims responsibility for foiled terror attacks

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

["Ministry - Jihad Union Claims Responsibility for Foiled Attacks" - ddp
headline]

The Islamic Jihad Union has claimed responsibility for the foiled terror attacks
in Germany. The security authorities regard an announcement by the terror group
on the Internet as genuine, the Federal Interior Ministry reported in Berlin on
Tuesday [ 11 September] evening. The attacks planned for the end of 2007 were
supposed to be directed against the US air base at Ramstein as well as US and
Uzbek consular facilities in Germany. The announcement mentions the airbase of
Termez in Uzbekistan, which is used by the German Bundeswehr [German Armed
Forces], the ministry statement said. The attacks of the Jihad Union were aimed
at pressing Germany to close the air base.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1741 gmt 11 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday

Algerian authorities arrest two suspects in Dellys terror attack paper

LENGTH: 446 words


Text of report by Madjid T. headlined "Dellys attack: Arrest of two suspects in
Reghaia town centre", published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 12
September

Two elements providing support to the terrorist groups, and suspected of having
taken part in the Dellys attack which killed 35 and wounded 46, were arrested
the day before yesterday [ 10 September] in Reghaia. This dramatic operation
took place in downtown in the small square. According to eyewitnesses, several
unmarked vehicles belonging to special police units, which had come from
Algiers, burst into downtown and surrounded a Daewoo vehicle, signalling to the
driver to stop.

Still according to witnesses, the driver and another person seated close to him,
both of them between the ages of 25 and 40, certainly made a move in an attempt
to flee but other plainclothes policemen, weapons in hand, surrounded them. They
were hustled into a police vehicle after having exchanged some words with
policemen. The scene unfolded in front of numerous citizens, some of whom stated
that another Clio vehicle had been able to escape from under the gaze of police.

Moreover, according to our reports, the two people are still being questioned by
the security agencies and there is even talk that they are very close to the
terrorist groups of the ex-Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now
known as Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM]. Moreover, a
large-scale search operation was begun yesterday [ 11 September] by the People's
National Army [ANP] in several spots in the province of Boumerdes, in particular
in the region extending from Tidjellabine to Keddara and running through Corso.

According to security sources, the operation was launched following intelligence
telling of the presence of a terrorist group in the region. It began at about
0300 hours and initially targeted the communities of Nchitt, 4 km south of
Boudouaou, where a major terrorist group from the El-Arkam katibat [brigade] had
been spotted, before extending to Kedddara and other municipalities located west
of Boumerdes. As of press time, hundreds of elements from the security forces
wee still on the scene and were in the process of going over the region with a
fine-toothed comb.

During the day yesterday, elements from the combined forces cross-crossed the
communities of Khemis el-Khechna, Reghaia, Boudouaou el-Bahri, Corso,
Tidjellabine, and Budouaou, while highway axes were also put under tight
surveillance. Moreover, it has been learned that a terrorist surrendered to the
security forces in Khemis El-Khechna slightly more than four days ago.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 12 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday

Algerian editorial views lessons of 9/11 terror attacks six years on

LENGTH: 542 words


Text of editorial by Amine Lotfi headlined "The lesson of September", published
by Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 12 September

On 11 September 2001, America was struck by an awful attack, the work of the
sinister terrorist nebula Al-Qa'idah, whose supreme leader, Usamah Bin-Ladin,
was thus biting the hand that had fed him. Six years later, this individual is
again making news by making overt threats against the United States but also
against the entire planet. Which proves that the terrorist international's
number one man is still running and is scarcely worried about being neutralized.
So the question arises of knowing how the United States, which has conducted two
heavy conflicts against Afghanistan and Iraq and, to do so, put colossal
resources to use, has not been able to nab Usamah Bin-Ladin. Are we to believe
that he who is capable of the most is capable of the least?

In fact, not only has Bin-Ladin not been apprehended, but, quite to the
contrary, his terrorist organization has been able to spread following the
bloody 11 September 2001 attacks into Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the
Maghreb. This not very reassuring expansion leads us to note that the
commitments that were hammered away at by President George W. Bush to wage total
war on Al-Qa'idah have not had the expected results, to such an extent that the
finding of failure is emerging at the margins. This is giving room to the
terrorist hydra, which is thus tending to extend its tentacles onto other
targets.

It clearly appears here that the war on terrorism is not the exclusive province
of President Bush and America but that it has become a responsibility for all
states targeted by the phenomenon. It is obvious that few countries have
resources comparable to those that the United States has. Is the collaboration
total on this strategic front? One is allowed to wonder as much given the
ability to cause harm that Al-Qa'idah is demonstrating without the United States
having managed, as it had pledged to through the voice of President Bush, to
reduce the terrorist organization to nothing.

Can America, which has the technological means to do surveillance and listen to
the whole world in real time, suggest that its satellites are reduced into
impotence the minute it's about Bin-Ladin and his terrorist organization? In
this there is enough to get lost in conjectures and note that there is a flaw in
the exchange of information that helps the states that are engaged in the fight
against terrorism to ensure their safety. And this is a sovereignty prerogative
that cannot be delegated to anyone and even less as part of the setting up of
military bases the goal of which is reportedly to help fight terrorism.

This is quite an odd conception of cooperation in the area of fighting
terrorism, one that claims to deprive independent countries of their sovereignty
the minute they consent to foreign military bases being set up. This is not what
the world was expecting following the 11 September 2001 attacks, which produced
a wave of unequalled solidarity with the United States. It is the spirit and the
letter of that wave that American officials should have their hearts set on not
shattering.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 12 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2007, Wednesday

AS AMERICA MOURNS, THE FANATICS GLOAT;
9/11 ATTACK VICTIMS REMEMBERED TERROR CHIEF BIN LADEN PRAISES HIS '19 CHAMPIONS'

BYLINE: By Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words


TERROR mastermind Osama bin Laden marked the sixth anniversary of the 9/11
atrocities by gloating over them.

A newly released video tape shows bin Laden and Waleed al-Shehri, who was on
American Airlines Flight 11, which crashed into the World Trade Centre's North
Tower.

Shehri is seen delivering his last testament dressed in white robes and turban,
denouncing his enemies as cowards. He vows: "We shall come at you from your
front, back, right and left and from above and below you." Bin Laden praises him
at the start of the tape saying: "This talk of mine consists of some reflections
on the will of a young man who personally penetrated the most extreme degrees of
danger and is a rarity among men - one of the 19 champions.

"Shehri is one of these magnificent men whom the verses of the revelation
affected in the same way they affected the first Muslims and picked them up and
took him from the narrow worries of this world to the spaciousness of the
hereafter, purifying his soul, firming up his heart and enlightening his sight
and perception."

The video, with English subtitles, was posted on al-Qaeda-linked websites.

Last week, Saudi-born bin Laden issued his first video message for nearly three
years to say that the US must embrace Islam to avert war.

Almost 3000 people, including 67 Britons, died in the attacks when hijacked
airliners were crashed into the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

A fourth plane crashed into a field in Pennsylvania.

In his own testament, Shehri quotes the Muslim holy book, the Koran, which he
says commands Muslims to fight Christians and Jews.

"The difference between us and you - oh cowards - is that you fear death and are
frightened by it, whereas we hope for it and seek it in God's path."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MENACING: Shehri in the terror message

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday

How terror attack made Terry waite

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 195 words


Hostage negotiator Terry Waite waited six years to give a speech to a
Lincolnshire audience.

Mr Waite (68) spoke to 130 delegates at Lawress Hall, Riseholme, during
Lincolnshire County Council's annual emergency planning conference.

He had been due to give the talk in 2001, but was delayed after the terror
attack on the twin towers.

The topic of the conference, held yesterday, was restoration and recovery
following major disasters.

Mr Waite, who was kept hostage in Beirut for almost five years from 1987 to
1991, spoke on the subject from a psychological viewpoint.

He stressed that wherever possible victims of disasters should be given
practical and emotional support.

But he added that the emergency services should also be given assistance,
debriefings and regular counselling to help them cope with the stress involved
in dealing with disasters.

"I began my speech by saying that I was here on this very date, six years ago,
as the Twin Towers in America were attacked," Mr Waite told the Echo. "I was
just about to get up and speak when someone said there had been a terrorist
attack and we went to a basement and watched it all unravel before our eyes on
television."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

Germany's Schaeuble warns foiled terror attacks comparable to 9/11

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

["Schaeuble - Foiled Terror Attacks Were of the Size of the 11 September
Attacks" - ddp headline]

Berlin (ddp) - According to the assessment by Federal Interior Minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble (CDU [Christian Democratic Union]), the terror attacks that were
foiled in Germany last week [ 3-7 September] could have been comparable in size
to the attacks of 11 September 2001. The attacks planned by the three arrested
terror suspects "could have even reached a similar size," Schaeuble said in
Berlin on Thursday [ 13 September].

Islamist activists have created a global movement, "able to indoctrinate young
people right in our cities and communities," the CDU politician warned at an
event of Konrad Adenauer Foundation. "People who actually live right next to us"
are radicalized to the point of "pressing the button." The democratic system is
"challenged ideologically" and "forced to prove itself," Schaeuble continued.

The interior minister once again advocated the quick introduction of covert
online searches of private computers. "The openness of cyberspace is becoming a
danger for the open society," Schaeuble stressed. The Internet, where extremists
join forces "largely unhindered and uncontrolled," has become "a sort of
universal platform of the holy war against the Western world," he stated.

According to Schaeuble, online searches are necessary also in the struggle
against rightwing and leftwing extremism. The number of activities of rightwing
radicals and neo-Nazis as well as relevant crimes in Germany is growing.
Regrettably, xenophobic views and attacks are increasingly becoming part of our
social reality," the minister warned.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1258 gmt 13 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     September 14, 2007 Friday 07:26 AM GMT

Musharraf vows to fight terror after suicide attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 480 words


Pakistan vowed to step up its fight against terrorism today after a suicide
attacker detonated an explosive-laden vehicle inside a high-security military
base, killing 16 soldiers from an elite counter-terrorism task force.

Authorities did not speculate on who was behind the attack, but Islamic
militants will be suspected.

Mostly Muslim Pakistan is a key ally of the United States in its campaign
against terrorism, and has seen scores of attacks since September 11, 2001, when
President Gen. Pervez Musharraf threw his support behind Washington. Hundreds of
suspected militants have been killed or detained.

Twenty-nine soldiers were also wounded in the attack late yesterday at Ghazi
Tarbela base - about 60 miles south of the capital, Islamabad - the headquarters
of the quick-reaction counter-terrorism commandos.

Musharraf ordered a thorough investigation into how the bomber penetrated
security at the facility and rammed his vehicle into a canteen where soldiers
were eating, according to a statement on the state-run Associated Press of
Pakistan news agency.

"The government will fight the menace of terrorism, extremism and militancy in
all its forms and manifestations," Musharraf said.

The attack against Pakistani soldiers came the day visiting US Deputy Secretary
of State John Negroponte met with Musharraf in Islamabad, and praised his role
in the fight on terror.

The murdered soldiers belonged to the army's Karar commando group, which has
participated in operations against militants in various parts of the country,
according to officials.

Army spokesman Maj. Gen. Waheed Arshad, who had suggested the blast may have
been accidentally triggered by a gas canister, confirmed a suicide attacker was
suspected.

He said investigations were continuing, but declined further comment.

The Karar force had taken part in the army's July raid against pro-Taliban
militants in Islamabad's Red Mosque, which left more than 100 dead and triggered
a spate of reprisal attacks against security forces, Geo TV network reported.

Pakistan is under growing US pressure to crack down on Taliban and al-Qaida in
its border regions. It reported on Wednesday it killed about 40 militants in the
North Waziristan tribal region.

In fighting yesterday near Razmak, a town in South Waziristan, army forces
repelled repeated militant attacks, and tribesmen informed officials up to 50
rebels died in counter-strikes. Two soldiers were killed and eight wounded,
Arshad said.

Fighting between Islamic militants and security forces has been raging across
north-west Pakistan since the army assaulted the Red Mosque. Most of the combat
has been in the rugged mountains along the Afghan border, where the US fears
al-Qaida is regrouping.

The army says it has deployed 90,000 troops in the border region in an attempt
to curtail militancy and stop guerrillas from crossing into Afghanistan to
attack Nato forces.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                               September 15, 2007

Bottle attack terror

LENGTH: 367 words


POLICE were today hunting a brutal attacker after he slashed a disabled woman's
face with a bottle.

The terrifying assault - which left the victim with sickening facial wounds -
happened after she discovered an intruder at her Blackpool home.

Police say the woman - who is in her mid-50s - returned to her house on Ashton
Road, Revoe, at around 3.30pm on Wednesday when she noticed a man in her back
yard.

She went outside to confront the intruder who smashed the base off a glass
bottle and lunged at her face, cutting her with the makeshift weapon.

Det Con Dave Moss of Blackpool CID said: "This man is very dangerous.

"He has thrust the bottle into her face in an attempt to inflict serious
injuries. It was an horrific attack which could have ended up a lot worse than
it has.

"In any event he has caused lacerations to the face which she needed to go to
hospital for treatment on.

"At the moment we've no idea what he was doing in the back yard. There doesn't
appear to be any sign of him trying to gain access to the property.

"Why he has decided to attack rather than just flee when he was confronted we
don't know."

Detectives have since conducted door-to-door inquiries in the area surrounding
the home off Central Drive and are looking into the possibility of recovering
CCTV footage of the area.

Police today said the vulnerable victim was disabled and suffered from a number
of medical ailments. She was left very shaken by the horrific ordeal and police
are continuing to hunt the offender.

They want to speak to any witnesses who may have seen something suspicious in
the Ashton Road or Central Drive area between 3.30pm or 4pm.

Officers have issued a description of the attacker in the hope it may jog
people's memories or somebody may recognise the man.

He is described as white, around 5ft 6in tall and wearing a light coloured
T-shirt and dark blue jeans.

He also had on distinctive multi-coloured gloves and a black ski mask or
balaclava.

Det Con Moss added: "We're very keen to trace this individual as this was a very
nasty attack and we would appreciate any help from members of the public."

Anyone with information can contact Blackpool Police on (01253) 293933 or via
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday

German interior minister warns of nuclear terrorist attack

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 15 September

Frankfurt / Main: Federal Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (CDU [Christian
Democratic Union]) warns of a potential terrorist attack with nuclear weapons.
This was "the greatest concern of all security forces," Schaeuble told the
Sunday paper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung. Meanwhile, many experts
were convinced that it was not a matter of whether but when such an attack would
be committed, he added.

Schaeuble admitted that the security authorities did not know all possible
dangers of terrorist attacks. "Even today, we do not have a complete overview,"
the CDU politician said. Nevertheless, he called on the people to stay calm. "It
does not make sense to spoil the time we have left by talking ourselves into a
sort of end-of-the-world mood," the minister said.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1631 gmt 15 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 17, 2007 Monday

German minister ready to order to shoot down plane hijacked for terror attacks

LENGTH: 189 words


Excerpt from report by German news agency ddp

Munich, Berlin - The statement of Defence Minister Jung that he would give order
to shoot down a passenger plane hijacked for a terrorist attack even in the
absence of a legal provision for such an event, has caused fierce opposition.
SPD [Social Democratic Party of Germany], FDP [Free Democratic Party of
Germany], Greens, and the Left today accused the minister of disregarding a
Federal Constitutional Court ruling, thus acting unlawfully if he acted that
way.

Jung had told the newsmagazine Focus that in the emergency of a plane hijacked
by terrorists he would need to have recourse to a method that goes above the
law. "If there was no other way, I would give the order to shoot it down to
protect our people," Jung stated. The minister admitted that the Federal
Constitutional Court had ruled that a hijacked plane could be shot down
providing there were only terrorists and no innocent people on board. "But if
there is a common danger or the democratic order is in danger, other rules
apply, Jung said.

[passage omitted]

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1143 gmt 16 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 17, 2007 Monday

Pakistan's Sindh province on alert against terrorist attacks - paper

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by Naveed Siddiqui headlined "Centre alerts Sindh to possible
terrorist strikes" published by Pakistan newspaper Daily Times website on 17
September

Islamabad: The federal government on Sunday [16 September] alerted the Sindh
government that terrorists might target government installations, politicians
and foreigners in revenge for the Waziristan and Lal Masjid [Red Mosque]
operations and to disrupt the forthcoming general elections in Sindh, Daily
Times has learnt.

Potential terror groups: Sources said the Interior Ministry had directed the
Sindh Home Department to acquire information about all recent terrorist acts and
events of violence from federal and provincial government agencies to identify
crime patterns and potential terrorist groups.

"Operation silence" revenge: Intelligence reports and crime indicators revealed
a disturbing situation in Karachi after the Lal Masjid/Jamia Hafsa [seminary]
operation, federal government told Sindh authorities.

Enhanced security: Interior Ministry sources said they would provide enhanced
security to diplomats, foreigners, particularly Chinese citizens, senior
government and police officials.

The Home Department has decided to establish a joint control room at Karachi
Airport to be manned with various security agencies, they said.

The federal government has also asked the Sindh government to approach the
National Police Bureau and ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] Headquarters in
Islamabad, to arm the provincial police with sophisticated weapons, they added.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 17 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 17, 2007 Monday

German Interior Ministry denies having clues of terrorist nuclear attack plans

LENGTH: 131 words


Excerpt from report by German news agency ddp

["No Indication of Attack Plans Involving Nuclear Material" - ddp headline]

Berlin - The Federal Interior Ministry has, until now, "not a single specific
indication" of terrorists possessing nuclear material, ministry spokesman Stefan
Kaller said in Berlin on Monday [ 17 September]. At the same time, Kaller
rejected the impression that Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (Christian Democratic
Union) had warned of an attack involving nuclear weapons on the weekend.
Schaeuble had "not described a nuclear attack." He had rather pointed out that
terror organizations openly propagated the idea of coming into possession of
"unconventional substances" to prepare attacks.

[passage omitted]

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1110 gmt 17 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2007, Monday

SECRET HERO;
EXCLUSIVE REVEALED: AIRPORT SCOT'S AMAZING COURAGE MODEST STEPHEN CLARKSON
STOPPED GLASGOW AIRPORT BOMBER KAFEEL AHMED, THEN LET OTHERS TAKE THE LIMELIGHT
IN THE WAKE OF THE TERROR ATTACK. TODAY, HE FINALLY TELLS HIS INCREDIBLE STORY

BYLINE: By Janice Burns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words


THE unsung hero of the Glasgow Airport terror attack has broken his 10-week
silence - and revealed that he was the man who "mowed down" burning bomber
Kafeel Ahmed.

Modest bystander Stephen Clarkson has stayed out of the headlines since the
drama of June 30.

But yesterday, in his first full interview, he told the Record how he floored
Ahmed with a forearm smash as the crazed terrorist came at him outside Terminal
One.

Stephen,41, said: "The burned man started coming towards me quite fast and I
thought, 'I've got to stop him.'

"I focused myself on him and stared at him. I took two steps towards him and he
never flinched so I just ran at him and basically mowed him down.

"I knocked him to the ground using my elbow and forearm and struck his chest. I
could see his face as he was going down and the police were immediately on top
of him.

"I just went on automatic. I knew I had to do it. My gut instinct was that he
was a terrorist and had to be stopped."

Police had already tried to subdue Ahmed by firing CS spray into his eyes.

But some of the spray hit Stephen and he was wiping his eyes when the bomber
came towards him.

He said: "The CS gas was the reason I ended up having to take him down. It
disabled me and I had to clear my eyes and by that time he was coming at me."

Stephen, of Penilee, Glasgow, went to the airport on June 30 to pick up his
brother, sister-in-law and niece, who were returning from a fortnight in
Benidorm.

But as he was heading for the arrivals hall, everyone else was running out.
Terrorists had just crashed a Jeep Cherokee loaded with gas canisters into the
main entrance of Terminal One.

Stephen said: "I saw the staff pushing people back but I decided to keep going
and find my family. Then I realised I was the only person in the building.

"I saw smoke coming through the door and thought it was a fire, then I walked
outside and saw a man just lying there burning.

"The flames were quite high and all I could see was the shape of his body.

"There was not a movement or a sound out of him. Someone in the background was
shouting, 'Burn you b******, burn'."

Stephen watched as a plain-clothes policeman put out the flames on the front of
Ahmed's body with a fire extinguisher.

He said: "The guy had been on fire for two or three minutes, but as soon as the
flames on his front were out he just got up. It was like a horror movie, like
something out of the Terminator.

"His back was still burning when he started walking calmly towards the Jeep, as
if he had just woken out of a sleep.

"He never made a sound as he tried to open the boot. He was pulling at it but it
wouldn't open.

"The gentleman with the extinguisher hosed him down at the back."

Two cops went after Ahmed but he went berserk and lashed out at them.

Stephen said: "He turned and swung his arms to hit the officers but they stood
back.

"He ran towards them, kicking out at them and trying to throw punches.

"They sprayed CS gas in his face. I was so close I got some of the gas in my
eyes.

"My eyes were burning and I pulled my T-shirt up to wipe them."

Ahmed then tried to go for Stephen, but the self-employed groundsman was more
than a match for him.

Police grabbed the terrorist after Stephen put him down.

An officer then told Stephen to stand back from the Jeep.

He said: "I felt a bit miffed at being told to get back but the police were
right. It burst into flames as I walked away.

"I still get flashbacks but no nightmares.

I am coping with it fine. My life hasn't stopped just because a couple of
lunatics want to go and blow up Glasgow Airport. I just thank God they were
amateurs."

Ahmed, who had suffered 90 per cent burns, died in hospital last month.

A second man, Bilal Abdulla, was arrested at the scene and later charged with
conspiracy to cause explosions.

While others basked in the limelight after the attack, down-to-earth Stephen
went back to work next day.

He didn't want to speak to the Press - he was still grieving for long-term
partner Gillian Campbell, who died of cancer on May 7 aged just 30.

But Stephen did attend a reception for the heroes of the attack, where he was
honoured by First Minister Alex Salmond.

And yesterday, after his family urged him to speak out, he finally agreed to
give an interview.

Stephen said: "I don't like the limelight and I still can't talk about Gillian,
but I suppose my story has to be told.

"After I do this, I just want to get on with my life and put it behind me.

"I'm no hero. I only did what thousands of Scots would have done when hundreds
of lives were at risk.

"I hope other would-be terrorists get the message that Scotland will not stand
for terrorism."

'I still get flashbacks but no nightmares'

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE QUIET MAN: Stephen has been modest about taking credit for tackling
Ahmed in the Glasgow terror attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

SAfrican think tank warn of likely terrorist attacks during 2010 World Cup

LENGTH: 333 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Business Day on 19 September

[Report by Wilson Johwa: "World Cup May Make SA a Terrorist Target"]

A MULTIPLICITY of tourist sites and the forthcoming 2010 Soccer World Cup make
southern Africa vulnerable to terrorist attacks, warns the Institute for
Security Studies (ISS).

While attention has been on the Horn of Africa and the Maghreb, where some of
the continent's most prominent terrorist attacks have taken place, southern
African states should be concerned.

That is the opinion of the ISS in a paper that was the basis for discussion of
the United Nations (UN) global counterterrorism strategy. The paper was written
jointly with the US-based Centre on Global Counter-Terrorism Cooperation.

"The possibility for international terrorism is always there and we need to
start adopting a proactive approach," Anneli Botha, a senior researcher at the
ISS , said at a meeting on the UN's counterterrorism plan for the region.

Kurt Shillinger, head of the Security and Terrorism in Africa project at the
South African Institute of International Affairs, said: "2010 is an obvious
opportunity, but that would be true of any major sporting event."

He said the South African intelligence community had the capacity to monitor
movements and events in the country and the region.

"The question would be if they did get intelligence on something, how would they
act on it?"

Individuals in SA have been implicated in global terrorism. Khalfan Khamis
Mohamed, a Tanzanian living in Cape Town, was held after the 1998 US embassy
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania. Haroon Rashid Aswat, a British citizen who lived
in Johannesburg, was held and accused of telephoning suspects in the London
bombing of July 2005.

More recently, two South African cousins were named as international terror
suspects by the UN Security Council for allegedly having links with Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda and the deposed Taleban in Afghanistan.

Source: Business Day, Johannesburg, in English 19 Sep 07 p 4

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

Iran condemns Beirut terror attack

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

Tehran, Sept 19, IRNA

Iran-Condemnation-Blast-Beirut

Foreign Ministry Spokesman Mohammad Ali Hoseyni condemned Wednesday an explosion
in Beirut that killed the Lebanese Member of Parliament Antoine Ghanem and some
Lebanese nationals.

According to Foreign Ministry Media Department report, Hoseyni said, "This
terrorist act aimed to cause instability in Lebanon in the current sensitive
situation, when the initiative of Lebanon parliament speaker is taking shape."

He added, "Such an event comes from Lebanon's known enemies' plots, and upon the
past background of such suspicious moves in the sensitive times of Lebanon, it
comes from ominous plots of the Zionist regime, which has always been
threatening Lebanese sovereignty, independence, security and people's
solidarity."

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 1940 gmt 19 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

German defence minister accepts "responsibility" against terror attacks

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

["Jung Stresses his 'Political Responsibility' Against Terror Attacks" - ddp
headline]

Berlin - Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung (CDU) [Christian Democratic Union]
stands by his controversial announcement to have hijacked civilian aircraft shot
down, if necessary, justifying it as an emergency above the law. "This state is
not defenceless," Jung said on Wednesday [ 19 September] in the Bundestag in
Berlin. The state must be able to react also against the "most extreme forms of
terrorist attacks." Jung appealed to the Bundestag to jointly come to a
constitutional clarification: "We have the responsibility to avert harm against
the German people."

The CDU politician reminded [of the fact that] it had been the previous
red-green government that wanted a simple legal regulation with the air safety
law. The Federal Constitutional Court had contradicted it with regard to
civilian aircraft and at the same time had made it clear that, in its view,
shooting down unmanned aircraft or planes occupied only by terrorists was
possible. Yet the constitutional judges had also said that they did not want to
comment on the question of defending against attacks that are targeted to
removing the polity.

Jung stressed that today one also must imagine terror attacks aimed at this very
goal. In this case, soldiers must be able to rely [on the fact] that an order
was issued taking into account the factual, ethical and constitutional aspects.
It must not be that jet pilots are left alone in such a difficult situation. For
this reason he, Jung, had wanted to make clear who has the "political
responsibility."

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1431 gmt 19 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 20, 2007

United Nations: Secretary-General Shocked By Brutal Assassination In Beirut,
Condemns Terrorist Attack In Strongest Terms

LENGTH: 222 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 20, 2007-United Nations: Secretary-General Shocked By
Brutal Assassination In Beirut, Condemns Terrorist Attack In Strongest Terms
©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General is shocked by the brutal assassination of Member of
Parliament Antoine Ghanem and at least eight other civilians in Beirut today. He
condemns in the strongest terms this terrorist attack and expresses his sincere
condolences to the bereaved families of those killed.

Such acts of terrorism aim at undermining Lebanon's stability and are
unacceptable. Lebanon has suffered far too many such attempts. The
Secretary-General urges all Lebanese to exercise utmost calm and restraint at
this very critical time and to allow judicial procedures to take their course.

The Secretary-General calls, now more than ever, for continued dialogue among
all Lebanese. He reaffirms the United Nations unswerving commitment to Lebanon's
stability, sovereignty and political independence.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

Steelworker tells of terror at sword attack

BYLINE: Jenny Brentnall - Crime reporter

SECTION: LATEST NEWS

LENGTH: 259 words


A STEELWORKER who was stabbed in the neck during a violent fracas outside a city
pub told of his terror in the moments before he was attacked.

Newport Crown Court heard how Mark Wheeler, 41, of Ringland, Newport was rushed
to hospital, rapidly losing blood, after he was stabbed with a three foot long
sword, puncturing part of his jugular vein, voice box and windpipe.

Frantz Germain, 25, of Cot Farm Circle, Newport, and his brother Kenode Germain,
23, of Ringland Centre, Newport, have pleaded not guilty to attempting to murder
Mr Wheeler.

They also deny alternative charges of causing grievous bodily harm with intent
and inflicting grievous bodily harm and possessing an offensive weapon, a sword.

The two Germains, Martin Douglas, 26, of Llanwern Road, Newport, Samandi Allen,
24, of Night Close, Newport and his brother Leroy Allen of Cot Farm Circle, all
pleaded not guilty to violent disorder.

It is alleged the fighting was triggered by an earlier confrontation involving
two of the defendants and Stanley Henshaw.

Describing his ordeal, Mr Wheeler said: "The smaller of the two men (Kenode)
came forward, slashing with his sword around my face.

"I was very frightened. I knew he meant to do me real damage."

Mr Wheeler backed away and, he said, bent down to pick up a golf club lying
nearby.

Then, he said there was a feeling like he had been punched in the throat.

But, Huw Wallace, defending Frantz Germain, and Robert Duval, defending Kenode
Germain, suggested Mr Wheeler's account was influenced by talking to other
people in the community.

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

Sellafield's plutonium store 'vulnerable to terrorist attack'

BYLINE: David Adam, Environment correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 460 words


Britain's stocks of plutonium are kept in "unacceptable" conditions and pose a
severe safety and security risk, experts warn today.

The Royal Society says ministers must urgently review the way more than 100
tonnes of the radioactive element, separated during the reprocessing of spent
nuclear fuel, is held at the Sellafield complex in Cumbria. The society,
Britain's premier scientific academy, says a previous warning to the government
has been ignored, and that the rise of international terrorism means the UK must
now find a way to use or dispose of the material.

Plutonium is highly toxic and is the primary component of most nuclear bombs. In
a report published today, the society says a well-informed terrorist group could
turn a small amount of the stockpiled material into a crude atomic weapon.

Professor Geoffrey Boulton, chair of the group that wrote the report, said: "The
status quo of continuing to stockpile separated plutonium without any long-term
strategy for its use or disposal is not an acceptable option. The Royal Society
initially raised concerns about the security risks nine years ago, and we have
not seen any progress. The stockpile has grown while international nuclear
proliferation and terrorist threats have increased."

The amount of plutonium stored at Sellafield has nearly doubled in the last
decade to 103 tonnes. A quarter has been separated for foreign countries and
companies. Prof Boulton said: "Just over 6kg of plutonium was used in the bomb
which devastated Nagasaki, and the UK has many thousands of times that amount.
We must ensure this very dangerous material does not fall into the wrong hands."

The society does not raise specific concerns about the security or safety regime
at the Sellafield store. But it says the consequences of a security breach or
accidental dispersal of the material are so severe that changes must be made.

It says the best option is to convert the plutonium into mixed oxide (MOX) fuel
pellets. "If the government builds a new generation of nuclear power stations,
the entire stockpile could be burnt as MOX fuel in these new reactors," the
report says.

If there are no new nuclear power stations built, then some of the MOX pellets
could be burnt by modifying the Sizewell B nuclear reactor in Suffolk.

Separate concerns were raised yesterday about the MoD atomic weapons factory at
Burghfield, Berkshire. Documents released to New Scientist magazine under
freedom of information laws revealed up to 1,000 safety defects had been
identified by the government's nuclear watchdog.

A spokeswoman for the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform
said the government was confident that the UK's plutonium stocks were fully
protected against terrorist attack.

guardian.co.uk/nuclear >=

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 21, 2007

United Nations: Security Council, in Presidential statement, Condemns
yesterday's terrorist attack in Beirut, demands immediate end to violence
against Lebanese representatives

LENGTH: 482 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 21, 2007-United Nations: Security Council, in
Presidential statement, Condemns yesterday's terrorist attack in Beirut, demands
immediate end to violence against Lebanese representatives ©1994-2007 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Demanding an immediate end to intimidation and violence against the
representatives of the Lebanese people, the Security Council this afternoon
strongly condemned yesterday's terrorist attack in Beirut, which killed Member
of Parliament Antoine Ghanem and at least six other persons.

According to a statement read out by this month's Council President,
Jean-Maurice Ripert of France, the Council also reiterated its call for a free
and fair presidential election to be held according to the timetable and norms
of the Lebanese Constitution without any foreign interference.

The meeting began at 2:10 p.m. and ended at 2:14 p.m.

The full text of S/PRST/2007/34 reads as follows:

"The Security Council strongly condemns the terrorist attack in Beirut on 19
September 2007 which killed at least seven persons, including Member of
Parliament Antoine Ghanem. The Security Council expresses its deepest sympathy
and condolences to the families of the victims and to the people and Government
of Lebanon.

"The Security Council commends the determination and commitment of the
Government of Lebanon to bring to justice the perpetrators, organizers and
sponsors of this and other assassinations and underlines its determination to
support the Government of Lebanon in its efforts to this end.

"The Security Council reiterates its condemnation of all targeted assassinations
of Lebanese leaders, including since November 2004, and demands an immediate end
of the use of intimidation and violence against the representatives of the
Lebanese people and institutions. On the eve of the crucial period of the
presidential election, it stresses that any attempt to destabilize Lebanon,
including through political assassination or other terrorist acts, should not
impede or subvert the constitutional process in Lebanon.

"The Security Council reiterates, in this context, its call for the holding of a
free and fair presidential election in conformity with Lebanese constitutional
norms and schedules and without any foreign interference, fully respecting the
sovereignty of Lebanon.

"The Security Council emphasizes the importance of the unity of all the Lebanese
people. It also reiterates its full support to all ongoing efforts in Lebanon to
combat terrorism, solidify democratic institutions through national dialogue,
and continue to extend the authority of the Lebanese Government throughout its
territory."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                     September 21, 2007 Friday 11:02 AM BST

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HOUSE RETURNED TO OWNER

BYLINE: Lucy Christie, Scottish Press Association

LENGTH: 346 words


The house at the centre of the police probe into the alleged Glasgow Airport
terror attack has been handed back to its owner after months of forensic work,
it was confirmed today.

Police investigating the June 30 incident have stripped No 6 Neuk Crescent in
Houston, Renfrewshire, bare.

The semi-detached property was the home of Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed, the
two men linked to the incident.

The agency which let the house on behalf of the woman owner said the keys were
handed back by police two days ago.

Carpets have been removed, doors taken off their hinges and appliances covered
in a thick dust used for taking fingerprints.

Daniel Gardiner, director of Let-It, said the property will need major
renovation work before it can be let out again or sold.

He said: ``We're obtaining quotes for the work that needs done and want to get
it done as quickly as possible.

``The cost of putting it right will be substantial.''

Most of the contents of the property have been removed and stored in the
detached garage to the right of the house.

Several doors have been propped up against one wall.

There are small yellow stickers on the panes of glass that mark the
fingerprints, Mr Gardiner said.

A washing machine and fridge have been left in the centre of the room.

Both have been covered inside and out by dust used by the forensic
investigators.

Chairs, tables and a bedstead have also been left in the garage.

Inside the house the windows have been covered up with sheets, and junk mail
addressed to ``Ms D Abdulla'' has been piling up at the front door.

Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 27, faces charges of conspiring to cause explosions
at the airport.

Indian engineer Kafeel Ahmed, also 27, died in hospital following the incident.

Mr Gardiner said he did not expect problems when it came to re-letting or
selling on the property.

He said: ``I think there's as many people that will be attracted by it as there
will be detracted by it.

``In other cases they would knock down the house but there's always the
curiosity.

``Everyone will be talking about it for years and some people like that.''

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: SNR


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 21, 2007 Friday 11:01 AM BST

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HOUSE RETURNED TO OWNER

BYLINE: Lucy Christie, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


The house at the centre of the police probe into the alleged Glasgow Airport
terror attack has been handed back to its owner after months of forensic work,
it was confirmed today.

Police investigating the June 30 incident have stripped No 6 Neuk Crescent in
Houston, Renfrewshire, bare.

The semi-detached property was the home of Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed, the
two men linked to the incident.

The agency which let the house on behalf of the woman owner said the keys were
handed back by police two days ago.

Carpets have been removed, doors taken off their hinges and appliances covered
in a thick dust used for taking fingerprints.

Daniel Gardiner, director of Let-It, said the property will need major
renovation work before it can be let out again or sold.

He said: ``We're obtaining quotes for the work that needs done and want to get
it done as quickly as possible.

``The cost of putting it right will be substantial.''

Most of the contents of the property have been removed and stored in the
detached garage to the right of the house.

Several doors have been propped up against one wall.

There are small yellow stickers on the panes of glass that mark the
fingerprints, Mr Gardiner said.

A washing machine and fridge have been left in the centre of the room.

Both have been covered inside and out by dust used by the forensic
investigators.

Chairs, tables and a bedstead have also been left in the garage.

Inside the house the windows have been covered up with sheets, and junk mail
addressed to ``Ms D Abdulla'' has been piling up at the front door.

Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 27, faces charges of conspiring to cause explosions
at the airport.

Indian engineer Kafeel Ahmed, also 27, died in hospital following the incident.

Mr Gardiner said he did not expect problems when it came to re-letting or
selling on the property.

He said: ``I think there's as many people that will be attracted by it as there
will be detracted by it.

``In other cases they would knock down the house but there's always the
curiosity.

``Everyone will be talking about it for years and some people like that.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 22, 2007, Saturday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 54 words


POLICE are hunting a sex attacker who assaulted a mother in her 20s as she
walked with her young children in Redditch.

She was with her one-year-old and three-year-old daughters near Hewell Road
swimming pool when the attacker struck. The man, described as white, in his 20s
and with fair spiky hair, fled when she screamed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 22, 2007, Saturday

AIRPORT BOMBERS' LAIR;
COPS HAND BACK KEYS THREE MONTHS AFTER THUGS' FIREBALL HORROR INSIDE THE HOUSE
WHERE TERRORISTS PLOTTED ATTACK

BYLINE: By Derek Alexander

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 321 words


THIS is the lair from which fireball terrorist Kafeel Ahmed plotted his attack
on Glasgow airport.

Police who seized the semi-detached home rented by the Indian engineer have only
now handed the keys back - three months after the June 30 attack.

The house at 6 Neuk Crescent in Houston, Renfrewshire, which Ahmed shared with
another man involved in the failed bomb plot, was gutted by investigators.

And when the doors were opened for the first time since the terror attack, what
was left was virtually a shell.

Investigators had removed many of its fittings, including doors and carpets.

Electrical equipment and kitchen appliances have been left thick with
fingerprint dust.

It's thought the cost of making the house fit to be lived in again will run into
several thousands of pounds.

Daniel Gardiner, director of agents Let-It, received the keys two days ago.

He said: "We're obtaining quotes for the work that needs done and want to get it
done as quickly as possible. The cost will be substantial."

Most of the house's furniture has been moved into the boarded-up garage.

The windows have been blacked out with sheets and yellow stickers, placed to
mark fingerprints, are stuck to the glass.

Junk mail addressed to a "Ms D Abdulla" is piled up behind the front door.

A washing machine and refrigerator have been left in the middle of the floor,
covered inside and out with fingerprint dust.

Several doors have also been propped up against a wall and chairs, tables and a
bedstead have been dumped in the garage.

Mr Gardiner said he did not expect problems when it came to re-letting or
selling the property despite its notoriety.

He said: "I think there's as many people that will be attracted by it as there
will be put off by it.

"Everyone will be talking about it for years and some people like that."

Ahmed died of 90 per cent burns in hospital five weeks after the attack at
Glasgow airport, in which he rammed his Jeep into the terminal.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIDGE The inside and outside of the fridge are still caked in forensic
teams' fingerprint dust
MAIL Letters addressed to a Ms D Abdulla have piled up while the door handles
also bear the marks of the investigators' fingerprint dust
DOOR
INFERNO: The burning Jeep and, right, Ahmed
CLEAN-UP: Letting agency boss Daniel Gardiner in the boarded-up garage
GARAGE Furniture from other parts of the house is stacked in the garage, which
is boarded up. Below, one of the bedrooms with its furniture taken apart and
piled into a corner ANDREW MILLIGAN/PA
BEDROOM
LOUNGE The grubby living room of the house with the carpet removed and the
furniture pushed into one corner
SHELL: The outside of the semi-detached house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 22, 2007

Revealed: inside the house where airport terror attack suspects lived;
Property stripped bare as part of police investigation

BYLINE: DAMIEN HENDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 492 words



HIGHLIGHT: MAJOR WORK: The Neuk Crescent home will need renovating.

GUTTED: Forensic teams have spent months examining furniture and other items
from the house that have been stored in this garage. Picture: Andrew Milligan/PA

LIVING AT HOUSE: Kafeel Ahmed, left, and Bilal Abdullah.

ATTACK: The Jeep ablaze at Glasgow Airport's main terminal.


THE house at the centre of a police probe into the alleged Glasgow Airport
terror attack has been handed back to its owner after months of forensic work,
it was confirmed yesterday.

Police investigating the June 30 incident have stripped bare No 6 Neuk Crescent
in Houston, Renfrewshire.

The semi-detached property was the home of Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed, the
two men linked to the incident.

The agency, which let the house on behalf of the female owner, said the keys
were handed back by police two days ago.

Carpets have been removed, doors taken off their hinges and appliances covered
in a dust used for taking fingerprints.

Daniel Gardiner, director of Let-It, said the property will need major
renovation work before it can be let out again or sold.

He said: "We're obtaining quotes for the work that needs done and want to get it
done as quickly as possible.

"The cost of putting it right will be substantial."

But he was upbeat about the prospect of returning the property to the market and
said he did not expect problems when it came to reletting or selling it.

He said: "I think there's as many people that will be attracted by it as there
will be detracted by it.

"In other cases they would knock down the house but there's always the
curiosity. Everyone will be talking about it for years and some people like
that."

Most of the contents of the property have been removed and stored in the
detached garage to the right of the house.

Several doors have been propped up against one wall. There are small yellow
stickers on the panes of glass that mark the fingerprints, Mr Gardiner said.

A washing machine and fridge have been left in the centre of the room. Both have
been covered inside and out by dust used by the forensic investigators. Chairs,
tables and a bedstead have also been left in the garage.

Inside the house the windows have been covered up with sheets, and junk mail
addressed to "Ms D Abdulla" has been piling up at the front door.

Bilal Abdullah, a 27-year-old Iraqi doctor, faces charges of conspiring to cause
explosions at the airport "of a nature likely to endanger life or cause serious
injury".

Kafeel Ahmed, also 27, an Indian engineer, died in hospital following the
incident.

The police investigation was launched into two incidents: two cars with petrol,
nails and gas cylinders were found in London on June 29 and, a day later, a
burning Jeep loaded with gas cylinders was driven into the main terminal
building at Glasgow Airport.

It is alleged the pair had run a "bomb factory" at the semidetached Houston
house, which is five miles from Glasgow Airport, for two months before the June
30 terror attack.

Police claimed that they had difficulty searching the property because of the
number of wires and other bomb-making equipment in the property. Mr Abdullah's
blood and fingerprints were allegedly found on the Mercedes parked outside the
Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, central London, the day before the Glasgow
attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          September 22, 2007, Saturday
                                 WMail Edition

Police hand back 'terror attack' house

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 316 words


THE house at the centre of the police inquiry into the alleged Glasgow Airport
terror attack has been handed back to its owner after months of forensic work,
it was confirmed yesterday.

Police investigating the June 30 incident have stripped No 6 Neuk Crescent in
Houston, Renfrewshire, bare.

The semi-detached property was the home of Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed, the
two men linked to the incident.

The agency which let the house on behalf of the woman owner said the keys were
handed back by police this week.

Daniel Gardiner, director of Let-It, said the property will need major
renovation work before it can be let out again or sold.

Top Gear star 'forgot he was married'

TOP Gear star Richard Hammond forgot he was married in the aftermath of his
top-speed crash - and tried to chat up his own wife.

The presenter, 37, said he thought his real wife was French. He told Friday
Night With Jonathan Ross, "I didn't forget Mindy, I fancied her - thank God - I
attempted to chat her up."

Mindy, who has co-written Hammond's book On The Edge: My Story, which documents
life before and after the crash, said, "He didn't believe we were married.

"He said 'you're lovely, but I've got to stop talking to you because I've got to
go back to my wife, she's French'."

Hammond was left fighting for his life after a 315mph smash in a rocket-powered
car last year.

Newborn baby abandoned in garden

A NEWBORN baby was found abandoned in the garden of a house, police said
yesterday.

The healthy boy, weighing 8lb 10oz, was believed to be just hours old when he
was found in Liverpool last night, and his umbilical cord was still attached.

He had been wrapped in towels and placed inside a bag.

Nurses at Liverpool Women's Hospital named him Zack, after the Fazakerley
district of the city where he was found.

Merseyside Police are appealing for his mother to come forward and have promised
her support and understanding.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday

Denmark to set up crisis center to handle terror attacks

LENGTH: 391 words


Text of report by Danish newspaper Politiken website on 22 September

Inspired by foreign models, Copenhagen will have a permanent command centre to
handle terrorist attacks and other disasters.

If two city trains collide, if Norrebro is being trashed, or if a terrorist cell
explodes a bomb, the capital city will now be better prepared, reported P4
Kobenhavn.

Crisis management for Copenhagen now takes place under miserable conditions in
the main fire station on H. C. Andersens Boulevard. Among other things,
computers, telephones, and blackboards have to be brought from a central
warehouse and set up before the premises can even be used.

That is the reason behind the decision in the capital city budget for 2008,
which will be presented on Friday, to establish a permanent command centre in
Copenhagen.

The police, fire department, hospitals, and political leadership, including the
lord mayor, will gather at the command centre in order to coordinate crisis
management as well as possible.

Inspired by foreign models

Soren Brydholm, deputy chief of the Copenhagen Fire Department, explained that
there are several situations in which the command centre would convene.

"Major train accidents involving many injured and dead, riots of various kinds,
extensive natural disasters, and terrorism in particular. Incidents that impact
many people, where the damage is great and where there is a need to coordinate
many resources," Brydholm told P4 Kobenhavn.

And inspiration was taken from other countries that have been impacted by
terrorism or calamities.

"Instead of working with stopgap measures, with premises that are used for other
purposes, there are many advantages in having premises that can be used for this
purpose. The time needed to put your crisis leadership in place will be
considerably shorter than it is today," the deputy fire chief told P4 Kobenhavn.

It has not yet been decided where the crisis leadership will be located.

Humanitarian support centre

At the same time, money will be put into a so-called humanitarian support
centre.

After the terrorist bombings in London in 2005, a centre was established where
citizens impacted by the incident could go to get assistance from the
municipality, police, and hospitals.

A simlar centre for Copenhagen is supposed to be ready next year.

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 22 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 24, 2007 Monday

Mrs Brown leads the applause for terror attack hero

BYLINE: PIPPA CRERAR, AMAR SINGH

SECTION: C; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 232 words


SARAH BROWN sat beside baggage handler John Smeaton today as Gordon Brown
praised him for his role in preventing the terrorist attack on Glasgow airport.

The Prime Minister's wife joined the audience in applauding the 31-year-old. Mr
Brown said of Mr Smeaton, who went to the aid of a policeman who was being
attacked by one of the terrorists on 30 June: "John told me it was instinctive,
he was doing what was right. That man, that hero is here with us today, and on
behalf of our country John, we thank you." Mrs Brown, in her first speech at
Labour's annual conference, said she expected her husband to win the next
election. She revealed that she hopes to live at No 10 for many years.

"I'm going to be campaigning. I'm going to be there for a fourth Labour term,"
she told a private reception of Labour women, including MPs, activists and
delegates. However, the former PR executive gave no clues about when the Prime
Minister would decide to call a poll.

A guest said: "Sarah got an extremely warm reception. She was talking about how
yes, she was Gordon's wife, but she felt it was important to keep it all as
normal as possible for their family." Other guests said Mrs Brown had admitted
she was still awe-struck about living in Downing Street, more than two months
after moving in. She said that while showing a visitor around she had opened a
door to a room to discover it was a cupboard..

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Honoured: Sarah Brown today sat next to Glasgow airport baggage handler
John Smeaton as her husband praised his heroism

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           September 25, 2007 Tuesday

Young mother in sex attack terror

LENGTH: 379  words


Beast pounces on her near 'no-go' Dublin park

A YOUNG mum waiting for a bus has suffered a sickening sex attack.

The woman, 24, was standing outside a notorious Dublin park when the fiend
pounced and dragged her down a laneway.

Nobody rushed to the woman's aid during the assault - one of FOUR similar
incidents in Ireland over the weekend - which happened at 9.30pm on Sunday near
Marino College in Fairview.

The area is always busy at that time of night, with many pubs and shops open
nearby.

She was treated at the Rotunda Hospital for injuries she suffered. Gardai were
hoping to interview her last night following her release and are appealing for
anyone with information to come forward.

Fairview Park - easily accessible at night but not well lit - has become a no go
zone after dark following a series of high-profile incidents there in recent
years.

Beaten

In 1999, Italian student Guido Nasi was left brain damaged when he was attacked.

He is now confined to a wheelchair and has lost all power of speech.

Fourteen months ago a young Chinese man was beaten to a pulp by a gang of
youths.

Another man was set upon as he jogged through the park in July.

In one of three other weekend incidents, a 22-year-old man was in garda custody
in DONEGAL TOWN last night following an alleged sex assault on a schoolgirl on
Friday.

The man was arrested early yesterday morning in Donegal Town and was being held
at Ballyshannon Garda Station.

The girl was walking home from school when the incident happened in Upper Main
Street between 3.30pm and 4.30pm in the afternoon. Sources say that a file will
be sent to the DPP.

Gardai in nearby BUNDORAN are investigating an alleged sex assault - thought to
be unrelated - in the early hours of Sunday morning.

The incident happened just off the Main Street in the popular seaside resort.
The alleged victim, in her teens, was recovering after medical treatment.

Gardai stressed that their investigation is at an early stage until the exact
facts of what took place are established. No arrests have been made.

The fourth alleged sex assault happened in GALWAY CITY.

Gardai arrested a man in the city centre on Saturday in connection with the
incident at Ceannt Station on Friday night.

The man was released without charge but a file has been sent to the DPP.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday

Kazakhstan: Russian official urges readiness for terror attacks on space sites

LENGTH: 286 words


The special services of Russia and other CIS member countries should be prepared
to fend off terrorist attacks on important facilities, the Interfax-Kazakhstan
news agency reported on 26 September, quoting a deputy director of the FSB,
Vladimir Bulavin.

Speaking to journalists at Kazakhstan's Baykonur cosmodrome on 26 September,
where exercises codenamed "Baykonur-Antiterror-2007" began on the same day, he
said: "Fortunately, there is no information signaling terrorists' direct
intention for [attacking] such facilities. But we should not rule out the
possibility of terrorist attacks on crucial facilities, one of which is
Baykonur, and should be ready for that."

Vladimir Bulavin said cooperation between regional countries was facilitating
the formation of "a common antiterrorist coalition" within the CIS. "The main
task is not only to hold drills, but to decide a future strategy for fighting
terrorism within the CIS," he added.

In a separate report on the same day, the Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency quoted
the head of the CIS Antiterrorist Centre, Andrey Novikov, as saying at the
antiterror exercises that the threat of terrorists using radioactive and
chemical substances would increase. "In international experts' view, the threat
of radioactive, chemical and biological substances being used for terrorist
purposes will steadily increase in the near future," he said.

Noting Baykonur's significance, Andrey Novikov added: "And we should not only
use it jointly, but protect this unique facility from any threats and, above
all, from terrorists."

(The two reports are about 550 words; no further processing is planned)

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0742, 0858 gmt 26
Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday

Arson terror attack on mum and son, aged 4

BYLINE: Amanda Smith

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


A mother had to run through flames clutching her four-year-old son after an
arson attack at her home.

Louise Kelly, who lives in Tennyson Road, Farnworth, woke suddenly at 2.45am to
the smell of smoke.

She shouted to her 18-year-old son Josh to get out and grabbed little Romy from
his bed, running downstairs and out of her side door, close to where the fire
was raging.

Police are investigating the incident.

It is believed a bin, which was in a locked compound next to the house, had been
deliberately set alight, causing a downstairs window to crack. Flames then
spread through the building to the bottom of the stairs.

Heat from the fire also melted a gas pipe, which fire officers say could have
caused the house to blow up had they not arrived when they did.

Miss Kelly, aged 40, grabbed her mobile phone, which was on a bedside table, and
rang the emergency services as soon as she woke up.

She said: "I literally had to run through the flames with my son in arms. I was
terrified.

"I heard a cracking noise from the window and I looked over the bannister and
could see orange flames and smoke.

"I thought that was it and we were not going to get out in time, but fortunately
we all escaped unhurt."

Tony Loftus, crew manager at Farnworth, said: "There was smoke damage to the
property but this could have been a lot worse.

"The woman and her two children were totally in shock."

He said this was an example of how dangerous bin fires could be when they were
close to houses.

Homes either side of Miss Kelly's had to be evacuated and workmen stopped the
gas leak at 5am. They continued working at the property and the family was
allowed back in at 3.30pm.

Anyone with information is asked to call Bolton CID on 0161 856 5740.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday

Arson terror attack on mum and son, aged 4

BYLINE: Amanda Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A mother had to run through flames clutching her four-year-old son after an
arson attack at her home.

Louise Kelly, who lives in Tennyson Road, Farnworth, woke suddenly at 2.45am to
the smell of smoke.

She shouted to her 18-year-old son Josh to get out and grabbed little Romy from
his bed, running downstairs and out of her side door, close to where the fire
was raging.

Police are investigating the incident.

It is believed a bin, which was in a locked compound next to the house, had been
deliberately set alight, causing a downstairs window to crack. Flames then
spread through the building to the bottom of the stairs.

Heat from the fire also melted a gas pipe, which fire officers say could have
caused the house to blow up had they not arrived when they did.

Miss Kelly, aged 40, grabbed her mobile phone, which was on a bedside table, and
rang the emergency services as soon as she woke up.

She said: "I literally had to run through the flames with my son in arms. I was
terrified.

"I heard a cracking noise from the window and I looked over the bannister and
could see orange flames and smoke.

"I thought that was it and we were not going to get out in time, but fortunately
we all escaped unhurt."

Tony Loftus, crew manager at Farnworth, said: "There was smoke damage to the
property but this could have been a lot worse.

"The woman and her two children were totally in shock."

He said this was an example of how dangerous bin fires could be when they were
close to houses.

Homes either side of Miss Kelly's had to be evacuated and workmen stopped the
gas leak at 5am. They continued working at the property and the family was
allowed back in at 3.30pm.

Anyone with information is asked to call Bolton CID on 0161 856 5740.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday

Expelled ex-imam's website mentions imminent terror attacks in Italy - paper

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by Italian newspaper La Repubblica on 27 September

[Unattributed report: "Journalists Threatened by the Former Imam on the
Internet"]

Rome - Abu Sayyaf, the former imam of Carmagnola, has been attacking and
insulting journalists from [news agency] Aki-AdnKronos International, from
[Milan daily] Corriere della Sera, and from [Rome daily] La Repubblica on his
Internet site. Abu Sayyaf was expelled from Italy by the then Interior Minister
Giuseppe Pisanu back in 2003, and he has now sought refuge in Senegal. The
Italian journalists whom he targets on his Internet site are Hamza Boccolini
from Aki, [terrorism expert] Guido Olimpio from Corriere della Sera, and [US
correspondent] Vittorio Zucconi from La Repubblica. Abu Sayyaf also talks about
an alleged document from the terrorist network discussing imminent attacks in
our country.

Source: La Repubblica, Rome, in Italian 27 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                    September 27, 2007 Thursday 7:26 AM BST

MINISTER CRITICISES GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS

LENGTH: 361 words


The Home Office minister responsible for security has criticised Tony Blair's
response to the July 7 terror attacks on London.

Tony McNulty said that Mr Blair's argument that people must be ready to accept
reductions in their civil liberties in the fight against terror because ``the
rules of the game have changed'' was one of a number of mistakes made by the
Government.

Acting as if the rules which have governed the British way of life and protected
individuals' liberties had changed may even have played into the hands of the
terrorists, he suggested.

Too much weight was given to a legislative clampdown on terror groups and not
enough to winning the hearts and minds of the Muslim community.

Within weeks of the July 7 attacks, Mr Blair announced a raft of legislative
measures to tackle terrorists, including tougher deportation and extradition
powers, a new offence of glorifying terrorism and powers to close a place of
worship.

Confronting criticisms that his measures would infringe civil liberties, he
responded bluntly: ``Let no-one be in any doubt, the rules of the game are
changing.''

But Mr McNulty suggested that ministers had been too ready to adopt exceptional
measures which could impact on the liberties enjoyed as part of the British way
of life.

He told a meeting sponsored by the Institute of Public Policy Research on the
fringe of the Labour conference in Bournemouth that mistakes had been made by
the Government, but that ministers had learnt from those mistakes and altered
their approach.

``What are the mistakes?'' he asked. ``With the best will in the world, where we
are at now as a Government means that we are coming round to the view that says,
actually, the rules of the game haven't changed and to suggest that the rules of
the game have changed and we need some specific response to this specific threat
is actually to help the other side more than our own side.

``The more these things are tackled through normality, with some little
exceptions on top, rather than absolutely by exception, the better. The more
your response is rooted in our civil liberties and human rights, with whatever
slight tweaks at the top, the better.'' end

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: PLO


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                    September 27, 2007 Thursday 7:26 AM BST

MINISTER CRITICISES GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 361 words


The Home Office minister responsible for security has criticised Tony Blair's
response to the July 7 terror attacks on London.

Tony McNulty said that Mr Blair's argument that people must be ready to accept
reductions in their civil liberties in the fight against terror because ``the
rules of the game have changed'' was one of a number of mistakes made by the
Government.

Acting as if the rules which have governed the British way of life and protected
individuals' liberties had changed may even have played into the hands of the
terrorists, he suggested.

Too much weight was given to a legislative clampdown on terror groups and not
enough to winning the hearts and minds of the Muslim community.

Within weeks of the July 7 attacks, Mr Blair announced a raft of legislative
measures to tackle terrorists, including tougher deportation and extradition
powers, a new offence of glorifying terrorism and powers to close a place of
worship.

Confronting criticisms that his measures would infringe civil liberties, he
responded bluntly: ``Let no-one be in any doubt, the rules of the game are
changing.''

But Mr McNulty suggested that ministers had been too ready to adopt exceptional
measures which could impact on the liberties enjoyed as part of the British way
of life.

He told a meeting sponsored by the Institute of Public Policy Research on the
fringe of the Labour conference in Bournemouth that mistakes had been made by
the Government, but that ministers had learnt from those mistakes and altered
their approach.

``What are the mistakes?'' he asked. ``With the best will in the world, where we
are at now as a Government means that we are coming round to the view that says,
actually, the rules of the game haven't changed and to suggest that the rules of
the game have changed and we need some specific response to this specific threat
is actually to help the other side more than our own side.

``The more these things are tackled through normality, with some little
exceptions on top, rather than absolutely by exception, the better. The more
your response is rooted in our civil liberties and human rights, with whatever
slight tweaks at the top, the better.'' end

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 27, 2007 Thursday 4:25 AM BST

MINISTER CRITICISES GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock, PA Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 837 words


The Home Office minister responsible for security has rejected Tony Blair's
argument that people must be ready to accept reductions in their civil liberties
in the fight against terror because ``the rules of the game have changed''.

Tony McNulty said that Mr Blair's argument was one of a number of mistakes made
by the Government in the wake of the July 7 terror attacks in London in 2005 and
the September 11 atrocities in the USA.

Acting as if the rules which have governed the British way of life and protected
individuals' liberties had changed may even have played into the hands of the
terrorists, he suggested.

Too much weight was given to a legislative clampdown on terror groups and not
enough to winning the hearts and minds of the Muslim community.

Within weeks of the July 7 attacks, Mr Blair announced a raft of legislative
measures to tackle terrorists, including tougher deportation and extradition
powers, a new offence of glorifying terrorism and powers to close a place of
worship.

Confronting criticisms that his measures would infringe civil liberties, he
responded bluntly: ``Let no-one be in any doubt, the rules of the game are
changing.''

But Mr McNulty yesterday suggested that ministers had been too ready to adopt
exceptional measures which could impact on the liberties enjoyed as part of the
British way of life.

He told a meeting sponsored by the Institute of Public Policy Research on the
fringe of the Labour conference in Bournemouth that mistakes had been made by
the Government, but that ministers had learnt from those mistakes and altered
their approach.

``What are the mistakes?'' he asked. ``With the best will in the world, where we
are at now as a Government means that we are coming round to the view that says,
actually, the rules of the game haven't changed and to suggest that the rules of
the game have changed and we need some specific response to this specific threat
is actually to help the other side more than our own side.

``The more these things are tackled through normality, with some little
exceptions on top, rather than absolutely by exception, the better.

``The more your response is rooted in our civil liberties and human rights, with
whatever slight tweaks at the top, the better.''

Mr McNulty added: ``I think we have learnt lessons in terms of legislation from
the alleged plot of last summer... by not rushing headlong into looking at
legislation instantly and with very short shrift, but by taking the time to
develop a broader counter-terrorism response by Government in all its facets.''

One year after the alleged plot to attack airliners leaving Heathrow, the
Government was in the middle of a consultative process which should bring
forward helpful measures agreed by consensus with the community, he said.

It was also a mistake to treat the Muslim Council of Britain as if it was the
only voice of British Muslims and to ``elevate it to an exclusivity that wasn't
warranted'' said Mr McNulty.

Work by the Department of Communities and Local Government under Ruth Kelly had
allowed the Government to foster relations with other Muslim groups and to
develop a strategy that was as much about winning hearts and minds as about
legislation, he said.

Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti told the meeting that Mr McNulty's acceptance
that Mr Blair was mistaken to think that the rules had changed was like the
Biblical return of the prodigal son, who gave up a life of sin and came back
home.

Enthusiastically welcoming his comments, Ms Chakrabarti said: ``'The rules of
the game haven't changed and must not change'. That didn't come from me, that
came from Tony McNulty, a Home Office minister... The angels are weeping in
heaven.''

Asked about her minister's comments, Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said at a
separate session that she and Mr McNulty had always been in agreement on the
approach to counter terrorism.

She said: ``We are completely at one on the way we have to take this forward.

``It has been commented on that we probably have not been as effective as we
should have been previously, both in the language that was used in our response
to terrorism and the nature of terrorism.

``Winning over people's hearts and minds and making the case against those who
want to carry out attacks on us means we have to think carefully about the
arguments you make and you do not want to further alienate people in the way you
react.

``I would say that that is an area in which we need to learn.''

Liberal Democrat shadow home secretary Nick Clegg MP said: ``Finally a
Government minister admits to something which has been blindingly obvious to
most of the public for a long time: sacrificing British liberties in the name of
a 'war on terror' is self-defeating in the extreme.

``Why, then, does Gordon Brown nonetheless insist on re-opening the vexed issue
of 28-day period of detention without charge despite having no concrete evidence
to back his case?

``The rhetoric might have changed, but the failings of Blairite knee-jerk
lawmaking still seems to be firmly in place.''

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 27, 2007 Thursday 4:25 AM BST

MINISTER CRITICISES GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock, PA Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 837 words


The Home Office minister responsible for security has rejected Tony Blair's
argument that people must be ready to accept reductions in their civil liberties
in the fight against terror because ``the rules of the game have changed''.

Tony McNulty said that Mr Blair's argument was one of a number of mistakes made
by the Government in the wake of the July 7 terror attacks in London in 2005 and
the September 11 atrocities in the USA.

Acting as if the rules which have governed the British way of life and protected
individuals' liberties had changed may even have played into the hands of the
terrorists, he suggested.

Too much weight was given to a legislative clampdown on terror groups and not
enough to winning the hearts and minds of the Muslim community.

Within weeks of the July 7 attacks, Mr Blair announced a raft of legislative
measures to tackle terrorists, including tougher deportation and extradition
powers, a new offence of glorifying terrorism and powers to close a place of
worship.

Confronting criticisms that his measures would infringe civil liberties, he
responded bluntly: ``Let no-one be in any doubt, the rules of the game are
changing.''

But Mr McNulty yesterday suggested that ministers had been too ready to adopt
exceptional measures which could impact on the liberties enjoyed as part of the
British way of life.

He told a meeting sponsored by the Institute of Public Policy Research on the
fringe of the Labour conference in Bournemouth that mistakes had been made by
the Government, but that ministers had learnt from those mistakes and altered
their approach.

``What are the mistakes?'' he asked. ``With the best will in the world, where we
are at now as a Government means that we are coming round to the view that says,
actually, the rules of the game haven't changed and to suggest that the rules of
the game have changed and we need some specific response to this specific threat
is actually to help the other side more than our own side.

``The more these things are tackled through normality, with some little
exceptions on top, rather than absolutely by exception, the better.

``The more your response is rooted in our civil liberties and human rights, with
whatever slight tweaks at the top, the better.''

Mr McNulty added: ``I think we have learnt lessons in terms of legislation from
the alleged plot of last summer... by not rushing headlong into looking at
legislation instantly and with very short shrift, but by taking the time to
develop a broader counter-terrorism response by Government in all its facets.''

One year after the alleged plot to attack airliners leaving Heathrow, the
Government was in the middle of a consultative process which should bring
forward helpful measures agreed by consensus with the community, he said.

It was also a mistake to treat the Muslim Council of Britain as if it was the
only voice of British Muslims and to ``elevate it to an exclusivity that wasn't
warranted'' said Mr McNulty.

Work by the Department of Communities and Local Government under Ruth Kelly had
allowed the Government to foster relations with other Muslim groups and to
develop a strategy that was as much about winning hearts and minds as about
legislation, he said.

Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti told the meeting that Mr McNulty's acceptance
that Mr Blair was mistaken to think that the rules had changed was like the
Biblical return of the prodigal son, who gave up a life of sin and came back
home.

Enthusiastically welcoming his comments, Ms Chakrabarti said: ``'The rules of
the game haven't changed and must not change'. That didn't come from me, that
came from Tony McNulty, a Home Office minister... The angels are weeping in
heaven.''

Asked about her minister's comments, Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said at a
separate session that she and Mr McNulty had always been in agreement on the
approach to counter terrorism.

She said: ``We are completely at one on the way we have to take this forward.

``It has been commented on that we probably have not been as effective as we
should have been previously, both in the language that was used in our response
to terrorism and the nature of terrorism.

``Winning over people's hearts and minds and making the case against those who
want to carry out attacks on us means we have to think carefully about the
arguments you make and you do not want to further alienate people in the way you
react.

``I would say that that is an area in which we need to learn.''

Liberal Democrat shadow home secretary Nick Clegg MP said: ``Finally a
Government minister admits to something which has been blindingly obvious to
most of the public for a long time: sacrificing British liberties in the name of
a 'war on terror' is self-defeating in the extreme.

``Why, then, does Gordon Brown nonetheless insist on re-opening the vexed issue
of 28-day period of detention without charge despite having no concrete evidence
to back his case?

``The rhetoric might have changed, but the failings of Blairite knee-jerk
lawmaking still seems to be firmly in place.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday

How to cope after a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Anna Mansell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: Swindon Advertiser


BUSINESSES will be drilled in dealing with potential terrorist attacks during a
special event next month.

Companies from Swindon's two main shopping precincts will come together for the
first Operation Argus exercise in Wiltshire, part of a counter-terrorism
campaign being rolled out across the country.

Wiltshire's emergency services and emergency planners from Swindon Council and
Wiltshire County Council have joined forces with the NaCTSO (National Counter
Terrorism Security Office) to take on the operation, in offering simulated
training sessions to firms in the area.

Representatives from the Brunel Centre and Swindon Designer Outlet will take
part in the county's first session, which aims to prepare them for how to deal
with the immediate aftermath of an attack, as well as the slightly longer-term
effects.

Wiltshire Police's counter terrorism security adviser, who cannot be identified,
will be "facilitating" the half-day events as they are arranged throughout the
county.

He said: "Two or three years ago it was realised that crowded places are very
vulnerable around the country.

"Stadia and arenas have large numbers of people there but on a daily basis
shopping centres have thousands of people in them."

The Argus sessions are divided into two parts, with the first one focusing on
how to manage an emergency in the immediate aftermath looking at matters such as
evacuation procedures and equipment that shops and other firms should have
available.

Leadership techniques for those who would be dealing with an incident ahead of
the emergency services arriving on the scene will also be looked at.

The second element will look at the longer-term effects and the ways businesses
should be prepared to re-establish them-selves after an attack, for example
setting up computer back-up systems.

Each session will also allow time for firms to share their own current security
policies and they will be encouraged to swap contact details to build an
information network.

A film, based on real terrorist incidents, will be screened during the event,
designed to prompt discussions and lead to problem solving among the delegates.

Wiltshire Police's assistant chief constable Andy Marsh said: "We have no
specific terrorist threat posed here in Wiltshire, but it would be complacent
not to be fully supporting this national initiative.

"Wiltshire is a safe place and we want to keep it that way. We want to give the
business community the knowledge, skills and opportunities to work together to
make the community safe when people are in crowded areas."

Operation Argus was first launched in January, by the Metropolitan Police.

Since then the top 100 companies in the country, and other police forces, have
taken Project Argus on board.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An Army bomb disposal team was called to deal with a suspect device at
the County Ground in August.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

Afghan security forces avert possible terrorist attack in capital

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 27 September

[Presenter] A terrorist network wanted to martyr our innocent people during the
holy month of Ramadan. It had placed very heavy and strong explosives in two
coats and wanted to carry out suicide attacks with remote control. Personnel of
the Interior Ministry's Counter-terrorism Department, in their operations,
discovered its plan. The coats, packed with explosives, were found in a
terrorist hideout in Surobi district [Kabul Province]. There were plans to
transfer the explosives to Kabul.

Efforts to arrest perpetrators of the incident are under way. No one has so far
been arrested in connection with the incident.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1430 gmt 27 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

Israel radio reports killing of Gaza "terrorist", rocket attacks in south

LENGTH: 204 words


At 1700 gmt: "A Qassam rocket was fired at the western Negev. It exploded in
open territory, and there were no injuries and no damage was caused. Our
correspondent Anat Ben-Sa'id reports that Palestinians also fired a mortar shell
near the border fence in the southern part of the Gaza Strip. There were no
injuries and no damage was caused."

At 2000 gmt: "A short time ago, an IDF force attacked a terrorist squad in the
Bayt Hanun area in the northern part of the Gaza Strip. The Palestinians report
that one Palestinian was killed. According to another report, several other
Palestinians were wounded in the attack. This is reported by our correspondent
Karmela Menashe.

"A Qassam rocket was fired at Sederot a short time ago - the second one this
evening. There were no injuries and no damage was caused."

"In Hebron, Israeli border policemen detained a Palestinian carrying a home-made
weapon. The Palestinian approached the Jewish settlers' homes, and when the
policemen called him to stop he threw away a bag and tried to escape. After
being apprehended, a search revealed the improvised weapon. Our correspondent
Guy Qotev reports the man was taken to interrogation."

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 27 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

How to cope after a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Anna Mansell

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words


BUSINESSES will be drilled in dealing with potential terrorist attacks during a
special event next month.

Companies from Swindon's two main shopping precincts will come together for the
first Operation Argus exercise in Wiltshire, part of a counter-terrorism
campaign being rolled out across the country.

Wiltshire's emergency services and emergency planners from Swindon Council and
Wiltshire County Council have joined forces with the NaCTSO (National Counter
Terrorism Security Office) to take on the operation, in offering simulated
training sessions to firms in the area.

Representatives from the Brunel Centre and Swindon Designer Outlet will take
part in the county's first session, which aims to prepare them for how to deal
with the immediate aftermath of an attack, as well as the slightly longer-term
effects.

Wiltshire Police's counter terrorism security adviser, who cannot be identified,
will be "facilitating" the half-day events as they are arranged throughout the
county.

He said: "Two or three years ago it was realised that crowded places are very
vulnerable around the country.

"Stadia and arenas have large numbers of people there but on a daily basis
shopping centres have thousands of people in them."

The Argus sessions are divided into two parts, with the first one focusing on
how to manage an emergency in the immediate aftermath looking at matters such as
evacuation procedures and equipment that shops and other firms should have
available.

Leadership techniques for those who would be dealing with an incident ahead of
the emergency services arriving on the scene will also be looked at.

The second element will look at the longer-term effects and the ways businesses
should be prepared to re-establish them-selves after an attack, for example
setting up computer back-up systems.

Each session will also allow time for firms to share their own current security
policies and they will be encouraged to swap contact details to build an
information network.

A film, based on real terrorist incidents, will be screened during the event,
designed to prompt discussions and lead to problem solving among the delegates.

Wiltshire Police's assistant chief constable Andy Marsh said: "We have no
specific terrorist threat posed here in Wiltshire, but it would be complacent
not to be fully supporting this national initiative.

"Wiltshire is a safe place and we want to keep it that way. We want to give the
business community the knowledge, skills and opportunities to work together to
make the community safe when people are in crowded areas."

Operation Argus was first launched in January, by the Metropolitan Police.

Since then the top 100 companies in the country, and other police forces, have
taken Project Argus on board.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

'Laser gun' will help foil mid-air terror attacks

BYLINE:  Barry Leighton  b.leighton@bepp.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 461 words


Alaser gun developed by   scientists in the West Country could revolutionise air
travel security around the world in the battle against terrorism.

But this "gun" is not quite what you might expect.

While it sounds like a weapon from a science fiction movie, the laser-technology
device is actually used to  detect hidden liquid explosives through common
plastic containers and glass bottles.

Using the new gadget, airport security staff will be able to  "see the
invisible" to help in the ongoing battle against terrorism and speed up
time-consuming safety measures at airports.

The hand-held laser gun   was developed by a group of scientists which included
the  Swindon-based Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).

Yesterday, STFC issued a statement saying: "There is real concern about  the use
of liquid explosives by terrorists, which has led to the current  restrictions
in place at airports.

"Current methods for detecting potentially dangerous materials are
time-consuming and not always practical.

"The difficulty in detecting these substances is also compounded by the  wide
variety of packaging used by air travellers in which these  explosives can be
readily concealed."

Pressing concerns over terrorism have given projects that can improve  security
a high priority.

It saw a group of boffins from the UK and America develop a  technique known as
"Spatially Offset Raman Spectroscopy", which was  originally developed for
medical and pharmaceutical uses.

The method produces instant chemical information on liquids contained in
transparent and diffuse plastic containers. This includes containers made from
coloured materials.

A successful demonstration showing how it could be used in the security
industry was carried out by scientists from the  Rutherford Appleton  Laboratory
in Oxfordshire, which is a  STFC facility.

Professor Mike Dunne, director of the Central Laser Facility at the  Rutherford
Appleton, said: "This work is a fine example of how  fundamental scientific
research can come up with solutions to practical  problems that concern every
one of us."

He said the technology was not limited to improving and speeding up  security.
It could also be adapted to detect  contaminated food and drink  products as
well as for use in quality control in the food, pharmaceutical  and chemical
industries.

Dr Pavel Matousek, the project team leader, said they are now planning to
develop the technology commercially through a  new  company.

He said the company would address areas such as pharmaceutical manufacture,
anti-counterfeiting, medical diagnosis and security  applications.

Based at Swindon's North Star complex, the Government-funded STFC  ensures the
UK retains its leading place on the global stage by  delivering world-class
science.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

Facing up to a Town centre terror attack

BYLINE:  Tristan Cork   t.cork@bepp.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 549 words


People running  major shopping centres are to be given counter-terrorism
training in case the war on terror arrives on their high street.

Managers, shopworkers and security guards are to undergo a three-hour exercise
to  simulate a terrorism attack on their shopping centre.

The project, Operation Argus, kicks off in Wiltshire next month when managers
from Swindon's shopping centres will take part in an exercise at the Steam
Museum, next to the huge McArthur Glen Outlet Centre.

But anti-terrorism chiefs moved to reassure the public there were no specific
threats to Swindon, and the simulations would not affect shoppers or members of
the public.

At a briefing yesterday, a senior officer with NaCTSO (the National Counter
Terrorism Security Office) said the recent attacks on Glasgow airport and
London's West End showed terrorists regarded anywhere with large crowds as a
target.

The officer, who cannot be identified for security reasons, said the simulation
exercises and training had spread from London this year, and initially involved
training security staff and bosses at sporting stadiums and concert venues.

"But it became obvious that while crowds of people gather in those places at
specific times, it is a controlled and managed event. Shopping centres provide a
much more open option. This exercise was presented to the top 100 companies in
January, and it has spread from there," he said.

"It is a simulation exercise that takes place in the immediate aftermath of a
terrorist attack, and is aimed at managers, deputies and security staff in a
shopping centre.

"The format can contain as many as 80 people, and they are split into
syndicates. They are given a series of developing scenarios, for instance the
first part looks at how to survive in the immediate aftermath of an attack.

"But it also looks long-term, at things that businesses can do to make sure they
aren't affected in the long-run, months and years after an attack. For instance,
in Manchester, 40 per cent of the businesses never got back on their feet after
the IRA bomb.

"It's interactive and there will be experts from all the emergency services, as
well as the council's emergency planning people, on hand to help and give
advice."

The training also deals with how to prevent an attack, including giving advice
on spotting terrorists carrying out what security experts call hostile
reconnaissance, noting people movements, times of deliveries and so on.

"We would urge all those people involved in running shopping centres to get
involved and take part. It doesn't get heated but it does get enthusiastic
because they suddenly realise how important they are in tackling things like
this," he added.

At the launch, the initiative was backed by Wiltshire's deputy chief fire
officer Peter Baxter, emergency planning boss at the Great Western Ambulance
Service, Richard McKeand, Wiltshire's deputy emergency planning officer John
Edwards and Assistant Chief Constable Andy Marsh.

Mr Marsh said: "

This is about protecting communities and keeping them safe. It would be remiss
of us not to take account of this just because Wiltshire is a rural community.
And I stress that there is no specific threat."

The first two events take place at the Steam Museum on October 10 and at the
council chamber in Trowbridge on October 25.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 1, 2007 Monday 12:42 PM BST

WARNING AS BLAST VICTIMS NOT COVERED FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Peter Woodman, PA Travel Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words


Holidaymakers were warned today to check their travel insurance after it emerged
that a British couple injured in the Maldives' bomb blast were not covered for a
terrorist attack.

As many as 40% of UK travel companies do not offer insurance to cover terrorist
outrages, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) said today.

``It's up to people to carefully check the terms of their insurance and, if
necessary, switch to another insurer,'' said an ABI spokeswoman.

She went on: ``The number of travel insurance companies offering cover for
terrorist incidents has grown over the last few years.

``But the number is still only around the 60% mark and it is absolutely vital
that people know if they are covered or not.

``The reason that not all companies offer this type of cover is that it is a
very competitive market and many people only want the basic cover.''

The spokeswoman continued: ``A lot of people pay the bare minimum. They just
want cover for a week and pay for enough insurance to cover the basics.

``Since 9/11 and terrorist attacks such as the Bali bombing there has been much
more awareness from travellers of the need for a higher level of cover.

``The market has responded to this and, of course, also offers cover for the
growing number of people who want to take part in activity holidays.

``So our advice to people is check your terms and conditions and shop around
until you get what you want.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 2, 2007

Could you survive a terror attack?;
How would you react if the bombs were exploding? Julia Horton finds out what it
takes to stay alive

BYLINE: Julia Horton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1521 words



HIGHLIGHT: EXPLOSIVE EXAMPLE: Course participants play dead after a "bomb"
attack. Fortunately, this was make-believe, but there is growing concern about
the terrorism threat. Pictures: Richard Scott


I CRASH to the ground, face twisted to one side, eyes shut tight, heart
pounding, terrified to move and terrified not to. Acrid smoke fills the air and
an eerie silence descends. I remember a shout but the grenade seems to come from
nowhere, rolling towards me and exploding in a flash, sending shrapnel flying.
When I look up a bloody mess of body parts ripped apart by the blast lies
scattered in front of me.

Thankfully, neither the bomb nor the carnage is real. I am taking part in the
first terrorism survival and awareness course for the public in Scotland. It has
been launched by Helensburgh-based international terrorism expert Simon Leila,
who runs 360 Defence and has spent the past decade offering the same kind of
training to the government, police, military and businesses.

You could argue that, given the already legendary reactions of baggage handler
John Smeaton at Glasgow Airport, ordinary citizens, in the wild west at least,
need no such training. Leila points out that most have-a-go heroes, however, end
up dead and the course is about teaching people to survive.

The Glasgow attack also confirmed just how real is the threat at home as well as
overseas, giving the course a greater relevance. Of the 20 or so people here,
the youngest is a schoolboy and the oldest is a grandmother, supporting Leila's
claim that there is growing demand from all of society. If my reactions and
those of everyone else in the group are any indication, the public could do with
a few tips.

I can confess that when Joe, Leila's fellow instructor, turned "suicide bomber",
without warning, our initial response was to jump back a few steps from the
grenade in shock, laughing nervously and glancing around the room, wondering
what to do next. Not that there would have been a next if it had been a real
attack, for, as Leila puts it: "You're all dead."

What we should have done is drop to the floor instantly - and we spend the next
15 minutes practising falling forwards and backwards on to safety mats. Leila
explains that once a bomb has gone off, the safest place to head is towards the
explosion because there could be more than one terrorist. If you run away, you
risk heading towards another bomb. We move on to practice dodging sniper fire,
which Leila demonstrates by running in a zig-zag towards the cover of a concrete
pillar.

Despite, or maybe because of, the horror of what we are training for, the
atmosphere is good-humoured. It is difficult to take yourself too seriously when
you are wearing safety goggles, to protect us from the ballbearing "bullets" and
pyrotechnic flash-bang grenades used as fake bombs. But when Leila and Joe let
rip with guns to re-enact a hostage situation similar to the Russian theatre
siege by Chechen rebels, it suddenly feels very real as we dive to the floor
once more.

The idea is that we pretend to be dead and try to move "while dead" to escape.
As they pace around the room, occasionally kicking us (albeit gently) to see if
we will react, I find myself trying to hold my breath as I creep forward,
millimetre by millimetre. Luckily, I landed with my eyes shut. Everyone who's
eyes stayed open has to perfect the dead man's stare, making sure they don't
blink if the terrorists are near. It is incredibly hard, even for a few minutes.
In real life, survivors have crawled like this over the dead bodies of less
fortunate victims for 24 hours or more before getting far enough to escape.

Leila talks us through more issues, including how to spot a terrorist. Of
course, they look like everyone else, but can be identified by their behaviour.
He says: "If something looks a bit odd, it probably is. Terrorists who are about
to attack will be trying too hard to blend in. You need to remove yourself from
that British reserve of thinking something looks suspicious but is probably
nothing. That nothing was 7/7."

WE ARE all now sitting in a mock aeroplane, created simply from seats set out in
the formation of a 737. Although statistically the chances of being hijacked are
low, Leila warns that there are still, on average, three attempted hijacks every
week around the world. In an instant, Leila turns terrorist again, brandishing a
gun and yelling: "Put your heads down between your legs and hold your ankles.
"You move, you die!"

Jabbing the gun at a man behind me, he barks: "Have you got a mobile phone? Call
your wife, tell her you love her." Bent double, barely able to see, I hear a cry
from in front as a young lad leaps up and tries to floor Leila. Another
passenger in the row behind goes for Joe and gunfire erupts as the four men
fight in the aisle. The would-be heroes are soon dead. But although they failed,
Leila says that in a 9/11 scenario, in which mobile phones are used to trigger a
bomb, you may as well try to overpower the terrorists because you have nothing
to lose - if you do nothing, you are going to die anyway.

Wannabe hero number one, Adam Flint, 17, of Newton Mairns, his T-shirt spattered
in fake blood, says afterwards: "I was just thinking I'm going to go, so I
shouted, 'Let's get them!' and went for it.

"I felt tense; I don't know what I'd do if it happened for real. Doing this
course has given me confidence, though, and made me more aware of what's going
on around me."

Glasgow father of three Eric Hamilton, 41, an engineering firm manager, the
second passenger to fight back, said he joined the course to help protect his
family. He said: "My children are eight, seven and four, and they are growing up
in a different world.

"When they are older I want to be able to teach them how to be more aware, not
just of possible terrorism, but crime in general, especially of street crime in
Glasgow."

At 74, Deborah, who did not want to give her surname, is the oldest on the
course. The Glasgow grandmother signed up because she believes everyone now has
a role to play in public safety.

She says: "People are reluctant to think about these things but unfortunately we
have to now. It's being forced on us. You used to read about these things
[terrorism] happening far away. It's frightening now we have had the Glasgow
Airport attack - that was a big shock. No-one ever thought it would happen
there.

"I will still fly anyway; I'm not worried about it at all, but it's something I
think people should take more seriously."

As I listen to Leila's advice, I am tense, alert, wondering when the next test
will come. And this time when the next "suicide bomber" attacks, we all crash to
the ground, hands over our ears, eyes shut, legs together, crawling towards the
scene on our stomachs as the smoke clears. "You're all alive, " Leila says
grinning.

Such is the sensitivity over the course that the central Glasgow venue where it
is taking place today asked for its identity to be kept secret. Perhaps more
understandably, bosses also refused to let Leila recreate the Glasgow Airport
Jeep attack outside with his own vehicle in case it alarmed the public.

Leila is aware of critics who claim the course, which costs GBP159 for a full
day, is capitalising on fear and breeding paranoia, but he rebuts the
allegations outright.

As he says, in Nick Ross Crimewatch style: "Don't be paranoid. Be aware. All you
want to do is survive if you are involved in an incident. Hopefully, this course
will help make sure you do so you can all get home and have a nice cup of tea."

'Trust your instincts if you think something looks odd'

SIMON Leila (pictured) and his 360 Defence team of anti-terrorism experts have a
background in the security and special services. As a result, much of the
self-defence work they teach in the survival and awareness course is based on a
technique called Krav Maga, which is aimed at fine-tuning people's instinctive
responses in real situations.

Literally meaning "contact combat", Krav Maga includes practising the best way
to hit back if under attack by battering a punchbag with open palms, elbows and
knees. The mantra throughout the course is about trying to stay out of trouble
in the first place, by following the three As: awareness, anticipation and
avoidance.

You can boost how alert you are by practising what Leila calls "sneaky peaks" to
help you spot signs of trouble. He demonstrates by hiding behind a pillar and
poking his head round for a second to scan the room. Another message is to trust
your instincts if you think something looks odd. For an immediate threat, dial
999, and for suspicious behaviour without an apparent risk of imminent danger
call the Anti-Terrorism Hotline UK on 0800 789 321.

Sceptics remain, but Leila points out that the idea of training the public has
won support from Professor Paul Wilkinson, head of terrorism studies at St
Andrews University, who said recently that "there is room for this type of
course and we just have to accept it in the world we live in".

To book a place on the next course, likely to be held later this month or next,
visit the 360 Defence Ltd website at www.360defence. co. uk.

I don't know what I'd do if it happened for real

Adam Flint, 17

I was not surprised when Glasgow was attacked

Elizabeth Huber, 32

What we've learned is very practical

David Sutherland, 36

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

UN head condemns terrorist attacks in southeast Turkey

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

UNITED NATIONS (A.A) -UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned recent
terrorist attacks in southeastern province of Sirnak and western province of
Izmir that killed over a dozen people.

Ban's spokesperson said in a statement on Tuesday that the Secretary-General
regrets the loss of lives caused by a series of recent attacks in Turkey,
including two bomb blasts in Izmir on Tuesday which reportedly left one person
killed and ten people wounded, as well as an attack on a bus on September 29th
in southeastern Turkey near the town of Beytussebab in the Sirnak province,
which reportedly left 12 people killed.

"The Secretary-General reiterates in the strongest terms his condemnation of
violence in all its forms," it said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0623 gmt 3 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

EU commissioner condemns recent terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["REHN CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN SIRNAK AND IZMIR" - AA headline]

BRUSSELS (A.A) 02.10.2007 - EU Commissioner for Enlargement Olli Rehn strongly
condemned today's terrorist attacks in Aegean province of Izmir and last
Sunday's attacks in southeastern province of Sirnak, on Tuesday.

Offering his condolonces to the families of victims who lost their lives at the
attacks and to the Turkish nation on behalf of the European Comission, Rehn said
they supported Turkey with its fight against terrorism which was a common enemy
for all.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1927 gmt 2 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

German envoy condemns east Turkey terrorist attack

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["GERMAN AMBASSADOR CUNTZ CONDEMNS RECENT ATTACK IN SIRNAK" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) - 02.10.2007 - The German Ambassador in Ankara Eckart Cuntz has
sent a letter to Turkish Foreign Minister and Chief Negotiator for EU talks Ali
Babacan and condemned the recent killing of 12 people in Sirnak on Saturday.

Ambassador Cuntz stressed in his letter that he has been deeply saddened by the
incident in Sirnak where 12 people were killed by PKK terrorists.

"We share Turkey's pain and sorrow at this time. Nothing can portray terrorist
violence as something acceptable. People living in the Sirnak region want peace
and silence. Peace and silence are essential for the social and economic
development of the region. Terrorist acts are a blow to hopes," noted Cuntz.

Ambassador Cuntz underlined that the EU is on Turkey's side in the fight against
terror. "The cooperation among our countries agains terror will continue to be a
policy of Germany," added Cuntz.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1925 gmt 2 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

MP says Al-Qa'idah, Taliban involved in Iran "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report in English by Iranian Mehr news agency in English

Tehran, 4 October: Majlis representative of Zahedan condemned the terrorist
attack which led to the martyrdom of a Shi'i cleric during Qadr nights
[ceremonies held during the month of Ramadan to mark descend of Koran] in the
Eftekharabad village of Khash [in Sistan- Baluchestan Province] and said:
Al-Qa'idah and Taliban may have been involved in this terrorist act.

In an interview with Mehr correspondent, Hoseynali Shahriari, stressed the
necessity for the people to be vigilant against the divisive plots of the enemy
and added: During this year which is called [by the Supreme Leader], National
Unity and Islamic Solidarity Enemies, enemies are not sitting idle, they are
aiming to create discord; but they should know that these actions, will only
strengthen the unity among Shi'is and Sunnis and they will not succeed in their
evil plots.

He reminded: The hegemonic powers and the US as their head, is aiming to create
discord among various Islamic sects and communities in order to achieve its evil
objectives.

Shahriari stressed: These powers try to achieve their wicked objectives by
provoking mercenaries and paid lackeys and through carrying out terrorist acts
to achieve their evil plots.

Expressing his sorrow over the fact that a number of copies of Korans were
shattered by bullets, he reiterated: They are the people who are not only
enemies of Shi'is and Sunnis, but also have no fear of insulting the Koran.

The representative of Zahedan stressed: America is the root cause of these
problems and most probably America, which had the main role in creating
Al-Qa'idah and Taliban, was involved in the Khash terrorist incident.

The terrorists who were supported by America martyred a cleric during mourning
ceremonies in Khash.

Mehdi Tavakkoli, the cleric who was attending the mourning ceremonies from
Zahedan, was martyred by terrorists on Tuesday [2 October] while preaching about
the virtues of the Shi'i imams.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 0802 gmt 4 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 4, 2007 Thursday 10:27 AM BST

TRAVEL INSURANCE 'FAILS TO COVER TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge, PA Personal Finance Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 274 words


Less than one in five travel insurance policies provides cover for people caught
up in terrorist attacks, research showed today.

Six out of 10 single trip travel insurance policies and 62% of annual ones offer
no cover against instances linked to terrorism, according to travel insurer
InsureandGo.

Among those which do offer some cover for terrorist incidents 11.4% of single
trip policies and 9.7% of annual ones provided medical cover only, while just 1%
of both types of policy offered medical, personal accident and baggage cover.

Overall, only 12.5% of single trip policies and 16% of annual ones provided
unrestricted protection against acts of terrorism.

People with a travel insurance policy that does not cover terrorist incidents
would be left to fend for themselves if they were caught up in an attack.

InsureandGo is calling on the travel insurance industry to dramatically improve
the level of cover it offers in relation to terrorist incidents.

Figures from the National Counterterrorism Center in the US show there were
14,000 terrorist incidents around the world during 2006, 25% more than in 2005.

Although many of these occurred in Iraq, there were still a number of incidents
in countries regularly visited by Britons, including Thailand, the Philippines,
Turkey, Israel, Nepal, Sri Lanka and India.

Perry Wilson, managing director of InsureandGo, said: ``Given these alarming
figures, it is clear that travel insurance policies should offer cover against
terrorism as standard but at the moment, a number of policies don't which is a
real black mark against the industry.''

The research was carried out by Defaqto in February this year.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                October 4, 2007

Brick attack terror on train

LENGTH: 304  words


A rail passenger told today how a brick hurled from a railway bridge by a yob
shattered a window, showering two women with glass.

Robert Graham, 41, was travelling on the 5.50pm train from Sunderland to Seaham
on Tuesday when the attack occurred as it passed under the Spelter Works Road
bridge at Grangetown.

He said: "I saw two youths on top of the bridge. The train driver was sounding
his horn because I believe he'd seen them. The brick came through the side
window.

"It was such a loud bang and everybody was looking round not knowing what had
happened.

"The woman in the seat next to the window was covered in glass and the brick
landed on her lap. Two women were also sitting next to the window."

"It was very shocking for them. I don't think they were injured, just taken
aback.

"I went to the back of the train and told the conductor that the train had been
bricked."

He said the train was stopped at Seaham where the damage was inspected and he
got out.

Mr Graham, an IT consultant, continued his journey to his home in Hawthorn, near
Seaham, by car, returning later to the scene of the attack.

A spokesman for Northern Rail said: "This was a dangerous attack by a youth who
was trespassing on the railway line. Fortunately no-one was injured.

"We are working hard with the British Transport Police, Network Rail and other
agencies to reduce youth crime on the railway.

"Young people who trespass on the railway need to understand they are putting
their lives at risk."

Last year, the driver of a Newcastle-bound train narrowly escaped injury after a
brick was thrown and smashed his cab window as his service travelled through
Filton near Bristol.

The train, going from Bristol Temple Meads to Newcastle, was carrying hundreds
of passengers getting away for the Easter weekend. The driver was not injured,
but was badly shaken.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday

Three German soldiers reported injured in Afghan terror attack

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 5 October

Potsdam -Three soldiers and an Afghan civilian suffered slight injuries in an
attack on a Federal Armed Forces [Bundeswehr] convoy in Afghanistan on Friday [
5 October]. According to the operational command headquarters in Potsdam, the
vehicles were travelling west of the northern Afghan city of Konduz at 1645
local time, when an explosive device detonated, damaging one of the vehicles.
The injured soldiers were taken to the hospital in the Federal Armed Forces camp
for medical treatment. It remains unclear at present whether the explosion was
caused by a suicide bomber, a mine, or an improvised explosive charge.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1543 gmt 5 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Turkish Cypriot leader condemns terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["TRNC PRESIDENT TALAT CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN TURKEY" - AA headline]

LEFKOSA (A.A) -09.10.2007 -President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus
(TRNC) Mehmet Ali Talat condemned the recent terrorist attacks in Turkey that
led to the killing of 15 soldiers.

In messages sent to Turkish President Abdullah Gul and Chief of General Staff
Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, Talat offered his condolences to the families and friends
of 15 soldiers.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1132 gmt 9 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

German minister sees no specific terrorist attack plans

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 10 October

Berlin: German security authorities currently have no indications of specific
attack plans by terrorists. Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (CDU)
[Christian Democratic Union], the chief of the Federal Intelligence Service,
Ernst Uhrlau, and the deputy president of the Federal Office of Criminal
Investigation [BKA], Juergen Stock, emphasized this on Wednesday [10 October] at
the Bundestag's committee of internal affairs.

According to the parliamentary press office, Schaeuble also stressed that at
present, terrorist groups were not in a position logistically or personnel-wise
to develop nuclear weapons independently. However, there is a world-wide
"availability of radioactive sources" so that attacks using so-called dirty
bombs are an "attack option". In 2006 alone, there were "nine radioactive
sources that were lost". Uhrlau added that there had been a "number of signs"
from the periphery of the Al-Qa'idah network that the release of radioactivity
had been taken into consideration. This had become the "subject of pertinent
forums".

In mid-September, Schaeuble had triggered fierce debates with warnings about the
use of dirty bombs. The Bundestag Left group and the Greens again criticized
that in committee on Wednesday [10 October].

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1315 gmt 10 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Lebanese "terror cells" planned attack on internal security forces HQ

LENGTH: 964 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star website on 9
October

[Report by Hani M. Bathish: "Terror Cells 'Planned to Bomb ISF Headquarters;'
Security Forces, Army Crack Down on Weapons Smuggled into Prison for Fatah
al-Islam Fighters"]

Beirut: Two terror cells, one from Iqlim al-Kharroub and the other from Sidon,
rounded up since mid-August had allegedly plotted to blow up the Internal
Security Forces (ISF) headquarters in Achrafieh as well as several Arab and
European embassies and missions, a security source confirmed Monday.

The daily Al-Safir reported that the terror cells were also planning to free
around 200 Fatah al-Islam militants detained at Roumieh Central Prison.

Interior Minister Hassan Sabaa categorically denied what was reported by
Al-Safir as a fabrication Monday, and said the incident at Roumieh was due to
prisoners' refusing to submit to a routine search of some of the cell blocks.
The cabinet meeting Tuesday is due to discuss referring crimes that threaten
state security to the Judicial Council, the highest judicial authority in the
country, whose rulings are not subject to appeal

Despite Sabaa's denial, a security source told The Daily Star on Monday that
unprecedented precautionary measures have been taken around ISF headquarters,
including the addition of concrete blocks around the building and stringent
screening of all visitors. Non-military vehicles were also barred from parking
along the outside perimeter wall of the building.

"Information received indicated that the terror cells were planning to use
around 1 ton of explosives in a truck parked outside the building," the source
said. "This would have had a devastating impact on the surrounding area." The
ISF headquarters is located just 10 meters from a hospital.

As-Safir's report on Monday linked the Iqlim al-Kharroub terror cell with
planning the bombing of ISF headquarters and to previous bomb attacks against
the Spanish and Tanzanian contingents of UNIFIL in south Lebanon, as well as
plans to free Fatah al-Islam prisoners from Roumieh.

On Thursday Lebanese Army Special Forces and ISF units raided the prison cells
and confiscated mobile phones, knives and screwdrivers that had been smuggled
into them inside the facility.

"Their women would deliver iftar meals to the prisoners and ask the guards not
to open the package as they would taint the food since they are not devout
Muslims," the security source said, adding that using the screwdrivers in their
possession, prisoners dismantled closed-circuit cameras. Although Fatah al-Islam
and other Islamic fundamentalist prisoners were dispersed among the general
population into two prison blocks, they managed to stay in contact using mobile
phones.

As-Safir said the intelligence unit uncovered two sleeper terror cells in
August. The first cell was based in Sidon and included Lebanese and Palestinians
and had 50,000 dollars in their possession destined for Fatah al-Islam military
commander Shehab Qadour, known as Abu Hureira. The capture of that cell led
security forces to a second cell in the predominantly Sunni Iqlim al-Kharroub
area in the Chouf.

"The second cell were fundamentalists, they were working to be accepted as
members of Al-Qa'idah, but had yet to prove themselves," the security source
said, denying claims they were part of Al-Qaeda.

As-Safir said investigations into the first terror cell revealed their link to
the attack on the Tanzanian contingent of UNIFIL, while investigations with the
second terror cell uncovered a plot to assist the escape of Fatah al-Islam and
Islamist prisoners from Roumieh.

As-Safir also alleged that the Iqlim Kharroub cell managed to recruit a young
man from the southern Sunni village of Yarin, identified only as M. S. J., who
was asked to infiltrate the ISF. The paper said M. S. J. succeeded with the help
of a local political figure to join the ISF and get assigned to the prison in
Roumieh.

The paper said a member of the Iqlim Kharroub cell, identified only as B. B.,
was M. S. J.'s contact and assigned him specific tasks. B. B. was also tasked
with delivering explosive materials south of the Litani River with the aim of
carrying out attacks against UNIFIL forces. With the arrest of the Iqlim
al-Kharroub cell, B. B. allegedly revealed to investigators the plan to free
Fatah al-Islam prisoners from Roumieh and the fact they had smuggled knives and
cell phones into their cells.

Security forces immediately beefed up security around the Roumieh Prison with
the assistance of Lebanese Army units. The security source denied that the
confiscation of weapons and mobile phones resulted in any injuries among the
prison population as had been reported. Some prisoners tried to break their
phones and flush them down the toilets.

"The families of prisoners who came Thursday for a scheduled visit were to
distract security forces while the prisoners made their escape," the security
source said, adding that families had come from Sidon, Kharroub and Tripoli and
many of the women's faces were covered. "They put the women in the front, as the
soldiers would be reluctant to attack them," the source said.

He said the prisoners' beards and heads were shaved for hygiene purposes,
denying reports it was done to humiliate them.

Separately, Lebanese authorities charged 20 suspected militants, 16 Palestinians
and four Russians, with terrorism Friday for alleged membership in Fatah
al-Islam. The Russian nationals were the first non-Arabs charged by authorities
with being among the Fatah al-Islam fighters whom the Lebanese Army finally
crushed on 2 September, after a three-month siege that destroyed large parts of
the Nahr al-Barid Palestinian refugee camp near the northern city of Tripoli.

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 9 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

'I thought Diana crash was a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON, ROBERT JOBSON

SECTION: C; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 167 words


THE first eye-witness at the Diana inquest told today how he saw the crashed car
and thought there had been a terrorist attack.

Antonio Lopes-Borges arrived at the Pont de l'Alma tunnel moments after the
Princess's Mercedes crashed in August 1997.

He said he could see up to five photographers taking pictures and one making a
call on his mobile phone.

Mr Lopes-Borges, who was with a friend, continued: "There was a guy who looked
like an Egyptian and he told us to go back because we were going to have an
explosion and, as we had already had terrorist attacks in Paris, I thought there
had been a terrorist attack. I was at the beginning of the tunnel so I reversed
my car and parked a bit further outside the tunnel and other cars behind me did
the same thing."

He said he stayed at the scene because they heard "people saying that it was
Lady Diana and Dodi in the crashed car".

Mr Lopes-Borges was giving evidence via a video link from Paris to Court 73 at
the High Court in London. The hearing continues..

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                October 10, 2007

Man admits encouraging terror attacks

LENGTH: 209 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man today admitted soliciting murder in connection with an alleged
plot to organise terrorist training camps across the UK.


A man today admitted soliciting murder in connection with an alleged plot to
organise terrorist training camps across the UK.

Atilla Ahmet, 42, from southeast London, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to
three counts of encouraging others to commit murder.

Five men linked to Ahmet went on trial today at Woolwich crown court for a
number of terrorist offences.

One of the men, Mohammed Hamid, is accused of organising camps attended by the
July 21 bombers, the court heard.

The prosecution claim Mr Hamid was involved in the radicalisation of Muslim
youths for two years from 2004.

David Farrell, prosecuting, said Mr Hamid was arrested at a stall in Oxford
Street, central London, in October 2004.

Also arrested was Muktar Said Ibrahim, the ringleader of the failed July 21
plot, he said.

Mr Farrell said: "Hamid told the police that his name was 'Osama bin London',
and on the way to the police station he said to a police officer, 'I've got a
bomb and I'm going to blow you all up'."

Mr Hamid, 50, of Clapton, east London, Mousa Brown, 41, of Walthamstow, east
London, Kibley da Costa, 24, of West Norwood, southeast London, Mohammed
Al-Figari, 42, of Tottenham, north London, and Kader Ahmed, 20, of Plaistow,
east London, deny a number of terrorism charges.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                October 10, 2007

Man admits encouraging terror attacks

LENGTH: 679 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man today admitted soliciting murder in connection with an alleged
plot to organise terrorist training camps across the UK.


A man today admitted soliciting murder in connection with an alleged plot to
organise terrorist training camps across the UK.

Atilla Ahmet, 42, from south-east London, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to
three counts of encouraging others to commit murder.

Five men linked to Ahmet went on trial today at Woolwich crown court for a
number of terrorist offences. One of the men, Mohammed Hamid, is accused of
organising camps attended by the July 21 bombers, the court heard.

The prosecution claim Mr Hamid was involved in the radicalisation of Muslim
youths for two years from 2004. David Farrell, prosecuting, said Mr Hamid was
arrested at a stall in Oxford Street, central London, in October 2004.

Also arrested was Muktar Said Ibrahim, the ringleader of the failed July 21
plot, Mr Farrell said.

"Hamid told the police that his name was 'Osama bin London', and on the way to
the police station he said to a police officer, 'I've got a bomb and I'm going
to blow you all up'," the lawyer said.

Mr Hamid, 50, of Clapton, East London; Mousa Brown, 41, of Walthamstow, east
London; Kibley da Costa, 24, of West Norwood, south-east London; Mohammed
Al-Figari, 42, of Tottenham, north London; and Kader Ahmed, 20, of Plaistow,
east London, deny a number of terrorism charges.

The court heard that the alleged terrorist training was carried out under the
guise of camping and paint-balling trips in the UK.

Mr Farrell said the trips were designed to "foster within the participants that
they were training for 'Jihad' against the 'Kuffir', or non-believers".

He added: "To put it another way, their statements and actions resulted in the
encouragement, direct and indirect, of the commission of acts of terrorism.

"Indeed, as you will hear, a number of young men who attended camps organised by
Hamid were in fact involved in attempts to kill and seriously injure passengers
on the London transport network on July 2 2005."

The jury was told that Ahmet attend meetings at Mr Hamid's home, where
"aggressive unlawful violence" was preached in the name of Islam.

Mr Farrell said: "At meetings held at Hamid's home address and elsewhere, the
methods of Hamid and Ahmet involved the encouragement of the use of unlawful
violence in the name of Islam."

The court heard that some of those involved in the failed July 21 bombings
attended the camps and paint-balling trips, as well as meetings at Hamid's home.

The jury was shown evidence of phone contact between Mr Hamid and the four
convicted bombers - Ibrahim, Hussein Osman, Ramzi Mohammed and Yassin Omar.

Mr Farrell said: "The prosecution do not suggest that Mr Hamid's role in seeking
to train and influence those who took part in 21/7 was the only training or
influence they received.

"The prosecution's case is that Hamid, assisted by Ahmet, was a recruiter,
groomer and corrupter of young Muslims.

"His purpose was to convert such men to his own fanatical and extreme beliefs
and, having given them such a foundation, thereby enabling them to move on to
join others in the pursuit of 'Jihad' by acts of terrorism."

The court heard that Mr Hamid's east London home was bugged by police from
September 2005 onwards.

Officers were able to listen to meetings held each Friday by Hamid, Ahmet and
others when discussions took place.

In April 2006, an undercover police officer approached Mr Hamid at his Oxford
Street stall and was invited to the Islamic meetings. He was subsequently
invited to camping weekends in the New Forest and to an Islamic school in East
Sussex.

Speaking about the recordings, Mr Farrell said: "What you'll hear is not mere
religious discussion and teaching, but the preaching of aggressive, unlawful
violence - terrorism in the name of Islam.

"Indeed Hamid's partner in terrorist conversions, Atilla Ahmet, has admitted
that that was his intention when he addressed meetings at Hamid's house."

Mr Farrell said when the defendants were arrested in September 2006 their homes
were searched and a "great deal" of extremist material was seized, including CDs
and DVDs containing recordings of murders, beheadings and suicide bombings.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attack drill shocks outlet staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: Swindon Advertiser


SHOP workers, cleaners and security guards have faced the threat of a terrorist
attack at a Swindon shopping centre.

Staff and managers from Swindon Designer Outlet took part in Wiltshire's first
Operation Argus exercise at neighbouring centre Steam in the town yesterday.

The representatives from outlets, as well as the management, security and
cleaning teams, were led through a number of scenarios by officials from the
county's emergency services as well as the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office (NaCTSO).

During the morning-long event, those taking part were shown a video of a
mocked-up terrorist attack on a shopping centre, and in groups were encouraged
to think about the plans in place at the shopping village as a whole and in
their own particular departments.

Designer Outlet facilities manager Nick Poole said: "We have what we call
Operation Quick Step, our evacuation procedure in the event of a bomb going off.

"But after what I've seen during this session, we will be going back to the
drawing board."

He said the participants had seemed shocked at the film, which he also saw for
the first time during the training event.

"I wanted them to think they are not on their own. I can't carry out any plan
without them, and they couldn't do it without the management," said Mr Poole,
who has personal experience of dealing with terrorism having completed six tours
of duty in Northern Ireland with the Army.

"We are all going to be responsible to our customers in an emergency and need to
be able to make it safe for them if an event happens."

Co-ordinating the event, which was run by specialists from Wiltshire Police
connected to NaCTSO, was Sam Weller, Swindon Council's head of civil protection.

He said: "It has been an excellent turnout. It is essential that people have a
greater awareness of things.

"Wiltshire is low risk but we've seen it happen elsewhere in the country - who
would have envisaged an attack on Glasgow airport?"

As well as preparing strategies to help prevent attack and ways of dealing with
the immediate aftermath, workers took part in a second session on how to prepare
their firms against the threat of collapse.

Operation Argus was first launched in January, by the Metropolitan Police.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                October 11, 2007

Man tells of arson attack terror

LENGTH: 322 words


A DISABLED man has been left too scared to leave his own home after a terrifying
arson attack.

The 53-year-old today said he could have died after suffering an angina attack
as he tackled a blaze at his Bispham home.

Local youths are believed have stuffed lit paper through the letter box of the
man's flat on Kincraig Place last night.

The man, too scared to give his name for fear of further attacks, said: "I could
have been killed if it wasn't for my dog waking me up.

"It was very, very scary.

"I'm still scared and suffering and don't want to leave the house."

The man added that the attack was just the latest in a catalogue of trouble he
has had recently.

"Some men came last week to try to sell me some dodgy meat," he said.

"It could stem back to that.

"I alerted the neighbours not to buy any then someone stole my mobility scooter.

"It's a nightmare."

Fire crews were called to the property at 8.30pm and found the man in the
hallway after suffering the attack.

Paramedics treated him at the scene before taking him to Blackpool Victoria
Hospital.

He was kept in overnight before being discharged this morning.

Watch manager Jon Ogden, from Bispham fire station, said: "We're investigating
the incident with the police.

"The man in the flat was asleep when some lit paper was posted through the front
door.

"He was woken up by his dog and went to tackle the flames.

"He managed to put out the fire but suffered an angina attack.

"The man lives on his own and was otherwise was uninjured and neither was his
dog."

Blackpool Police today said they believed a gang of local youths could be behind
last night's attack.

Extra patrols were placed around the area following the incident.

A police spokesman said: "We received a report that lit paper was put through a
letterbox on Kincraig Place.

"The man who suffered an angina attack was taken to BVH as a precaution.

"We requested that passing patrols kept an eye on the man's house during the
night."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

IT LOOKED LIKE TERROR ATTACK;
THE DIANA INQUEST ..SAYS WITNESS IN TUNNEL

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 287 words


A WITNESS to the aftermath of the Diana and Dodi death crash thought their car
had been hit in a terror attack.

Antonio Lopes-Borges yesterday told the Diana inquest he drove into the Pont
d'Alma tunnel just after the fatal crash at 12.25am on August 31, 1997.

He said that when he arrived with his girlfriend, Ana Simao, they saw the
crashed Mercedes, in which the princess and lover Dodi Fayed had been
travelling.

Antonio went on: "There was first the car and there was a guy, he looked like an
Egyptian, and he told us to go back. He told us, can you please go back because
there is going to be an explosion.

"As we had already had terrorist attacks in Paris, I thought it could be a
terrorist attack."

Portuguese national Antonio and Frenchwoman Ana spoke to the High Court via
videolink from Paris with questions and answers translated.

Ana said she saw a small car squeeze between the Mercedes and the pillars down
the central reservation of the tunnel.

She said: "There was a small car, a light-coloured car that was ahead of us. It
drove in between the pillar and the Mercedes."

A white Fiat Uno - thought to have collided with the Mercedes in the entrance to
the tunnel - has never been traced.

Antonio said that just before the crash the Mercedes had pulled up next to them
at traffic lights.

Their Peugeot 206 was cut up as the Mercedes sped off, followed by several other
cars. Antonio added: "They were all at high speed. Everybody was in a hurry."

Ana said that in the tunnel she saw two photographers "on the car", taking
pictures.

Asked if the paparazzi tried to help those inside, Antonio replied: "No."

The jury were back in London after two days following Diana's final footsteps in
Paris.

victoria.ward@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE: Jury bus in tunnel this week; MYSTERY: Princess Diana

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday

Terror attack drill shocks outlet staff

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


SHOP workers, cleaners and security guards have faced the threat of a terrorist
attack at a Swindon shopping centre.

Staff and managers from Swindon Designer Outlet took part in Wiltshire's first
Operation Argus exercise at neighbouring centre Steam in the town yesterday.

The representatives from outlets, as well as the management, security and
cleaning teams, were led through a number of scenarios by officials from the
county's emergency services as well as the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office (NaCTSO).

During the morning-long event, those taking part were shown a video of a
mocked-up terrorist attack on a shopping centre, and in groups were encouraged
to think about the plans in place at the shopping village as a whole and in
their own particular departments.

Designer Outlet facilities manager Nick Poole said: "We have what we call
Operation Quick Step, our evacuation procedure in the event of a bomb going off.

"But after what I've seen during this session, we will be going back to the
drawing board."

He said the participants had seemed shocked at the film, which he also saw for
the first time during the training event.

"I wanted them to think they are not on their own. I can't carry out any plan
without them, and they couldn't do it without the management," said Mr Poole,
who has personal experience of dealing with terrorism having completed six tours
of duty in Northern Ireland with the Army.

"We are all going to be responsible to our customers in an emergency and need to
be able to make it safe for them if an event happens."

Co-ordinating the event, which was run by specialists from Wiltshire Police
connected to NaCTSO, was Sam Weller, Swindon Council's head of civil protection.

He said: "It has been an excellent turnout. It is essential that people have a
greater awareness of things.

"Wiltshire is low risk but we've seen it happen elsewhere in the country - who
would have envisaged an attack on Glasgow airport?"

As well as preparing strategies to help prevent attack and ways of dealing with
the immediate aftermath, workers took part in a second session on how to prepare
their firms against the threat of collapse.

Operation Argus was first launched in January, by the Metropolitan Police.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           October 11, 2007, Thursday
                                 WMail Edition

Concerns over risks of terror attacks on future N-power stations 'being brushed
aside'

BYLINE: Martin Shipton Western Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 552 words


An anti-nuclear campaigner has warned that the UK Government is brushing aside
concerns about the risk of terrorist attacks on nuclear power stations that may
be built after a review of energy policy. In a paper submitted to the official
consultation, Hugh Richards calculates that the quantity of radioactivity stored
at future nuclear power stations would be up to 22 times greater than that
released during the Chernobyl disaster.

Mr Richards, of the Welsh Anti-Nuclear Alliance, says, "The Government appears
to believe that its policy to dispose of radioactive waste in a repository deep
underground at some unknown time in the future assists the case for a new
nuclear programme by removing a burden to future generations and removing
nuclear material from the attention of terrorists.

"But the storage of even larger amounts of nuclear material above ground in a
more vulnerable form vitiates both radioactive waste 'disposal' and any efforts
that are being made to protect the new reactors from attack. A nuclear power
programme would, through the interim storage of spent nuclear fuel on each
reactor site, draw the attention of terrorists to a very large and significant
potential weakness."

The public had been served up platitudes about security rather than being told
the truth, he said.

The paper goes on to examine the amount of radioactive waste that would be
stored temporarily at any of the four kinds of nuclear reactor that could be
constructed if it is confirmed that more nuclear power stations should be built.
Estimates of the quantity of radioactivity stored at each nuclear reactor range
from seven to 22 times the amount of radioactivity discharged from Chernobyl.

This week Pete Wilkinson, a co-founder of both Friends of the Earth and
Greenpeace UK and a member of the government-appointed Committee on Radioactive
Waste Management (CoRWM) wrote to Environment Secretary Hilary Benn expressing
concern that the risk of terrorist attacks was not being properly addressed.

In his letter, Mr Wilkinson said, "The need to review the adequacy of current
storage arrangements in terms of robustness against terrorist attack was
supported unanimously by the security experts CoRWM brought together to review
the options. Experts anticipated a thorough-going examination of current
arrangements which were considered, in part, to be inadequate.

"Particular reference was made to the Sizewell B PWR (Pressurised Water Reactor)
storage ponds (in Suffolk) which currently hold 300 tonnes of spent fuel and
which will, by the time of the plant's closure, hold 1,200 tonnes of this
zirconium-clad material, prone to spontaneous ignition under extreme conditions
and which represents a prime terrorist target.

"This demand for a 9/11-proof review has apparently been sidelined and
overshadowed by the desire for progress on site selection and repository
delivery." The Nuclear Industry Association did not wish to comment on security
matters. A spokesman for the UK Government's Department of Business, Enterprise
and Regulatory Affairs said, "We take the threat of terrorism very seriously.
That is why the security of nuclear power stations is regulated by the Office
for Civil Nuclear Security. Working closely with the security services, the
Office makes sure appropriate measures are taken and reviewed."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 12, 2007

Secret burial for terror attack man

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


GLASGOW Airport terrorist Kafeel Ahmed has been buried in a secret location.

The 27-year-old, from India, died in hospital in August, five weeks after he
rammed his blazing Jeep into the terminal building.

The exact location of his grave has not been revealed but reports today said it
was in Glasgow.

Muslims are normally buried near the place of their death.

Ahmed was left in a coma with 90-per cent burns following the airport attack on
June 30.

Three doctors will stand trial for allegedly plotting car bomb attacks in
Glasgow and London.

Mohammed Jamil Asha, 27, Bilal Abdullah, 28, and Sabeel Ahmed, 26, have been
charged with conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: NORTH EAST

                      October 12, 2007 Friday 4:57 PM BST

PRISONER CHARGED WITH ATTACK ON TERRORIST

LENGTH: 269 words


A prisoner at a County Durham jail has been charged with an attack on an
al-Qaeda terrorist who is also behind bars.

The 22-year-old inmate is accused of assaulting Dhiren Barot, the leader of a
British-based terrorist cell that plotted to murder thousands of people with
dirty bombs.

Barot's lawyer has claimed the convicted terrorist had boiling oil thrown over
him during the attack in the high security Frankland Prison.

The unnamed prisoner faces charges of wounding and assault occasioning actual
bodily harm following the incident on July 6. He will appear in court later this
month.

After the alleged attack, which left Barot, 35, scarred for life, a news
blackout was imposed to protect medical staff from possible attack while he was
treated at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

A Durham Police spokesman said: ``A prison inmate from Sunderland has been
charged with an assault at Durham's top security Frankland Jail this year.

``The victim, a 35-year-old Category A prisoner, suffered burns to his body and
face in the alleged attack on July 6.

``He was treated for several days at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary before
being readmitted to the prison.

``Police inquiries have been taking place since then and detectives from Durham
have now charged a 22-year-old from Sunderland with wounding and assault
occasioning actual bodily harm. He is due to appear before magistrates at
Peterlee on October 23.''

Barot was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning to
plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America. end

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: NRE


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                      October 12, 2007 Friday 4:57 PM BST

PRISONER CHARGED WITH ATTACK ON TERRORIST

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 269 words


A prisoner at a County Durham jail has been charged with an attack on an
al-Qaeda terrorist who is also behind bars.

The 22-year-old inmate is accused of assaulting Dhiren Barot, the leader of a
British-based terrorist cell that plotted to murder thousands of people with
dirty bombs.

Barot's lawyer has claimed the convicted terrorist had boiling oil thrown over
him during the attack in the high security Frankland Prison.

The unnamed prisoner faces charges of wounding and assault occasioning actual
bodily harm following the incident on July 6. He will appear in court later this
month.

After the alleged attack, which left Barot, 35, scarred for life, a news
blackout was imposed to protect medical staff from possible attack while he was
treated at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

A Durham Police spokesman said: ``A prison inmate from Sunderland has been
charged with an assault at Durham's top security Frankland Jail this year.

``The victim, a 35-year-old Category A prisoner, suffered burns to his body and
face in the alleged attack on July 6.

``He was treated for several days at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary before
being readmitted to the prison.

``Police inquiries have been taking place since then and detectives from Durham
have now charged a 22-year-old from Sunderland with wounding and assault
occasioning actual bodily harm. He is due to appear before magistrates at
Peterlee on October 23.''

Barot was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning to
plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America. end

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 12, 2007 Friday 4:26 PM BST

PRISONER CHARGED WITH ATTACK ON TERRORIST

BYLINE: Rod Minchin, PA

LENGTH: 93 words


A prisoner was charged today with an attack on a jailed al Qaida terrorist.

The 22-year-old inmate is accused of assaulting Dhiren Barot, the leader of a
British-based terrorist cell that plotted to murder thousands of people with
dirty bombs.

Barot's lawyer has claimed the convicted terrorist had boiling oil thrown over
him during the attack in the high security Frankland Prison in County Durham.

The unnamed prisoner faces charges of wounding and assault occasioning actual
bodily harm following the incident on July 6. He will appear in court later this
month.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 12, 2007 Friday 4:26 PM BST

PRISONER CHARGED WITH ATTACK ON TERRORIST

BYLINE: Rod Minchin, PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A prisoner was charged today with an attack on a jailed al Qaida terrorist.

The 22-year-old inmate is accused of assaulting Dhiren Barot, the leader of a
British-based terrorist cell that plotted to murder thousands of people with
dirty bombs.

Barot's lawyer has claimed the convicted terrorist had boiling oil thrown over
him during the attack in the high security Frankland Prison in County Durham.

The unnamed prisoner faces charges of wounding and assault occasioning actual
bodily harm following the incident on July 6. He will appear in court later this
month.

After the alleged attack, which left Barot, 35, scarred for life, a news
blackout was imposed to protect medical staff from possible attack while he was
treated at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

A Durham Police spokesman said today in a statement: ``A prison inmate from
Sunderland has been charged with an assault at Durham's top security Frankland
Jail this year.

``The victim, a 35-year-old Category A prisoner, suffered burns to his body and
face in the alleged attack on July 6.

``He was treated for several days at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary before
being readmitted to the prison.

``Police inquiries have been taking place since then and this morning detectives
from Durham charged a 22-year-old from Sunderland with wounding and assault
occasioning actual bodily harm.

``He is due to appear before magistrates at Peterlee on October 23.''

Barot was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning to
plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America.

The al Qaida mastermind had been moved to Frankland from Belmarsh jail, south
east London, after fears for his safety.

Barot was arrested in August 2004 and accused of conspiracy to murder.

He admitted planning to bomb several targets including the New York Stock
Exchange, the International Monetary Fund HQ, and the World Bank.

Barot, who recruited other bomb plotters, was sentenced to life in prison last
November. It was recommended he serve 40 years but that was cut to 30 years on
appeal in May.

Barot was born in India then moved to Kenya with his family. They came to
England in 1973 and his banker father had to work in a factory to support them.

Hindu Barot converted to Islam aged 20. He later travelled to Pakistan for al
Qaida training and funding.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

AMELIE KILLER'S TRAIL OF TERROR;
2 MURDERS, 3 ATTACKS BY BOUNCER LEVI BELLFIELD, COURT TOLD

BYLINE: BY ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 455 words


A BOUNCER who battered to death student Amelie Delagrange as she walked home had
already murdered another teenage girl and attacked three young women, a jury was
told yesterday.

Levi Bellfield, 39, allegedly targeted bus stops and routes late at night
searching for lone women victims. Then he stalked and attacked them once they
got off the bus.

Prosecutor Brian Altman said the lighting inside the buses allowed Bellfield to
get a good look at the passengers and choose suitable prey in advance as he sat
in his car.

He added: "These women were not chance victims of a street attacker. These women
were targeted victims of a predatory man."

French student Amelie, 22, was pounced on after she missed her stop as she came
home from a night out with friends, the court heard.

When Amelie, who was here to improve her English, got off the bus she had to
walk back towards her house across a darkened Twickenham Green, South West
London.

Powerfully-built Bellfield allegedly grabbed her from behind and battered her
over the head with a blunt instrument.

Mr Altman said Bellfield, a former wheel clamper, had murdered teenager Marsha
McDonnell 18 months earlier in similar circumstances.

Marsha got off a bus in Hampton, again after a night out with friends, and was
walking home when she too was battered over the head.

Mr Altman said: "She died from severe head injuries. She was only 19. It was
within moments of alighting from that bus that she was, you can only say,
senselessly and violently attacked within sight of home."

The Old Bailey was told Bellfield had previously tried to drag 17-year-old
hairdresser Anna Maria Rennie into his car after grabbing her in a bear-hug late
at night in Twickenham.

Slightly-built Anna, who had been walking along weeping after a row with her
boyfriend, managed to kick and squirm free, then fled.

Ten months after Marsha's murder, Bellfield allegedly attacked 33-year-old Irma
Dragoshi at a bus stop, smashing her over the head and attempting to snatch her
handbag.

And less than three months before killing Amelie, he tried to run down Kate
Sheedy, 18, in Isleworth.

Mr Altman told the jury the attacks all had marked similarities - and all had
taken place within a relatively small sector of South West London.

He added: "All the attacks show similar features from which you will see a
pattern emerge - the assailant using his vehicle in the hours of darkness to
locate and target lone women.

"When you examine all the direct and circumstantial evidence related to these
offences, the chances that they were committed by someone other than Bellfield
are so fanciful that you can reject them."

Bellfield, of West Drayton, denies murder, attempted murder and kidnap. The
trial continues.

a.shaw@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BATTERED: Student Amelie Delagrange; ATTACKS IN SOUTH-WEST LONDON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                October 13, 2007

Terrorist attack charge

LENGTH: 343  words


A SUNDERLAND man has been charged with the assault in prison of an al-Qaida
terrorist.

Dhiren Barot, the leader of a British-based terrorist cell that plotted to
murder thousands of people with radioactive bombs, was serving a life sentence
in Durham's Frankland Prison when he was allegedly attacked.

Police are refusing to name the prisoner accused of the attack, but officers
have confirmed a 22-year-old man has been charged with unlawful wounding and
assault.

"The charges relate to an incident in the top-security Frankland Jail on July
16," said a Durham Police spokesman. "During the incident, a 35-year-old
prisoner was injured.

"A 22-year-old man will appear before Peterlee Magistrates on October 23 in
connection with that alleged assault."

At the time, Barot's lawyer, Mudassar Arani, claimed her client first had
boiling water thrown at him and then a steaming mixture of sugar and water
poured over his head.

The prison authorities confirmed Barot was treated at the Royal Victoria
Infirmary in Newcastle before being returned to his cell.

Other prisoners involved in an attack would routinely be dispersed to other
jails around the country and it is likely the 22-year-old Sunderland man will
make his first court appearance via video link.

Barot, 35, from London, was once described by the security services as the
second-most dangerous man in Britain, after Jordanian preacher Abu Qatada.

The Indian-born convert to Islam plotted to drive limousines packed with
explosives into the New York Stock Exchange, flood the London Underground, and
he considered using radioactive "dirty" bombs.

He was jailed for life in November, last year, and spent the first part of his
sentence at Belmarsh Prison in south east London.

Barot was moved to Frankland earlier this year because of concerns for his
safety at Belmarsh.

Frankland is a top security prison, holding prisoners who are serving sentences
of at least four years.

Among the 730 inmates is Omar Khyam, ringleader of the al Qaida cell that
plotted to blow up the giant Bluewater shopping complex in Kent.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday

India to raise latest terror attacks concerns with Pakistan

LENGTH: 498 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 14 October: The Ajmer dargah [shrine] blast along with some other
recent terror attacks, including the one in Hyderabad, is likely to figure high
on the agenda of anti-terror talks between India and Pakistan here next week.

Official sources said New Delhi would raise its concerns over the spate in
terrorist activities, the latest being the blast in Ajmer dargah on Thursday [12
October] in which two persons were killed and 17 others injured.

During a visit to Ajmer, Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil had Saturday
suggested cross-border links to the blast that rocked the Sufi [Islamic sect]
shrine.

Intelligence officials suspect Harkat-ul-Jehadi Islami (HuJI) may have been
supported by Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in the Ajmer blast as both are strongly
opposed to the Sufism.

HuJI operative Shahid Bilal, who is suspected to be the mastermind behind a
series of terror attacks in Hyderabad, emerged the prime suspect of the Ajmer
incident also as the modus operandi was similar to that used in Mecca Masjid
blast in Andhra Pradesh capital in May this year.

Since New Delhi's queries to Islamabad on the last few terrorist strikes have
remained unanswered, the second round of Indo-Pakistan Joint Anti-Terror
Mechanism will provide another opportunity for India to raise incidents like the
Mecca Masjid blasts in Hyderabad, Samjhauta Express explosion and attacks in
Varanasi and Mumbai for discussions, sources said.

The first round of anti-terror talks was held in March and New Delhi felt it was
pointless to continue with the mechanism if its concerns were not addressed.

The meeting was a follow-up to the decision taken by Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh and Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf in Havana last year to hold
quarterly parleys.

But, this time too India might furnish details of these incidents to Pakistan
all over again, the sources said.

The Union Home Ministry said terrorist infrastructure in Pakistan and
Pakistan-occupied Kashmir [Pakistan administered Kashmir] continued to be used
by Pakistan-based and ISI-sponsored outfits [groups] like JeM, LiT
[Lashkar-i-Toiba] and Al-Badr.

The MHA [Ministry of Home Affairs] said the current strategy of these groups is
to maintain continuous flow of finances to sustain their network, target vital
installations and economic infrastructure, recruit and train local modules and
attack soft targets like markets, mass transit systems, places of worship and
congregations.

The strategy of the outfits also include creating communal tensions to drive a
wedge between communities and supply hardware through land and sea routes, said
the sources, adding that the Ajmer terror strike was aimed at disturbing
communal harmony.

The home minister, while condemning the Ajmer incident, saw in the blast the
hands of elements inimical to the country and said those who want to cause
communal discord should not be allowed to succeed.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0658gmt 14 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday

Six men killed in terror bombing attack in cinema

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 190 words


At Least six people were killed and 30 others injured when a bomb ripped through
a packed cinema in India.

The blast in Ludhiana, an industrial town in Punjab state, was the second
apparent terror attack in a week in northern India.

Two people were killed days earlier in the bombing of a Moslem shrine in the
neighbouring state of Rajasthan and a third died yesterday from his injuries.

Yesterday's attack occurred on one of the holiest days of the Moslem calendar -
Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan.

The Shringar cinema was packed when the blast happened at around 8.50pm in one
of its three theatres.

Some 600 people were watching a recently released Bollywood romance, Janan Janam
Ke Saath, or Together Through Several Lifetimes.

A police official said the explosion was caused by a single bomb which appeared
to have been placed in the first three rows of seats.

The blast scattered body parts across the theatre floor and left a large crater.

Six men were killed - two in the blast and four who later from their injuries,
he said. At least 30 others were wounded, he said.

Officials warned the death toll could rise.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 16, 2007, Tuesday

Villagers tell of terror after Turkey launches rocket attack across border

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes in the Matin Mountains

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 886 words


* Assault near homes deepest yet into Iraq

* 'They are shelling us because we are Kurds'

The Turkish rockets streaked out of the night sky and slammed into the
mountainside next to a village in northern Iraq, setting fire to a swath of
grassland and forcing families to dive for cover.

"It was terrifying. All the children were crying," said Jafar Bahry Kaseem, 56,
whose one-storey stone house was one of the closest to the surprise attack on
Sunday night, which lasted for about 45 minutes.

"We are very frightened that this village will be shelled at any time. If this
continues then we will be forced to leave our home," said the farmer, dressed in
traditional Kurdish fatigues with a green scarf wrapped around his head, as he
surveyed the burnt mountainside about 50 metres from his front door.

"The Government should do something," he told The Times yesterday, voicing a
sentiment expressed by many in Anishky, a Kurdish village in the Matin
Mountains.

Ankara is considering mounting a big assault in the mountains of Iraq's
semi-autonomous Kurdish region to crush Kurdish rebels who are seeking their own
homeland in eastern Turkey.

Turkish soldiers are already carrying out low-level shelling operations across
the border, hoping to hit the mountain camps of the Kurdish Workers' Party
(PKK).

Sunday's assault, however, was the deepest into Iraqi territory -affecting Iraqi
Kurds who are not members of the PKK -and prompted a sharp reaction from the
Kurdish regional government.

"If our people are displaced they lose their cattle, their sheep and their farms
.

. . We denounce these acts," said Jamal Abdullah, the regional government's
spokesman.

"We are very worried about this increase of aggression and we are very sorry
that Turkey is doing this. Our position is that this is Iraqi sovereignty, not
just Kurdish sovereignty. It is also an issue for the (US-led) coalition
forces," he said.

The spokesman emphasised that the Kurdish administration did not support the
PKK, which has its roots in Turkey, not Iraq.

"The PKK problem is something between Turkey and its people. We are not involved
in this politically, militarily or emotionally," he said, while declining to
comment on what the authorities plan to do in the event of a large-scale Turkish
assault.

On the ground in Anishky -one of about eight villages in the Amedi district that
were affected by Sunday's attacks -emotions were running high. "Turkey is not
shelling us because of the PKK, it is shelling us because we are Kurds, we are
all the same to them," said Agid Fermus, 30, a father of five and a member of
the Peshmerga security force that protects northern Iraq.

"We hope that Turkey will understand that we have nothing to do with the PKK. We
are not against Turkey. We do not interfere in their business," Mr Fermus said.

Huddled on a rocky ledge below a large patch of burnt moutainside, which was
still giving off heat, the village's sheep were worst affected by the onslaught.

A wooden pen where the animals are kept during the winter was razed, as well as
much of the grass they eat.

In contrast, the local children seemed to have recovered from their fear of the
previous night and were playing with scraps of shrapnel, giggling as they
scrambled in and out of a hole in the ground left by one of about 20 rockets
that landed in the area.

"Look at these," said Buya Showkat, a 13-year-old boy, holding out a handful of
ball bearings.

The Mayor of Anishky, surveying his village of about 2,300 people, which sits
off a winding road that leads up the Matin Mountains, just south of the Turkish
border, gave a tired sigh. "In 15 years the Kurdish regional government has
always protected this area and we never thought that Turkey would come and
disturb our safety," Anderias Shabo Barhe, 72, said.

He had slim hopes that the central Government in Baghdad would jump to the
Kurdish people's aid and send in the Iraqi Army to protect the land from a
possible Turkish invasion.

"It is a contradiction. The Iraqi Government wants us to be the same country but
at the same time it does not want to protect us," he said. "Let us be
independent and then we can protect ourselves against our enemies.

"What does it mean to be Iraqi?" he asked.

Baghdad is eager to keep Iraq unified under one government, fearing that the
Kurdish north and the Shia south -both oil-rich regions with great long-term
economic potential -could break away, leaving the centre of the country weak and
without vital natural resources.

Iraq and the United States oppose any large-scale incursion by Turkey to take on
the PKK, which Ankara blames for the deaths of more than 30,000 people since the
group began its armed struggle for an ethnic homeland in 1984.

They fear that such a move would destabilise one of the safest regions in Iraq.

Wahil, 49, a mechanic living in Anishky with his wife and three children, also
hoped that there would be no escalation in the violence.

His is one of 27 families to flee to the village from Baghdad and the rest of
Iraq, outside the Kurdish region, to escape the daily bombs and sectarian
killings.

"Last night's shelling is something that happened once and we hope that it will
not be repeated," he said, adding with a shrug: "We are from Baghdad so we are
used to such attacks."

* For updates on the cross-border tensions timesonline.co.uk/iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evesham Journal

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

Belgrade knife attack terror

BYLINE: Tony Donnelly

SECTION: LATEST

LENGTH: 432 words


A NIGHT out in Belgrade ended in terror when a Pershore man and his friend were
attacked by two men, one of them wielding a knife.

Mathew Martin said he had been kicked and beaten while his friend, Australian
John Ogden, was stabbed in the chest and neck and then five times in the back as
he fled for his life.

Mathew, 34, a journalist with the Evesham Journal, suffered a dislocated
shoulder and severe bruising in the unprovoked attack.

He said the incident happened in the early hours of Saturday October 6 as the
two men and other friends left one club and headed for another during a night
out in the Serbian capital.

"They seemed to cut us off from the rest of the group and just started on us
without any warning," he said. "One of them had a knife and stabbed John in the
neck and the ribs. He then stabbed him five more times in the back as John ran
away.

"He eventually flagged down a car which took him straight to hospital."

Meanwhile, he said, the other man launched a savage assault on him, punching him
to the ground where he was beaten and kicked.

"The other man came back and joined the one who was attacking me but I managed
to run away. I got lost but eventually made my way back to where we were
staying. Then I went to the hospital to find out how John was but by that time
they were already operating on him."

John, who works as a carpenter in London, has been recuperating at Mathew's home
in Station Road, Pershore.

He said: "The five days in hospital were horrific. Particularly because of the
language barrier I didn't know exactly what had happened to me or what treatment
I had been given. I was slipping in and out of consciousness all the time.

"The nurses were very uncaring, particularly to the elderly people in my ward
who were obviously dying."

Mathew said that as soon as John was given clearance to fly, the two men booked
a flight for the following day,.

The motive for the attack remained a mystery. "They did not try to steal
anything and we think they marked us out at the club when they heard us speaking
English."

"I felt that there was a simmering resentment towards foreigners in Serbia.
There were still bombed buildings in Belgrade from the NATO attacks of 1999 and
the police told me they might have been bomb crazy' or refugees from another
part of the former Jugoslavia."

The two men met when both were travelling in South America where Mathew lived
for more than a year.

"We are both experienced travellers and have visited some of the most dangerous
places in the world without any hint of trouble," Mathew said. "This was a
completely unprovoked attack."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evesham Journal

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

Belgrade knife attack terror

BYLINE: Tony Donnelly

SECTION: LATEST (EVE NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 432 words


A NIGHT out in Belgrade ended in terror when a Pershore man and his friend were
attacked by two men, one of them wielding a knife.

Mathew Martin said he had been kicked and beaten while his friend, Australian
John Ogden, was stabbed in the chest and neck and then five times in the back as
he fled for his life.

Mathew, 34, a journalist with the Evesham Journal, suffered a dislocated
shoulder and severe bruising in the unprovoked attack.

He said the incident happened in the early hours of Saturday October 6 as the
two men and other friends left one club and headed for another during a night
out in the Serbian capital.

"They seemed to cut us off from the rest of the group and just started on us
without any warning," he said. "One of them had a knife and stabbed John in the
neck and the ribs. He then stabbed him five more times in the back as John ran
away.

"He eventually flagged down a car which took him straight to hospital."

Meanwhile, he said, the other man launched a savage assault on him, punching him
to the ground where he was beaten and kicked.

"The other man came back and joined the one who was attacking me but I managed
to run away. I got lost but eventually made my way back to where we were
staying. Then I went to the hospital to find out how John was but by that time
they were already operating on him."

John, who works as a carpenter in London, has been recuperating at Mathew's home
in Station Road, Pershore.

He said: "The five days in hospital were horrific. Particularly because of the
language barrier I didn't know exactly what had happened to me or what treatment
I had been given. I was slipping in and out of consciousness all the time.

"The nurses were very uncaring, particularly to the elderly people in my ward
who were obviously dying."

Mathew said that as soon as John was given clearance to fly, the two men booked
a flight for the following day,.

The motive for the attack remained a mystery. "They did not try to steal
anything and we think they marked us out at the club when they heard us speaking
English."

"I felt that there was a simmering resentment towards foreigners in Serbia.
There were still bombed buildings in Belgrade from the NATO attacks of 1999 and
the police told me they might have been bomb crazy' or refugees from another
part of the former Jugoslavia."

The two men met when both were travelling in South America where Mathew lived
for more than a year.

"We are both experienced travellers and have visited some of the most dangerous
places in the world without any hint of trouble," Mathew said. "This was a
completely unprovoked attack."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

90 OFFICERS TO LIAISE WITH MI5;
PSNI UNIT JOIN FIGHT AGAINST TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY ALAN ERWIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 287 words


A CRACK PSNI squad will work with MI5 on national security in Northern Ireland,
it was revealed yesterday.

Up to 90 police officers will be involved in the new unit.

It will work with the intelligence service as it takes over counter-terrorism
responsibilities here for the first time.

None will be seconded but they will work within the Crime Liaison Intelligence
Office, established by the PSNI as part of the new arrangements.

A high-ranking police officer is also to be appointed to ensure all information
relevant to serious crime inquiries is passed to the force.

Details emerged as the PSNI published its memorandum of understanding with the
Security Service. This accord contains five key principles which Chief Constable
Sir Hugh Orde identified as crucial to the effective operation of the new
arrangements.

Guaranteeing the PSNI will get to see all intelligence relating to terrorism in
Northern Ireland, be kept informed of all relevant operations and run the vast
majority of informants, the agreement was critical to the transfer of powers.
With MI5 opening a pounds 20million office at Holywood, Co Down, doubts remain
among nationalists and republicans over how accountable it is.

But Sir Hugh and Assistant Chief Constable Peter Sheridan, head of Crime
Operations, are satisfied with the guarantees received.

The PSNI stressed that alongside the main memorandum, up to a dozen service
level agreements on operational issues have also been completed.

One source said the Policing Board has also been kept fully informed with the
details scrutinised by the authority's human rights advisers.

He added: "We are happy about the accountability of any police officer working
in one of these liaison roles."

ulster@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I SPY: New MI5 HQ in Holywood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS


              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

Belgrade knife attack terror

BYLINE: Tony Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: Evesham Journal


A NIGHT out in Belgrade ended in terror when a Pershore man and his friend were
attacked by two men, one of them wielding a knife.

Mathew Martin said he had been kicked and beaten while his friend, Australian
John Ogden, was stabbed in the chest and neck and then five times in the back as
he fled for his life.

Mathew, 34, a journalist with the Evesham Journal, suffered a dislocated
shoulder and severe bruising in the unprovoked attack.

He said the incident happened in the early hours of Saturday October 6 as the
two men and other friends left one club and headed for another during a night
out in the Serbian capital.

"They seemed to cut us off from the rest of the group and just started on us
without any warning," he said. "One of them had a knife and stabbed John in the
neck and the ribs. He then stabbed him five more times in the back as John ran
away.

"He eventually flagged down a car which took him straight to hospital."

Meanwhile, he said, the other man launched a savage assault on him, punching him
to the ground where he was beaten and kicked.

"The other man came back and joined the one who was attacking me but I managed
to run away. I got lost but eventually made my way back to where we were
staying. Then I went to the hospital to find out how John was but by that time
they were already operating on him."

John, who works as a carpenter in London, has been recuperating at Mathew's home
in Station Road, Pershore.

He said: "The five days in hospital were horrific. Particularly because of the
language barrier I didn't know exactly what had happened to me or what treatment
I had been given. I was slipping in and out of consciousness all the time.

"The nurses were very uncaring, particularly to the elderly people in my ward
who were obviously dying."

Mathew said that as soon as John was given clearance to fly, the two men booked
a flight for the following day,.

The motive for the attack remained a mystery. "They did not try to steal
anything and we think they marked us out at the club when they heard us speaking
English."

"I felt that there was a simmering resentment towards foreigners in Serbia.
There were still bombed buildings in Belgrade from the NATO attacks of 1999 and
the police told me they might have been bomb crazy' or refugees from another
part of the former Jugoslavia."

The two men met when both were travelling in South America where Mathew lived
for more than a year.

"We are both experienced travellers and have visited some of the most dangerous
places in the world without any hint of trouble," Mathew said. "This was a
completely unprovoked attack."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           October 20, 2007 Saturday

PM horrified at terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 438 words


Prime Minister Gordon Brown yesterday sent a message of support to Pakistan
after Thursday night's bomb attack targeting Benazir Bhutto.

More than 130 people died and hundreds more were injured in the double suicide
bomb blast during a procession marking Ms Bhutto's return home to Karachi after
eight years in exile.

The attack has been blamed on al Qaida and the Taliban.

Mr Brown branded the violence "horrific" and sent his condolences.

A hotline was set up for people in the UK concerned about relatives and friends
in Karachi.

Speaking from the EU summit in Lisbon, Mr Brown said: "The message must go out
that we will not tolerate this terrorist violence.

"We will give support to the Pakistani authorities in dealing with those
terrorists who have caused the bombings and we will support, at all times, the
attempts by the Pakistani people to establish a democracy."

In a message sent to Pakistan's president Pervez Musharraf, he said he was
"deeply shocked".

A defiant Ms Bhutto, who was not hurt when the two bombs exploded within yards
of her convoy, vowed to continue her campaign to become prime minister of
Pakistan for the third time.

Speaking just hours after the attack, she said: "We are prepared to risk our
lives but we are not prepared to surrender."

The bombing, which came within hours of her return, was not an attack on her but
on democracy and the unity and integrity of Pakistan, she said.

Officials at Karachi hospitals reported 136 dead and about 250 wounded -
somewhat more than the death toll of 113, including 20 policemen, reported by
police.

Ms Bhutto has earned the enmity of fundamentalist groups in Pakistan because of
her support for the US-led war on terror.

But one of Mehsud's associates in the lawless north west of Pakistan denied
Taliban involvement, saying: "The government's secret agencies are involved in
it. This was an effort to provoke common people and create hatred against the
Taliban."

A spokesman for Pervez Musharraf said he had expressed his shock and profound
grief in a phone call to Ms Bhutto, who was able to return from exile thanks to
an amnesty he offered in relation to corruption charges brought in 1999.

"They agreed that there was a need for the nation to unite to rid the country of
this menace of suicide bombings, terrorism and extremism," the spokesman added.

A Plaid Cymru member of the Welsh Assembly who travelled to Karachi with Ms
Bhutto described the terrible scenes.

Mohammad Asghar said: "I was not more than 35 yards behind Benazir Bhutto's
vehicle in another vehicle  and there was one blast."

He added: "It was dreadful. I have never been through anything like this."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERRORIST 'IN PRISON OIL ATTACK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 120 words


THE jailed mastermind of the attempted 21/7 terror strikes was quizzed yesterday
over a boiling oil attack on another inmate.

Life-termer Omar Khyam, 25, allegedly doused armed robber Malcolm Cruddas with
hot fat, severely scalding his head and upper body.

Cruddas, 32, was in hospital under police guard following the attack - the
second of its kind at Frankland jail, Durham.

In July, British-based terrorist Dhiren Barot - jailed over a dirty bomb plot -
was scalded and scarred for life by hot oil.

Relatives of Cruddas, jailed in 1991 for two robberies, believe it was a revenge
attack.

Mum Eleanor said: "Malcolm was having dinner when he had hot fat thrown on his
back. He said that it was a terrorist who wanted moving."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                October 20, 2007

Community condemns terrorist attack

LENGTH: 250  words


THE city's Pakistani community has condemned a terrorist attack which killed at
least 130 people in the country's capital.

The victims were among a 200,000-strong rally who had gathered in Karachi to
celebrate the homecoming of former Pakistani prime minister Benazir Bhutto, on
Thursday.

Today, chairman of the Pakistani Community Association Ghulam Shabbir said:
"Pakistanis in Peterborough were shocked when they heard this dreadful news and
we condemn this sort of violence, especially when it involves killing innocent
people.

"It enforces the problems of sectarian killings which have been going on in
Pakistan for quite some time. This was a very high profile case, and media
coverage has brought what is happening to the attention of the whole world.

"Many of the people killed had a poor background, and in a lot of cases they
will have been the bread winners of their families."

Ms Bhutto, who was travelling from the city's airport to a celebration in honour
of her homecoming after eight years in self-imposed exile, was unhurt in the
attack.

Before her return, Islamist groups, including pro-Taleban militants, promised to
attack Ms Bhutto on her return, after she pledged to confront those operating in
the northern tribal areas bordering Afghanistan.

Mr Shabbir added: "She was right to come back because this is the way for
Pakistan to go forward. In such a huge crowd the security forces could not have
done any more."

There are thought to be about 15,000 Pakistanis living in Peterborough.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

Filipino military chief says Makati blast "terrorist" attack, blames insurgents

LENGTH: 1337 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Daily Tribune website on
21 October

[Report by Gina Peralta-Elorde, Sherwin C. Olaes AFP and Tribune wires: "Esperon
claims Glorietta blast terrorist attack; GMA, PNP admit C4 used in blast, but
absolve AFP"]

Police yesterday confirmed Tribune's Saturday report that military explosives of
the C4 type were used in a huge bomb blast at the Glorietta 2 mall that killed
nine and left 113 injured.

Traces of a main component of the powerful C4 military grade plastic explosive
were found at the Glorietta mall in Makati City, a chemist from the Philippine
National Police (PNP) Crime laboratory informed President Arroyo, military and
police officials during a briefing yesterday at Camp Crame in Quezon City.

Evidence collected from Friday's Glorietta mall blast indicates that the bomb
"contained RDX, the main chemical component of C4," the chemist said.

C4 explosive is only used by the military.

Tribune sources said C4 is generally used by the Armed Forces of the
Philippines' SWAG teams and the PNP's Special Action Forces (SAF).

But even as there was a police admission of the possibility of military
involvement in the bomb blast, both Mrs Arroyo and AFP Chief of Staff Gen.
Hermogenes Esperon, Jr quickly absolved the military and instead pointed the
finger at various rebel groups such as the Abu Sayyaf, the communists, rightists
or extremist elements, with Esperon saying the Makati bomb blast was a terrorist
attack.

He denied allegations that soldiers were behind the attack, but said he would
open the military to a police investigation.

While pointing to different rebel groups and absolving the military, however,
Esperon failed to explain how the Abu Sayyaf or the communists, or the rightists
or extremists could possibly have obtained the C4, even it is only the military
that can purchase C4 explosives.

"It is a terrorist attack. Whoever is the perpetrator, they are terrorizing the
people, but we have not identified them yet," the military chief was quoted as
saying.

The Abu Sayyaf issued a denial, claiming its rebels had no hand in the bombing,
pointing out that it was impossible for the Abu Sayyaf to even move around as
Marines were all over the place.

The Communist leaders also issued a denial yesterday.

Aboveground leftists, for their part, pointed the finger at Mrs Arroyo and her
military as being behind the bombing, saying that bombs were made to go off to
divert the attention of the public from the bribery and corruption scandals
rocking her government.

No group has claimed responsibility for the blast, which came weeks after
military intelligence foiled an alleged plot by Al-Qa'idah-linked Abu Sayyaf
Islamic militants to bomb the southern port city of Zamboanga.

But a person claiming to be a spokesman of another terrorist group, the Rajah
Sulaiman Group, also yesterday claimed responsibility for the Glorietta bomb
attack, but the authenticity of his statement is doubted.

Senior Supt. Bert Ferro, who heads the police bomb data centre, said samples
taken from the site leads him to "presume that those are of military ordinance
components."

A chemist from the centre told Mrs Arroyo that it was possible that more samples
were being collected from the site, but "at this point, that is what we have."

PNP Director-General Avelino Razon said the government was putting up a P2
million reward for any information leading to arrests.

He also announced that he has already ordered the PNP's anti-terror group Task
Force Sanlahi to be "on the lookout" for terrorism suspects.

"We have this watch list of terrorists and directed Task Force Sanlahi to be on
the lookout and arrest them if they are in the area."

"We also requested different security agencies to instruct security guards to be
more deliberate in the conduct of their search of bags and packages entering
these places," he added.

National Capital Region Police Office chief Geary Barias said they have also
started reviewing closed-circuit TV footage of the area where a blast occurred
Friday afternoon.

It was also claimed that the bomb exploded from the basement of the mall.

Checkpoints have been in place since Friday night.

National Security Adviser Norberto Gonzales said authorities were also looking
at the Abu Sayyaf as possible suspects, noting that the group may have carried
it out as part of their campaign to attract funding from international terrorist
groups.

Critics expect the PNP to produce, in a few days, several recycled bomb suspects
and parade them before the public, to claim that the case is solved.

The 12,000-strong Moro Islamic Liberation Front said Saturday it is "prepared to
gather intelligence for the Philippine authorities if asked to do so," spokesman
Eid Kabalu told Agence France Press.

"We would like to help out if asked. This could help the military at least
eliminate some groups from their list of suspects," he said, adding that the
offer was being made as a "sincere gesture" that could also help revive stalled
peace talks.

Reports said officials from the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) were
helping Philippine police in the probe.

Throughout the night bomb experts sifted through blast debris trying to find
clues as to what sort of bomb was used.

The mall remained sealed Saturday, with a cordon of policemen guarding its
perimeter.

Razon said the bomb was apparently left at a delivery bag near a popular Chinese
restaurant at the mall shortly after lunch, but the data centre officials said
the bomb came from the basement.

He said investigators were also reviewing closed circuit television cameras and
interviewing survivors and witnesses.

Security in all malls, bus and train stations, as well as sea and airports have
been intensified, Razon said, with elite police commandos patrolling streets.

Ayala Land, which owns the mall, estimated the damage at P100 million.

An irritated Esperon, reacting to accusations that he and NSA Gonzales were
behind the bombing, said: "They allege that I was the mastermind. It's
illogical. I should be the one who will secure our people," he said.

Department of National Defence Secretary Gilbert Teodoro Jr., for his part,
dismissed speculation that the explosion in Makati last Friday, was intended to
divert the public's attention from the bribery controversy in Malacanang.

"I think those who make that accusation or blame are to be condemned by society
because this is a terrible and painful incident. This should not be used for
politicking, "Teodoro told reporters.

A beleaguered Mrs Arroyo, is also pointed to by militant groups as being the
perpetrator of the bomb attack, yesterday attempted to rally the Filipinos to
unite behind her government and to continue working hard amid developments that
pose fresh threats to the country's economic takeoff.

She said that the "nation is faced with the problem of terrorism, spiraling
price of oil, and political squabbling, yet the political noise continues."

Mrs Arroyo urged the people to shun those who seek to destabilize government.

"Let us fight them. We had to be strong. Let us link hands, persevere, sacrifice
and do not be swayed by those who create trouble" while appealing for unity to
continue with the economic progress that create wealth and jobs."

The metropolis was placed on full red alert since Friday, with a total of 6,000
policemen and soldiers on security patrol in the capital.

At the same time, Mrs Arroyo who has been denounced by the Catholic Bishops
Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) also sought the bishops' support, as she
directed police to link up with Church leaders in tracking down the perpetrators
of Friday's explosion.

"Coordinate and cooperate with Church leader to identify the perpetrators," she
ordered the authorities present during the briefing at Camp Crame.

There has been a call for her resignation by at least three bishops after the
expose on the cash bribes given in paper bags to all the congressmen and
governors in a meeting at Malacanang.

Source: The Daily Tribune website, Manila, in English 21 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

Turkish Interior Ministry holds meeting on recent terror attack

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 21 October: A meeting takes place at Turkish Interior Ministry in regard
to terrorist attack in southeastern province of Hakkari on Sunday [21 October].

According to sources, the meeting began at 12:45 p.m. under the chairmanship of
Besir Atalay. Turkish Police Department Head Oguz Kaan Koksal, State Minister
Cemil Cicek and officials from Gendarmerie General Command are attending the
meeting.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1113 gmt 21 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

Turkish premier, officials discuss recent terror attack

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 21 October: State Minister & Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek, Interior
Minister Besir Atalay and several bureaucrats had a meeting at the Interior
Ministry on Sunday [21 October] to discuss recent terrorist attacks that killed
at least 12 Turkish soldiers and wounded several others in southeastern province
of Hakkari.

The two-hour meeting was also attended by the head of Police Dept. Oguz Kagan
Koksal, National Intelligence Organization (MIT) Undersecretary Emre Taner and
high-level officials from Gendarmerie General Command.

Later on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had a meeting with Cicek and Atalay
in Prime Ministry.

Earlier in the day, Turkish General Staff said that an armed attack was staged
by members of terrorist organization PKK [Kurdistan Workers' Party] on a Turkish
military unit in Daglica region of southeastern province of Hakkari, stating
that 12 soldiers died and 16 others were wounded.

On the other hand, a landmine planted by PKK terrorists went off on a road in
Daglica region in Hakkari, while a minibus was passing. 14 civilians were
wounded in the blast.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1235 gmt 21 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2007 Monday

US envoy to Turkey condemns terrorist attacks, vows to work with Turkey

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["US AMBASSADOR WILSON CONDEMNS RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS IN HAKKARI" - AA
headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -21.10.2007 -US Ambassador to Turkey Ross Wilson condemned recent
terrorists attacks in southeastern province of Hakkari that killed 12 Turkish
soldiers and wounded 16 others.

In a statement on Sunday, Wilson said, "ending this cycle of violence is a goal
that unites us."

"I have been shocked by the news reports today from Hakkari of terrorist
violence that has claimed many dead and wounded. The victims' families and loved
ones deserve our deepest condolences. I conveyed my sadness to the Foreign
Ministry today. I am committed to working with Turkey and Turkish authorities to
eliminate the PKK terrorist threat to the people of Turkey," he said.

Earlier in the day, terrorist organization PKK staged an armed attack on a
Turkish military unit in Daglica region of southeastern province of Hakkari,
that killed 12 soldiers and wounded 16 others, Turkish General Staff said.

On the other hand, a landmine planted by PKK terrorists went off on a road in
Daglica region in Hakkari, while a minibus was passing. 14 civilians were
wounded in the blast.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1320 gmt 21 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2007 Monday

Turkish foreign minister condemns terror attacks, meets Saudi king

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["BABACAN ON RECENT ACTS OF TERRORISM/KING ABDULLAH OF SAUDI ARABIA RECEIVES FM
BABACAN" - AA headline]

JEDDA (A.A) -21.10.2007 -Turkish Foreign Minister & Chief Negotiator for the EU
talks Ali Babacan, currently on a formal visit to Saudi Arabia, strongly
condemned the recent attack of the PKK terrorist organization in southeastern
province of Hakkari on Sunday.

Babacan had telephone conversations with Turkish President Abdullah Gul and
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the matter.

Babacan is on a tour to countries covering Middle East countries to explain the
reason of the Prime Ministry motion authorizing the government to launch a
cross-border operation into northern Iraq within a period of one year.

Babacan, who met King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and Foreign Minister Prince
Faisal, explained views and firmness of Turkey as regards to fight against PKK
terrorism.

Babacan is scheduled to proceed to Kuwait on Monday morning to hold mettings.

Babacan is expected to cut his visit short and return to Ankara on Monday
afternoon to give information to President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan about his tour.

King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia received Turkish Foreign Minister & Chief
Negotiator of the EU talks Ali Babacan on Sunday.

Babacan, who exchanged views with King Abdullah on relations between Turkey and
Saudi Arabia, gave a letter of Turkish President Abdullah Gul inviting King
Abdullah to Turkey.

Babacan also attended the foundation laying ceremony of King Abdullah Science &
Technology University.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1830 gmt 21 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2007 Monday

Polish interior minister says "no specific signals" of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 654 words


Text of report by Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita website on 16 October

[Report by Jaroslaw Strozyk and Mariusz Goss: "How Not To Be Intimidated by
Terrorists When League of Polish Families Demands Defence Minister Step Down"]

Is there a real threat of terrorist attacks in Poland? After recent attacks
targeted at Poles in Iraq, the ABW [Internal Security Agency] prefers to play it
safe, and hence the launch of a special website with information on how not to
allow oneself to be intimidated by terrorists. The ABW writes on this site that
the most important aim of terrorists is not to kill but to provoke fear.

The ABW wants to avert this, so it is appealing to the public to use emergency
phone numbers to notify the police, fire brigades, and hospitals (997, 998, 999
and 112) if they find a suspicious-looking package or notice unusual behaviour.

"Operations conducted by the secret services or even by the most specialized
bodies fighting against terrorism will have no effect unless they are supported
by citizens," the ABW website reports. Lieutenant Colonel Magdalena Stanczyk,
ABW spokeswoman, says that the Agency's aim is to provide the readers with
reliable information on any threats, and terrorism is one of them.

"Currently, there is no reason to panic, but this is a sign for the secret
services, which should assess the threat," former ABW Chief Pawel Pruszynski
says. "After the attacks in London and Madrid we know more about the methods
pursued by terrorists and can firmly counter them."

"Poles' collaboration with bodies responsible for security may avert a terrorist
attack. Everyone should be aware of the fact that it might depend on them if an
attempted terrorist attack is foiled and, by the same token, if people's lives
are saved." he adds.

Interior Minister Wladyslaw Stasiak stresses that the situation in Poland is
constantly being monitored. "There are no specific signals of a threat of
terrorist attacks in Poland," he said.

In the meantime, the war in Iraq has become of one the major topics of the
election campaign.

"Let us discuss the future of military missions in Iraq or Afghanistan after the
elections. Raising this issue during the election exposes our soldiers and
citizens to the threat of a terrorist attack," Defence Minister Aleksander
Szczyglo appealed during a special press conference. "Unfortunately, the
opposition is using these issues to make political capital, and - in the case of
some parties - to get into parliament."

The minister's words evoked an immediate response from Roman Giertych, leader of
the League of Polish Families [LPR]. He called the minister to step down
immediately and to admit in public that the mission in Iraq was a failure. "I
consider such insinuations as disgusting, especially when uttered by a man who
is co-responsible for a war that is not our war," Giertych said indignantly.

The Civic Platform [PO] did not like the minister's statement either. "I do not
understand the alarm that Minister Szczyglo is raising at the moment. I not only
fail to understand this but am also indignant," Bogdan Zdrojewski from the PO
said.

He added that in PO's opinion Polish troops should have been withdrawn from Iraq
back in 2005.

Yesterday [ 15 October] Jacek Kurski, Law and Justice [PiS] deputy, revealed
during a press conference in Gdansk a recording from 2003 in which LPR leader
Roman Giertych supported sending Polish troops to Iraq. "We should not
immediately give up every dangerous mission, and in my opinion the stability
mission in Iraq is now fulfilling its function well," Giertych said back then.
According to Kurski, the footage was broadcast on Wiadomosci [major newscast on
public TV network] on the TVP station.

Previously, the LPR leader explained himself for the recent LPR election advert.
"It is possible to oppose the war in Iraq and not to be an anti-Semite,"
Giertych argued.

Source: Rzeczpospolita website, Warsaw, in Polish 16 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2007 Monday

Author urges India against blaming every terrorist attack on Bangladesh

LENGTH: 1421 words


Text of commentary by retired commodore Mohammad Khurshed Alam headlined
"Playing the Blame Game" published by Bangladeshi newspaper The Daily Star
website on 20 October

The policy of blaming Bangladesh for every terrorist attacks in India is doing
more harm than good. At least 42 people were killed and 50 injured in two
explosions at a crowded park and a popular eatery in Hyderabad on 25 August 07,
three months after the Mecca Masjid blasts. Soon after the incident, Union
Minister of State for Home Sriprakash Jaiswal had said, "Some of our neighbours
are jealous of India's progress and they keep hatching conspiracies to disrupt
harmony in the country."

Indian newspapers are blaming it on weak-kneed and bumbling response to terror
attacks, both in preventing them and in bringing the merchants of death to book
and the failure of the governments to deal more firmly with the scourge of
terrorism. What we have observed is that a familiar drill follows every terror
attack in India - visits to the spot by some high-level dignitaries and then
announcement of compensation and finger pointing across the border towards
Pakistan and Bangladesh.

We in Bangladesh have always condemned any forms of terror as our people are
peace loving and strongly believe that peace can not co-exist with attacks on
any community or class of people, whether they are communal, caste or ethnic
killings. Everything we do to prevent and punish acts of terror must flow from
the basic premise that not only do these take away innocent lives but also
divide the country, society, create mistrust among the people and leave scars
that can take decades to heal in any country. It is known that terrorism is
worse than an act of war against any nation. Rather, it's worse than war,
because terror acts are executed stealthily against civil society targeting
schools, suburban trains at peak hour, crowded markets as well as places of
congregation.

Many Indians now feel, according to some newspapers that their anger as a whole
should not only be directed towards those who commit such acts, but equally
towards those who plan and finance them. Extreme views are arguing that India
should take the war on terror even across the border, a very dangerous move and
must be a cause of concern for the neighbours. We in South Asia should
desperately pursue to achieve the economical sovereignty for our teeming
millions putting aside our egos, turf wars and differences, and act as one.
Security establishments including some politicians of the region have not yet
felt the pang of conscience and looked beyond short-term gains before maligning
others. Before we analyze the usual blame game on Bangladesh, let us just delve
more into the continuous terrorist attacks happening within the borders of
India. The long simmering Ayodhya crisis finally culminated in a terrorist
attack on the site of the 16th century Babri Massif -Ram Janmabhoomi Hindu
temple in Ayodhya on 5 July 2005. Three explosions went off in the Indian
capital of New Delhi on 29 October 2005 which killed more than 70 people and
injured at least 200 others. A series of blasts occurred across the Hindu holy
city of Varanasi on 7 March 2006. 21 people were reported to have been killed
and as many as 101 others were injured.

In September 2006, at least 37 people were killed and 125 injured in a series of
bomb blasts in the vicinity of a mosque in Malegaon, Maharashtra and in May
2007, 13 people were killed, including 4 killed by the Indian police in the
rioting that followed in the bombing at Mecca Masjid, Hyderabad. India has
hundreds of thousands of miles of railway track, and over 14,000 trains
crisscross the country every day. These are tempting targets for many of the
terrorist groups operating within India and attack on trains, whether direct
assaults, bombings or deliberate derailing through sabotage are common. Andhra
Pradesh is one of the few southern states affected by terrorism and it stems
from the People's War Group (PWG), popularly known as Naxalites which has been
operating in India for over a few decades. The group is also active in Orissa
and Bihar. PWG is a Maoist terrorist organization and labour rights are one of
its primary goals. The group targets Indian Police, multinational companies,
landlords and other influential institutions in the name of the rights of
landless labour.

Lashkar-i-Toiba, Jaish-i-Muhammad, Hizb-ul-Mojahedin, Harkat-ul- Mojahedin,
Farzandan-i-Millat and United Jihad Council are also operating in Kashmir and
carrying out attacks against the security forces since long. Perhaps the most
significant insurgency started in Nagaland [eastern Indian state] from the early
1950s. The National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak-Muivah (NSCN-IM) demanded
an independent Nagaland and has carried out a number of attacks on soldiers,
government targets and public property. Although a cease-fire agreement was
signed between the Government of India and the NSCN-IM, yet Manipur, the
neighbouring state, apprehended that the National Council of Nagaland-Khaplang
(NSCN-K) would continue insurgent activities in the state of Manipur and
demanded that the government in New Delhi scrap the ceasefire deal and renew
military action.

Bodos in the state demanded for a separate Bodo land and the government in Delhi
gave special administrative autonomy much to the chagrin of the Bodos and
consequently led to clash between the Bengalis, the Bodos and the Indian
military resulting in hundreds of deaths. Bodo Liberation Tigers and National
Democratic Front of Bodoland were involved in number of fatal attacks. Then also
the United Liberation Front of Asam (ULFA) formed in 1971 demanded the
independence of Assam and the establishment of a socialist government. The ULFA
has carried out over hundred attacks in the region targeting the Indian
military, political opponents, police, railroad tracks, and other infrastructure
facilities.

Then suddenly it started blaming Bangladesh for every terrorist's activities in
India knowing fully well that the root cause of most of them were social
injustice and economic deprivation. This has also something to do with the BJP
when it started all this as xenophobia against the Muslims in India and the
so-called issue of large-scale migration from Bangladesh.

Security establishments in India are finding an easy excuse for the blame game
that some Bangladeshis are being used by the ISI for carrying out subversive
activities in India. Although so far, no solid proof has yet been provided by
India. Bangladesh failed to estimate the impact of such unfounded blame game and
the power of the electronic and print media of India and now with every
incident, Indian public as well have started believing that in addition to
Pakistan, Bangladesh based militant outfits are also involved in these attacks.
And the efforts of our diplomatic channel in denying any involvement in such i!
ncidents have not helped at all in removing the blame game mindset. We are happy
to see that India is the biggest democracy, already a regional power and has
recorded rapid progress on the economic side but we strongly feel that such
rhetoric of blame does incalculable harm by putting a premium on complacency and
masks the feeble response to the challenge.

We are, however, lucky that Indian security establishments have not blamed
Bangladesh for nearly three decades of reign of terror unleashed by the dreaded
sandalwood smuggler, Veerappan, in the sprawling forests of Tamil Nadu and also
for the loss of the Noble medal of Rabindranath Tagore from Shantiniketan,
investigation about whom has recently been suspended by the Indian CBI [Central
Bureau of Investigation]. Bangladesh must understand that what has gone into the
minds of Indian security establishments can hardly be eliminated over night and
we must initiate appropriate corrective actions to remove such accusation
through establishing second track channel and people to people contact with the
Indian political think tank and hierarchy so that such blame games are stopped
and we can move ahead with our economic emancipation along with India. We feel
that war against terrorism is too important to be left to governments and their
agencies only, rather every one of us must make concerted effort in removing the
root causes and act as a combatant and committed to securing a safe future for
our children and the nation and only then terrorists should know that we mean
business.

Source: The Daily Star website, Dhaka, in English 20 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      October 22, 2007 Monday 12:42 PM GMT

US sailor shootings 'not terror attack'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 86 words


Terrorism has been ruled out in a shooting that left two US Navy sailors dead
and one critically injured at their Bahrain base today.

Officers said they were still investigating the killings which happened in the
barracks on the US Naval Support Activity Bahrain base around 5am (3am Irish
time).

The two sailors were pronounced dead at the scene, and the third was taken to a
local hospital in critical condition, a statement said.

Officials closed the base temporarily and reopened it about an hour after the
incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            October 22, 2007 Monday

Goths attacked by terror gang

BYLINE: Camilla Sutcliffe

SECTION: BURNLEY (BURNLEY)

LENGTH: 492 words


A GROUP of horrified teenagers were chased and attacked with sticks and bottles
because of how they were dressed.

The three boys and one girl, all 15, were attired in "gothic" or "mosher" style,
with black clothing, jeans and jewellery, when they were set upon by a group of
up to 12 youths just before 6pm on Saturday.

Police said the attack, in Burnley, could have been much more serious if a
passer-by had not stepped in to save the them.

And he said it was even more sickening as it came just two months after the
death of 20-year-old Sophie Lancaster, who was beaten to death in Stubbylee
Park, Bacup, because of her gothic dress style.

The teenagers involved in the latest incident were first chased in Leyland Road,
but the attack happened in Holcombe Drive, near Turf Moor.

Two of the victims were taken to hospital, but were released later the same
evening.

Three of the victims suffered cuts and bruising, and one boy's arm has been so
badly battered it has been put in a sling.

Detectives said they were treating the incident very seriously because of the
vicious nature of the attack.

Det Insp Derek Jones, of Burnley police, said: "They are nice, intelligent kids
who were all very frightened by what happened to them.

"They were attacked with sticks and bottles and we believe that the attack was
stopped by a passer-by.

"It could have been far more serious otherwise and that's why we have had a
number of detectives working on it.

"They could have ended up with very serious injuries."

He said the attack was similar to that on Sophie Lancaster and her boyfriend Rob
Maltby, in August, because once again the teens had done nothing to provoke the
violence and were targeted only because of their appearance.

Det Inp Jones said: "I honestly believe these people had done nothing more than
walk down the street minding their own business, and just because they look
different to the general population of that area they have been set upon.

"I believe these people have been targeted because of the way they dressed and
the way they looked.

"We don't often get incidents like this in Burnley - most assaults are related
to drinking.

"Obviously there are always minor skirmishes between kids, but fortunately this
kind of thing isn't too common, and we want to keep it that way.

"We won't tolerate attacks on anyone, and we are appealing to anyone who might
have seen what happened to come forward and let us know."

Police made house-to-house inquiries in Leyland Road and Holcombe Drive
yesterday and searched the area.

It is believed the youths behind the attack were white.

The attack left moshers at the nearby bus station shocked yesterday.

One said: "We heard about what happened in Bacup and that has frightened us all.

"We have all had comments and things like that but it is frightening that this
has now happened in Burnley."

Anyone with information about the incident has been asked to call Burnley CID on
01282 472144, or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            October 22, 2007, Monday
                               News Extra Edition

25 killed in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 55 words


A tamil Tiger rebel attack at a Sri Lankan air base this morning killed five
airmen and left 20 rebels dead, the military said. Four other airmen died when
the helicopter they were using to search for the attackers crashed because of
mechanical failure. The attack on the Anuradhapura air base also left another 22
airmen injured.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday

Turkish party holds Kurdistan region head responsible for terror attacks

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["BARZANI AND HIS PESHMERGAS DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS,
BAHCELI" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkish Nationalist Movement (MHP) chairman Devlet Bahceli said on
Monday that Barzani and his peshmergas were directly responsible for the
terrorist attacks against Turkey.

MHP chairman Bahceli issued a written statement after his meeting with President
Abdullah Gul.

In the statement Bahceli said, "it is understood that presence of Turkish
soldiers may be needed in the region (northern Iraq) temporarily to eliminate
PKK threat ."

He said the government has to decide on necessary arrangement to declare a state
of emergency in the region, and added: "all extensions of Barzani and their
fragments in Turkey supporting PKK should be revealed, including those under the
roof of the parliament."

Bahceli said indignation aroused among Turkish public against the recently
escalating hienious attacks, noting that, "recent statements of the Prime
Minister and other AK Party executives unfortunately prove that they have not
fully comprehended their constitutional duties and responsibilities."

Bahceli said, "I have expressed to President Gul my views regarding the measures
that have to be taken."

Bahceli said north of Iraq has become the centre of action and logistics of the
attacks targeting Turkey, and noted that, "It is now the time of tangible deeds,
not words."

MHP chairman also said graveness of the terror problem that Turkey has to deal
with necessitates a national mobilization.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1347 gmt 22 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday

Turkish Cypriot associations condemn terrorist attack in southeast Turkey

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["ASSOCIATIONS AND LABOUR UNIONS IN TRNC PROTEST TERRORISM" - AA headline]

LEFKOSA (A.A) -Various associations and labour unions in Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus (TRNC) protested the recent terrorist attack in Turkey.

Releasing a statement, associations and unions said that they are deeply sorry
that 12 Turkish soldiers were martyred and 16 others were wounded in a terrorist
attack in southeastern province of Hakkari.

They stated that terrorism is the biggest crime against humanity.

A demonstration to "curse terrorism" will be held in Lefkosa on Wednesday.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0912 gmt 23 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday

Turkish Cypriot leader condemns terrorist attack in southeast Turkey

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["TRNC PRESIDENT CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN TURKEY" - AA headline]

LEFKOSA -23.10.2007 -Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) President Mehmet
Ali Talat condemned Tuesday recent terrorist attacks in Turkey.

Talat sent messages to Turkish President Abdullah Gul and Chief of General Staff
Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, and expressed sorrow over Turkey's casualties.

PKK terrorists killed 12 soldiers and wounded 16 others in an attack in
southeastern province of Hakkari on Sunday.

According to a General Staff communique posted on its internet site on Monday,
no contact has been established with eight military personnel who are still
missing since Sunday's PKK attack in Hakkari.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1113 gmt 23 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 23, 2007 Tuesday 12:06 PM BST

BROWN CONDEMNS TERROR ATTACKS ON TURKEY

BYLINE: Jon Smith, PA Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Britain will continue to work for a diplomatic solution to ``root out'' PKK
terrorists striking against Turkey from bases within Iraq, Prime Minister Gordon
Brown said today.

Mr Brown was speaking in Downing Street after talks with Turkish premier Recep
Tayyip Erdogan following the latest attack which killed 12 Turkish soldiers and
saw eight others kidnapped.

Mr Brown said: ``We condemn absolutely and unequivocally the terrorist violence
of PKK.''

Mr Brown went on: ``The fact that 12 members of the Turkish army have been
killed, the fact that eight have now been kidnapped and that civilian violence
has resulted from their (PKK) activities within Turkey is something the whole
world community has condemned in the last few days.

``We are committed to work with the Turkish government on counter-terrorism
activity so we can root out these problems and we will continue to work for a
diplomatic solution to the problems that exist from within Iraq.

``This is where the Iraqi government and others can play a part in ensuring
there is a proper solution to these difficulties.''

Mr Brown said the UK continued to firmly back Turkey's bid for EU membership and
was confident progress could be made soon ``despite some of the difficulties of
recent days and weeks''.

He said discussions with other EU leaders had left him hopeful that the European
Council meeting in December would ``reach agreement on the next stage''.

The Prime Minister also announced the signing of a ``strategic partnership''
between the two nations, that includes plans for a British university in Turkey.

There would also be ``bigger government to government involvement on trade'' and
joint working on a ``secure industrial zone'' in Basra as part of efforts to
regenerate the Iraqi economy.

Mr Erdogan welcomed the support for the EU bid.

The Turkish Prime Minister said his country's parliament had authorised a
military operation in Northern Iraq, but stressed any such operation would be
conducted only against the PKK.

He stressed his country had no territorial designs on Iraq and respected its
territory.

Later he added: ``The Iraqi government must know we can exercise this mandate we
have received from the Turkish parliament at any time.''

He said his government had tried for months to reach successful agreements with
the Iraqi administration, adding: ``We cannot wait for ever, so we have to make
decisions, our own decisions.''

Mr Brown stressed again: ``We unequivocally condemn what the PKK has done, both
the deaths of army soldiers, the kidnapping of men and the threat and injuries
to civilians.

``We will proscribe the PKK and organisations associated with it in the UK. We
will step up our counter-terrorism cooperation with the Turkish government to
deal with this issue.

``As far as Iraq is concerned we will step up all the efforts that are necessary
so that terrorists cannot move from Iraq over the mountains.

``We believe the actions we are prepared to take internationally give some
support to the Turkish government in these difficult circumstances.

``We will work together to deal with any terrorist atrocities that exist. We
will step up efforts together so we can deal with the terrorist threat that
clearly exists.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 23, 2007, Tuesday

Redford's attack on terror war misfires

BYLINE: James Christopher

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 482 words


Lions for Lambs

Odeon Leicester Square

**

Tickets for last night's screening of Lions for Lambs could not be bought for
love or money. The world premiere of Robert Redford's political thriller has
been one of the most anticipated events of The Times BFI London Film Festival.
His withering satire of the US War Against Terror stars Meryl Streep as a high
profile journalist and Tom Cruise as a young Republican hawk. You can't fault
the anger, but the drama glows as brightly as a five-watt bulb.

The script by Matthew Michael Carnahan is a series of animated arguments that
look desperately staged. Dialogue veers into towering speeches, the film is
effectively a theatre piece. The surprise, and disappointment, is how little
effort Redford makes to mould the three central debates into a credible drama.
He himself plays a university professor and idealist. He is a 21st century Miss
Jean Brodie who subtly spins the idea that fighting a war is profoundly more
rewarding than talking about it, and his deadpan conviction is genuinely spooky.

The dirty politics of America's military policy in the Middle East are thrashed
out between Streep's cynical journalist and Cruise's presidential hopeful. The
reality of Cruise's mad campaign is felt by two of Redford's former students,
who are in the Army. They are stranded in no man's land with bullet wounds and
no escape routes.

Not a single character feels real and rounded. The most intriguing conflict of
egos is the fight between Cruise and Streep. They grapple with each other's
arguments like professional television wrestlers. She is full of disbelieving
small smiles and arched eyebrows; he is a desk- thumping, ultra-smooth flirt who
beams at her with total insincerity.

The earnestness of Redford's film is admirable. The complex point the film tries
to make - about the way that the idealism, politics and grim reality of war
interact - is the stuff of every great festival challenge. This is not designed
to be an easy watch, but there's a fatal lack of flesh and blood. The film has
an almost autistic lack of personality. Redford's clever attempt to fill these
gaping holes by casting actors whom audiences will instantly recognise and can
flesh out in an instant doesn't pay off.

There's almost a ghostly echo of his own memorable performance as a beleaguered
journalist in All the President's Men. Where that film was based on truth, Lions
for Lambs sits on acres of speculation.

Trying to harpoon Republican conspiracies about oil and the fabled "axis of
evil" is a blood sport in Washington. Cruise calmly boots this inquisition into
touch.

"Do you want to win the War on Terror? Yes or No? That is the quintessential
question of our time," he snaps in one of the film's rare charged moments. It is
this rhetorical question about fear that haunts the entire film. If the
characters themselves were less rhetorical it might even sting.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday

Singapore police chief warns "terrorists" may attack maritime targets

LENGTH: 289 words


Text of report by Singapore newspaper The Straits Times website on 24 October

Terrorists, faced with heightened security on land and in the air, may again be
looking at maritime targets.

Police Commissioner Khoo Boon Hui, speaking at the third meeting of heads of
Asian coast guard agencies on Wednesday, noted previous attacks at sea, such as
on the USS Cole in 2000 in Yemen and the 2004 attack on the Superferry 14 in the
Philippines.

He said: 'These attacks have demonstrated that maritime based terrorism is not a
question of if, but rather when it will happen again.

'Of great concern are the various chokepoints in the world where there is
substantial sea traffic and it is a strategic imperative to keep them open and
safe.'

Echoing Mr Khoo, Commissioner General of the South Korean Coast Guard, Mr
Dong-Ok Kwon, said: 'As 80 per cent of our nation's sea cargo and 95 per cent of
our crude oil pass through the Straits of Malacca and Singapore, we have a stake
in maintaining maritime security.'

More than 100 delegates from 17 countries, including the Asean states, China,
India and Pakistan, are attending the meeting at Pan-Pacific Hotel.

One of the recent initiatives that arose from these meetings was the Regional
Cooperation Agreement for Anti-Piracy in Asia (ReCAAP).

The initiative was launched last November to enable 16 countries to share
information on sea piracy. There has been a positive impact on the security
situation since, said Commander Jerry See of the Singapore Police Coast Guard.

The International Maritime Bureau noted that cases of piracy and sea robbery in
Asia went down to 87 in the first nine months, from 106 during the same period
last year.

Source: The Straits Times website, Singapore, in English 24 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday

Indonesian police chief advocates religious approach to curb terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report by Indonesian commercial news website Detikcom on 18 October

[Report by Zainal Effendy: "Terrorism issue can not be tackled through law and
order approach only"]

This item is on a statement by Indonesian Police Chief General Sutanto about the
need to use a persuasive approach based on religion in tackling terrorism
problems and not to rely only on a law and order approach. The statement was
released against the background of the controversial issue regarding the
temporary removal of two terrorists convicted for their part in the Bali
bombings by the police from their maximum security prison.

Sutanto reasserted that the persuasive approach through religion was essential
in deterring suspected terrorists from carrying out their future attacks. "We
are going to use both a religious and a legal approach," he said.

He argued that the two terrorists convicted over the Bali bombings were taken
out of prison to assist police investigators. "It depends on the investigators.
If they are still needed, they will remain in our custody," said Sutanto.

The two convicted terrorists were used by the police to expose more terrorist
networks. "The two convicted terrorists are receiving rehabilitation treatment
to prevent them from spreading their old beliefs," added Sutanto.

Source: Detikcom website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 18 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2007 Friday

Indian PM reviews preparations to deal with terror attacks

LENGTH: 408 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 25 October: With intelligence warnings of new types of terror-related
crimes like biological warfare, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday [25
October] reviewed at a high-level meeting the preparations to deal with
different types of terror attacks.

"The prime minister reviewed the preparedness to deal with different types of
terrorist attacks," the PMO [Prime Minister's Office] said in a release after
Singh chaired the first meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority
(NDMA).

The intelligence agencies have warned of new types of crimes like bio-terrorism
and hacking and the Home Ministry is gearing itself up to meet the new threats.

Singh told the meeting that intelligence on terror strikes would remain with the
concerned central security agencies, while the group could formulate a plan to
deal exigencies in case of biological or chemical warfare.

Advising that NDMA should be developed as a high-level policy-making body, the
prime minister said the objective was to provide focused attention to disaster
management, bring to bear best possible expertise and to generally
professionalize the entire gamut of disaster management activities.

Observing that disaster management should be holistic rather than
relief-centric, he said citizens' awareness was needed in dealing with
calamities.

He suggested setting up of a high-level policy making body capable of providing
advice and assistance to states during times of disaster.

Singh noted that the setting up of the NDMA marked a paradigm shift in the
government's approach to disaster management from "a purely response or
relief-centric approach to a more holistic one" covering all aspects like
prevention, mitigation, preparedness, relief, response and rehabilitation.

As part of efforts to function effectively, the NDMA also decided to associate
Ministers of Agriculture, Finance and Home Affairs besides the Planning
Commission Deputy Chairman with future meetings.

The meeting assigned the task of providing immediate relief and response to
National Executive Committee, while the National Crisis Management Committee
will deal with other related matters.

Thursday's meeting was attended among others by NDMA chief N.C. Vij, National
Security Adviser M.K. Narayanan, Principal Secretary to Prime Minister T.K.A.
Nair and Cabinet Secretary R. Chandrasekhar.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1830gmt 25 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            October 26, 2007, Friday
                                   1 Edition

Tough laws to protect Scots from bio-terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ALAN RODEN Health reporter

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 434 words


PUBLIC health bodies in Scotland are to be better equipped to handle a
bio-terrorist attack or a major outbreak of a deadly infection.

A parliamentary Bill to modernise public health legislation was published today
to protect Scots from 21st century threats.

As well as the risk of biological terrorism, or chemical or radiological
contamination, the ease of overseas travel has led to the global spread of
disease, such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) which killed 774
people in 26 countries in 2003.

Older infections such as TB (tuberculosis) have also re-emerged, while public
health bodies also need to be prepared for dangers such as a flu pandemic, an
outbreak of e-coli or anthrax poisoning.

The legislation will strengthen the powers of health boards, such as NHS
Lothian. They will be able to exclude people from a range of contaminated areas,
beyond just schools and workplaces.

On the order of sheriffs, new powers will be introduced to quarantine people
when there is a risk to public health, remove and detain people suffering from a
serious infectious disease in hospital and force individuals to have the least
intrusive or invasive medical examination possible - without their consent - if
there is a significant risk to others.

The Bill also includes a new power to require a person to be disinfected,
disinfested or decontaminated. Health boards would only resort to these actions
should an individual refuse consent.

Public Health Minister Shona Robison said: "This is a major piece of legislation
which will ensure that appropriate measures are in place to safeguard the public
from existing and emerging threats to public health.

"The strengthening of the current legislation will ensure that Scotland has the
necessary powers to protect its citizens from the global spread of disease and
contamination, the consequences of which can be significant.

"In a world that is increasingly accessible, largely due to the ease of overseas
travel, this is an issue facing every country.

"We must endeavour to ensure that modern day Scotland has the necessary
legislative powers in place to deal with the wide-ranging threats and challenges
we face in the 21st century."

The Scottish Government's Public Health etc (Scotland) Bill will update
legislation that dates back to 1889, bringing Scotland into line with other
countries.

Other aspects include a statutory duty for the provision of mortuaries and
notification arrangements for infectious diseases.

Dr Harry Burns, Scotland's chief medical officer, said: "Our preparedness to
protect the public will be strengthened by this legislation."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                            October 26, 2007 Friday

Firework park attack terror

BYLINE:  AIMI MOORES

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 460 words


Children and their parents were left terrified when yobs threw a firework at
them in a playground.

Several mums had taken the youngsters to Hanley Park when the firework was
hurled towards the group.

One child's jumper was set alight, while a woman suffered a burn to her ear as
she tried to shield the children.

Claire Keen, aged 32, from Norton, had taken her two daughters Abigail, aged
five, and three-month-old Isabelle to the park.

She said: "There were five adults and eight children. We had gathered the
children together to give them some snacks and we heard this horrendous noise.

"I turned round to see this firework heading along the ground towards us.

"All the children got showered with sparks, and you could feel the heat of it.

"The children were screaming and we didn't know if it was because they were
frightened, or they were injured, so our first thought was to check they were
OK.

"By the time we knew they weren't injured whoever threw the firework had run
away."

Jayne Barber, aged 38, from Milton, had her two sons, Jack, aged five, and
three-year-old Sam, with her, plus a friend's children Hannah, aged nine, and
five-year-old Jake.

She said: "I heard the noise and expected it to be in the air, but it was coming
along the grass. It was whistling and sparks were going everywhere.

"I turned to the side and it caught my ear. If I hadn't turned it would have hit
Jake in the face; his jumper was smouldering from the sparks,  but we managed to
put it out before it got too bad.

"We were lucky none of the children were injured, but they were absolutely
petrified."

The mothers and their children were all left shaken by the incident.

Mrs Keen said: "At first I was so angry that someone could do that. It wasn't
until I was on my way home that it hit me how bad it could have been, and then I
got upset. If the firework had gone in my daughter's pram I dread to think what
could have happened.

"Abigail had trouble sleeping that night, and Jake says he doesn't want to go to
the park again. I can't understand why someone would do it."

The incident, which took place at around 1.30pm on Tuesday, was reported to
police, but CCTV has not shown the offenders.

A spokesman for Staffordshire Police said: "We've reviewed CCTV but
unfortunately it proved negative.

"The neighbourhood patrols are going to be paying extra attention to the park
and we are working with Trading Standards to regulate the sale of fireworks in
the city.

"The use of fireworks in this manner is illegal and dangerous, and we will take
action against anyone found behaving this way.

"If anyone knows who is responsible they should contact the Western
Neighbourhood Policing Team."

Anyone with information can call Staffordshire Police on 08453 302010.

Have you been terrorised by fireworks?

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday

Turkish premier urges public to join forces against "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 28 October: Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Sunday [28
October] terrorist attacks cannot reach their target as long as Turkish citizens
come together and join their forces instead of feeling doubts about each other.

"We deeply feel the pain of our martyrs these days," he said in his message to
mark the October 29 Republic Day.

In his message, Erdogan reaffirmed Turkey's determination to fight against
terrorism.

"I do not have any doubt about loyalty of our citizens to their state, nation,
flag, homeland and republic, whatever their ethnic origin, belief and life style
are," he said.

On the other hand, Erdogan said, "we are determined to bring Turkey above the
level of contemporary civilizations - a target set by Ataturk."

Erdogan also said Turkey will maintain the atmosphere of confidence and
stability, its unity and solidarity and the fundamental values of the Republic.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0926 gmt 28 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 29, 2007 Monday

Iranian, Syrian foreign ministers condemn PKK terrorist attacks on Turkey

LENGTH: 298 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

Damascus, 29 October: Iranian Foreign Minister Manuchehr Mottaki and his Syrian
counterpart Walid Mu'allim on Monday [29 October]condemned terrorist operations
of Turkish Workers Party (PKK) against Turkey from northern Iraq.

The two foreign ministers called for international cooperation to avert
terrorist threats to Turkey.

"Iran condemns use of northern Iraqi territory as a launchpad for terrorist
operations against Turkey and is fully prepared to combat terrorism at any
place," Mottaki said.

Mu'allim said that Syria advocates international campaign against terrorism and
condemns cross-border terrorist operations against Turkey.

Mottaki and Mouallem discussed bilateral, regional and international issues
including Iraq, Lebanon and Palestine.

He said that Iran and Syria have taken great strides to use the enormous
capacity of the two countries for economic cooperation.

Mottaki said that the high committee on Tehran-Damascus relations is scheduled
to convene by the year-end, adding that the projects on piping Iranian gas to
Turkey and Syria are examples of Iranian companies' involvement in carrying out
joint projects.

He expressed pleasure with multi-lateral cooperation with Syria in building
refinery, citing an agreement of Iranian, Syrian, Malaysian and Venezuelan
companies to build a refinery in Syria.

The final agreement on building a refinery in Damascus will be signed on
Tuesday.

Mouallem said that both Iran and Syria share common views on Lebanon's political
crisis, calling for consensus of the Lebanese political parties to resolve the
dispute over presidential election.

"Only a Lebanese plan will work for settlement of the issue," Mouallem said.

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 1155 gmt 29 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 29, 2007 Monday

Azerbaijan prevents terrorist attacks on foreign embassies - ministry

LENGTH: 33 words


Azerbaijan's National Security Ministry says it has prevented terrorist attacks
on foreign embassies and government offices in the capital Baku.

Source: Day.az website, Baku, in Russian 1258 gmt 29 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 29, 2007 Monday 5:01 PM BST

EMBASSY SECURITY REVIEW AFTER AZERBAIJAN 'TERROR ATTACK FOILED'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher, PA Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 176 words


The security of the British Embassy in Azerbaijan was under review tonight after
it was closed to visitors amid reports of a foiled terror attack against
foreigners.

Diplomatic sites in the capital Baku were said by the Azerbaijani government to
have been among the targets of a planned ``large-scale, horrifying terror
attack''.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said the situation was being ``kept under review''
and no decision had yet been made on when the building would reopen.

The closure has been added to the official travel advice but there has been no
move to warn against travel to the mostly-Muslim state which borders Russia and
Iran.

Although the FCO website notes that the political situation there is ``calm'',
it also warns that the country faces a terror threat and that attacks could be
``indiscriminate and against civilian targets and places frequented by
foreigners''.

Azerbaijan's national security ministry said its forces tracked down the radical
Islamic group plotting the attack in a weekend sweep in which one was killed and
others arrested.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 29, 2007 Monday 5:01 PM BST

EMBASSY SECURITY REVIEW AFTER AZERBAIJAN 'TERROR ATTACK FOILED'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher, PA Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 176 words


The security of the British Embassy in Azerbaijan was under review tonight after
it was closed to visitors amid reports of a foiled terror attack against
foreigners.

Diplomatic sites in the capital Baku were said by the Azerbaijani government to
have been among the targets of a planned ``large-scale, horrifying terror
attack''.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said the situation was being ``kept under review''
and no decision had yet been made on when the building would reopen.

The closure has been added to the official travel advice but there has been no
move to warn against travel to the mostly-Muslim state which borders Russia and
Iran.

Although the FCO website notes that the political situation there is ``calm'',
it also warns that the country faces a terror threat and that attacks could be
``indiscriminate and against civilian targets and places frequented by
foreigners''.

Azerbaijan's national security ministry said its forces tracked down the radical
Islamic group plotting the attack in a weekend sweep in which one was killed and
others arrested.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CHANELLE BOT TLE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 5

LENGTH: 411 words


A CRAZED stalker tried to maim Big Brother beauty Chanelle Hayes in a terrifying
nightclub attack.

The shocked star could have lost an eye as the demented woman hurled a beer
bottle at the babe who was standing on the stage.

But 19-year-old Chanelle manage to duck out of the way and was rushed off stage
by bodyguards.

Bouncers ejected the attacker who ran off before police arrived. The security
men were unaware the woman matched the description of a stalker who has been
following Chanelle for several weeks and been overheard making threats against
her.

Now Chanelle's minders are beefing up roundthe-clock security amid fears that
the woman could pounce again. The attacker is believed to be furious at the
blonde babe for getting engaged to fellow BB star, hunk Ziggy Lichman, 26.

"We are not taking any chances, " said a spokesman. "Chanelle will have a lot
more personal protection in future.

"We fear this woman has a real bee in her bonnet about her getting together with
Ziggy.

"A lot of people had strong feelings about Chanelle in Big Brother. Most love
her, but there are a few who really hate her, so we're just taking the necessary
precautions."

The attacker was lurking among 1,100 clubbers when the BB babe appeared at
Jumpin' Jaks club in Halifax, just a few miles from her home in Wakefield, West
Yorks.

The venue was packed when Chanelle took to the stage to talk to the crowd,
provide autographs and talk about her love for Ziggy 26.

Shaken Chanelle decided to carry on with the meet-and-greet so as not to
disappoint fans.

She said: "I wasn't going to let one jealous idiot spoil the night for everyone.
I'm just pleased the bottle didn't hit me or, worse, take my eye out."

A member of Chanelle's backstage team described the stalker as a "short, stocky
girl with greasy, mousy brown hair." He added: "She was very cheap and chav
looking."

Chanelle's agent Dave Read confirmed the star was now stepping up security to
ensure the attack was a one-off. He added: "We always take incidents like this
very seriously."

Curse of BB

THE attack on Chanelle is the latest involving a BB housemate.

Just days ago, gobby Charley Uchea, 22, was set upon by a group of girls outside
a London nightclub.

In January Saskia Howard-Clarke, 25, was hit in the head by a bottle at London's
Rex club.

BB6 winner Anthony Hutton, 25, suffered a broken nose in a brawl at a Manchester
club last year.

Grace Adams-Short, 22, was beaten by a thug as she left London's GAY club in
2006.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAVE: Chanelle carries on in the face of her stalker
JEALOUS: Ziggy love riles stalker
TARGET: Chanelle at the club before attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CHANELLE BOT TLE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 5

LENGTH: 411 words


A CRAZED stalker tried to maim Big Brother beauty Chanelle Hayes in a terrifying
nightclub attack.

The shocked star could have lost an eye as the demented woman hurled a beer
bottle at the babe who was standing on the stage.

But 19-year-old Chanelle manage to duck out of the way and was rushed off stage
by bodyguards.

Bouncers ejected the attacker who ran off before police arrived. The security
men were unaware the woman matched the description of a stalker who has been
following Chanelle for several weeks and been overheard making threats against
her.

Now Chanelle's minders are beefing up roundthe-clock security amid fears that
the woman could pounce again. The attacker is believed to be furious at the
blonde babe for getting engaged to fellow BB star, hunk Ziggy Lichman, 26.

"We are not taking any chances, " said a spokesman. "Chanelle will have a lot
more personal protection in future.

"We fear this woman has a real bee in her bonnet about her getting together with
Ziggy.

"A lot of people had strong feelings about Chanelle in Big Brother. Most love
her, but there are a few who really hate her, so we're just taking the necessary
precautions."

The attacker was lurking among 1,100 clubbers when the BB babe appeared at
Jumpin' Jaks club in Halifax, just a few miles from her home in Wakefield, West
Yorks.

The venue was packed when Chanelle took to the stage to talk to the crowd,
provide autographs and talk about her love for Ziggy 26.

Shaken Chanelle decided to carry on with the meet-and-greet so as not to
disappoint fans.

She said: "I wasn't going to let one jealous idiot spoil the night for everyone.
I'm just pleased the bottle didn't hit me or, worse, take my eye out."

A member of Chanelle's backstage team described the stalker as a "short, stocky
girl with greasy, mousy brown hair." He added: "She was very cheap and chav
looking."

Chanelle's agent Dave Read confirmed the star was now stepping up security to
ensure the attack was a one-off. He added: "We always take incidents like this
very seriously."

Curse of BB

THE attack on Chanelle is the latest involving a BB housemate.

Just days ago, gobby Charley Uchea, 22, was set upon by a group of girls outside
a London nightclub.

In January Saskia Howard-Clarke, 25, was hit in the head by a bottle at London's
Rex club.

BB6 winner Anthony Hutton, 25, suffered a broken nose in a brawl at a Manchester
club last year.

Grace Adams-Short, 22, was beaten by a thug as she left London's GAY club in
2006.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAVE: Chanelle carries on in the face of her stalker
JEALOUS: Ziggy love riles stalker
TARGET: Chanelle at the club before attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday

Queen greets Abdullah as Mayor joins attack on Saudi terror links

BYLINE: PIPPA CRERAR

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words


MAYOR Ken Livingstone today condemned the Saudi Royal family and accused them of
backing groups who support international terrorism.

The Mayor said the Saudis were the "principal" funders for the extremist Wahhabi
sect, whose followers include Osama bin Laden and the 9/11 bombers. In an
outspoken attack, he accused them of financially supporting intolerant Islam, a
move bound the embarrass the Government.

His comments came as the Queen officially welcomed King Abdullah as he began his
state visit with a troop inspection at Horseguards and a carriage ride down the
Mall.

The king, who will hold talks with Gordon Brown, had already ensured the visit
got off to a bumpy start when he criticised his hosts yesterday for Britain's
failure to combat terrorism.

Mr Livingstone told a press conference at City Hall that it was "a bit rich" of
the Saudi monarch to claim he had tackled terrorism in his own country.

"Far from the Saudi royal family being a stable force in global politics, they
have been the principal funders for the Wahhabi sect which is the most
intolerant strain of modern Islam," he said.

"That's why it was of no surprise that Osama bin Laden arose out of that strand
of Islam, or that 15 of the 19 hijackers on 9/11 shared that view.

"For the Saudi royal family now to say they have wiped out terrorism is a bit
rich they have been one of its principal sources through that funding of
Wahhabism over the last five decades." Mr Livingstone also criticised government
ministers for "bending over backwards" to keep the Saudis happy so that they
could win lucrative arms deals.

He singled out the multi-billion pound Al Yamamah arms deal which was the focus
of a Serious Fraud Office corruption probe but which was then controversially
ditched.

"We've had this quite obscene spectacle over decades of ministers from all
governments bending over backwards, desperate to win the arms deals," he said.

"We all know we had this failure to expose the scale of corruption and the
Government was wrong not to proceed." The Mayor first made his distaste for the
regime clear three years ago when he said he would be happy to see the Saudi
royal family "swinging from the lampposts".

Meanwhile King Abdullah faced protests by human rights and anti-arms trade
campaigners as he was driven down the Mall to Buckingham Palace.

More than 100 demonstrators gathered to attack Saudi human rights record and
Britain's defence deals with Riyadh.

Symon Hill, of the Campaign Against the Arms Trade, said: "Our message to the
Saudi King is that the British people believe in human rights and do not believe
in putting the arms trade ahead of human rights.

"It's hard to think Britain can criticise Mugabe's despotism in Zimbabwe if the
Saudi dictator is then welcomed to a banquet at Buckingham Palace." And Mary
Holmes, 65, a retired district nurse from Twickenham, south-west London, said
torture was a "state policy" in Saudi Arabia and demanded that Britain should
not trade with such a "disgraceful regime".

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Royal welcome:King Abdullahinspects the troops inHorse Guards
Paradetoday with PrincePhilip, above, andthe Queen watched by hisentourage,
left.Tonight the Queenwill host a statebanquet for the king,whose visit is the
firstby a Saudi monarchfor years

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                                October 30, 2007

Embassy closed as Azerbaijan foils terror attack plot

LENGTH: 376 words


THE British Embassy in Azerbaijan was closed last night after security forces
claimed they had foiled a major Islamist terrorist attack against foreigners.

The Azerbaijani government said diplomatic sites in the capital Baku were among
the targets of a planned "large-scale, horrifying terror attack".

One suspect was killed and several others were detained in an operation outside
the city over the weekend, the national security ministry said.

In a statement, the ministry said the radical Islamic group included an army
lieutenant who had stolen 20 hand grenades, a machine gun, four assault rifles
and ammunition from his military unit and made them available for the planned
attack.

Security forces tracked down the group and arrested several of its members
during a sweep in the village of Mastaga, about 20 miles north east of Baku.

"That prevented a large-scale, horrifying terror attack that was being prepared
by members of this group against several state structures in Baku and embassies
and missions of the countries which are members of the international anti-terror
coalition," the ministry said.

The statement added that a hunt for other members of the group was still under
way.

A spokesman for the ministry said: "Several people belonging to a Wahhabi group
have been detained.

"They were planning terrorist attacks near the US embassy in Baku."

Azerbaijan has forged close ties with the US in recent years, helping complete a
US-supported oil pipeline from the Caspian Sea to Turkey and sending troops to
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Wahhabism, which originated in Saudi Arabia in the 18th century, is rooted in
the idea of restoring Islam's purity by purging the religion of its foreign
influences.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said the situation was being "kept under review"
and no decision had yet been made on when the building would reopen.

The closure has been added to the official travel advice but there has been no
move to warn against travel to the mostly-Muslim state which borders Russia and
Iran.

Although the Foreign Office website notes that the political situation there is
"calm", it also warns that the country faces a terror threat and that attacks
could be "indiscriminate and against civilian targets and places frequented by
foreigners".

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday

Moroccan security on full alert fearing terror attack on border with Algeria

LENGTH: 490 words


Text of report by Abdellatif Rami entitled: "Search is on in Oujda for
terrorists who had infiltrated into Morocco. Smuggling routes are being watched
and intensive police presence is seen outside the local security governor's
office and hotels in the town" published by Moroccan privately-owned newspaper
Assabah website on 30 October

Security services in the eastern region have mobilized their forces in search of
terrorists who, according to information received by the Moroccan Intelligence
services, have infiltrated into the national territory from Algeria.

Informed sources say that Oujda has been the scene of intensive police presence
outside sensitive spots such as the local security headquarters and hotels while
police units have been patrolling the town streets and districts where suspects'
identities are checked and cars are searched.

Likewise, the police have set up checkpoints at the entrances to the town, and
reports indicate that this security mobilization in Oujda and neighbouring towns
is part of police efforts to take preventive measures to stem terrorist danger
following information, described as precise, to the effect that terrorist
elements have infiltrated from Algeria into the national territory.

The same sources add that the encircling by the Algerian army of elements from
the al-Qa'idah Organization in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb  (formerly the
Salafi Group for Call and Combat) has prompted some of its elements to move to
the west of Algeria, in an area adjacent to eastern Morocco, which they consider
as a safe haven.

The same sources do not rule out that a group of the organization mentioned
above has infiltrated into Oujda, and now it would be reckless for them to
return to Algeria because of the security measures taken there.

There have been no information about the identity of the persons wanted in Oujda
and other places but according to other sources five suspects are thought to be
present in the eastern region. This has led all local police services units to
take preventive measures, from the border line to sensitive spots in the area,
and to mobilize special squads to control the smuggling routes that terrorists
may use to cross into the national territory.

In this respect, Algerian media sources say that intensive security measures
taken by the Algerian security services have enabled them to confiscate bombs
and weapons in the Algerian western region that is adjacent to Morocco,
including Tlemcen and Maghnia which is only 30 km away from Oujda.

Moreover, official sources have told Assabah that the security services
mobilization in Oujda these days has been extended to neighbouring towns like
Taourirt whose eastern entrances have been blocked by checkpoints all day. The
police there check the identity cards of travellers and stop those who are not
carrying them, while security patrols tour working class quarters.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 30 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          October 31, 2007, Wednesday

PRIVATE SCHOOL NEDS;
TWO DADS AND BOY BATTERED AS THUGS TARGET KIDS' PARTY FIVE IN COURT OVER ATTACK
WHICH LEFT YOUNGSTERS SCREAMING IN TERROR

BYLINE: By Janice Burns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 742 words


FIVE pupils at a top private school caused mayhem when they tried to gatecrash a
girl's 15th birthday party in a posh suburb.

Violence flared as parents arrived to collect their children and the baying mob
- members of a gang known as the Aerosol Junkies - ran riot.

One 14-year-old boy was attacked with a bottle and two adults who went to help
were beaten to the ground in a hail of kicks and punches by the teenage thugs -
all of them pupils from pounds 8000-a-year Hutchesons' Grammar School in
Crossmyloof, Glasgow.

Partygoers aged around 14 and 15 barricaded themselves inside the house as the
gang tried to smash the doors down.

Wealthy restaurateur Margaret Campbell, 46, said: "They turned my daughter
Anna's party into something like Rwanda. It was like a war situation.

"I have never experienced - nor ever want to again - anything as terrifying as
this in my whole life.

"None of us had ever met these boys before that night but we had heard that
there was a gang of private school kids whose raison d'etre was to gatecrash
parties and to trash houses.

"We all feared for our lives that night and I was convinced that if they had had
machetes they would have chopped us all up. They were so aggressive and craving
violence."

At Glasgow Sheriff Court yesterday, Finn Wilkie, 18, of Dargarvel Avenue,
Dumbreck, Anthony Carson, 18, of Priorwood Way, Newton Mearns, Matthew Fife, 18,
of Blairbeth Road, Burnside, Kieran Holohan, 18, of Bruce Road, Pollokshields,
and Jonathan Daly, 17, of Blair Gardens, Newton Mearns, all admitted breach of
the peace.

Carson, Fife, Holohan and Daly admitted assault.

Trouble flared in March last year as parents arrived to collect youngsters from
the party in an exclusive part of Pollokshields, Glasgow, where houses often
sell for more than pounds 600,000.

Depute fiscal Derek Buchanan said the five began shouting at young girls leaving
the party: "Get your bums out."

A 14-year-old boy who left the party was smashed on the head with a bottle by
Carson.

Brian Morris, 46, who was waiting in his car for his son to leave the party, ran
to the boy's aid.

But he was attacked by Fife, who punched and kicked him on the head and body.

Party host Ronnie Campbell, 43 - who suffers from a heart condition and epilepsy
- tried to help Mr Morris.

But he was targeted by Holohan and Daly, who knocked him down and laid into him
with feet and fists.

All three were taken to the Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow, where they were treated
for cuts and bruises.

Mr Buchanan added: "Mr Morris said he was emotionally traumatised and Mr
Campbell described it as a terrifying incident."

Sheriff Craig Henry deferred sentence on all five until next month for
background reports.

But last night, Mrs Campbell said she was convinced the gang would get away with
it.

She added: "I know these boys won't get a jail sentence, it's just the way it
is.

"They will get off scot-free for terrorising a houseful of adults and children.
The fear we all felt that night was overwhelming.

"We honestly feared for our lives and for the lives of the 30 young children who
were barricaded inside the house.

"This attack on our home was premeditated and their sole intent was to get into
my house and trash the place."

The feared gang - known as the AJs - had previously caused trouble at parties in
the area.

Members knew which house to target as the outside wall was sprayed in advance
with aerosol paint.

Mrs Campbell said: "We were warned by friends that we could not have a party
because these children were going around gatecrashing and trashing houses.

"But we thought that we had every right to throw a party in our own home for our
daughter and that no one would stop us."

She added: "They were like wild animals, like a pack of wolves.

"They were trying to smash their way into our house and they were banging and
kicking on the door and we were fighting them off. They were very violent and
spaced out.

"I knew they wanted to get into my house and trash it and it was really scary.

"There were still about 30 kids inside the house and they were all screaming and
crying.

"It was a nightmare."

The gang fled as the ambulance approached the house but the boys were arrested
days later.

Dr Ken Greig, rector of Hutchesons', said: "Even though the incident took place
at the weekend and out of school, I suspended the boys involved immediately and
they never returned."

'They turned my daughter's party into something like Rwanda. We feared for our
lives'

RECORD VIEW: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHAMED: The five boys outside court yesterday, right, although Holohan
wasn't brave enough to show his face. Main pic, Hutchesons' in Glasgow. Left,
the school logo with the motto "veritas", which means "truth"
PARTY: Margaret Campbell
CARSON
FIFE
WILKIE
DALY
HOLOHAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday

Birthday terror as private school thugs attack party guests

BYLINE: Wilma Riley

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 550 words


FIVE pupils at a top private school caused mayhem at a 15th birthday party when
they turned up uninvited and attacked a young guest.

Trouble flared when parents arrived to collect their children from the party at
a house in Glasgow's Pollokshields.

Glasgow Sheriff Court yesterday heard that the five, who at the time were all
pupils of the £8,000-a-year Hutcheson's Grammar School, began shouting at young
girls coming out of the party: 'Get your bums out!' A teenage boy was then
attacked with a bottle, while a man who went to his aid was punched and kicked
and the party host was then knocked to the ground and assaulted.

The court was told that Finn Wilkie, 18, of Dumbreck; Anthony Carson, 18, of
Newton Mearns; Matthew Fife, 18, of Burnside; Kieran Holohan, 18, of
Pollokshields and Jonathan Daly, 17, of Newton Mearns, were standing outside,
shouting and swearing.

Depute fiscal Derek Buchanan said that Carson then attacked a 14-yearold boy as
he left the party, striking him on the head with a bottle.

Brian Morris, 46, who was waiting in his car for his son to leave the party, saw
the assault and went to help, but was assaulted by Fife, who punched and kicked
him in the head and body.

Party host Ronnie Campbell, 43, who owns a Glasgow restaurant, tried to help Mr
Morris, but was attacked by Holohan and Daly.

He was knocked to the ground and repeatedly punched and kicked in the head and
body.

As Mr Campbell was being assaulted, his wife Margaret was shouting at the
accused to stop, and telling her husband to get inside the house.

Daly was seen with a chain wrapped round his hand, swinging it. At this point,
all the accused, with the exception of Wilkie, approached the front door.

They were banging and kicking at the door and shouting and swearing. Mr Buchanan
added: 'The occupants of the house, including a number of children, were
hysterical and crying at that point.

'The Campbells managed to close the door and the police and ambulance were
called.' In court, all five accused admitted committing a breach of the peace at
Maxwell Drive, Glasgow, on March 25, 2006.

Carson admitted assaulting the 14-year-old boy, Fife admitted assaulting Mr
Morris, and Holohan and Daly admitted assaulting Mr Campbell. Mr Buchanan said:
'Each of the accused was a pupil at Hutcheson's Grammar at the time of these
incidents. Mr Carson has a previous conviction. The others have no previous
convictions.

'On March 25 last year, Mr Campbell and his wife Margaret held a birthday party
for their daughter's 15th at their home.

There were about 60 guests.

None of the accused had been invited to this party.

'Wilkie and Holohan had entered the back garden and it had been made clear to
them that the party was for younger children. They were asked to leave, and did
so. Around midnight, as the party was finishing and the street was busy with
taxis and parents collecting their children, the accused turned up.' All three
victims were taken to the Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow, where they were treated
for cuts and bruises.

Mr Buchanan added: 'Mr Morris said he was emotionally traumatised and Mr
Campbell, who suffers from a heart condition and epilepsy, described it as a
terrifying incident.' Sheriff Craig Henry deferred sentence for background
reports until next month, when pleas in mitigation will be heard..

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) Host: Ronnie Campbell (2) Attack: Matthew Fife (3) Previous
conviction: Anthony Carson (4) Assault: Jonathan Daly (5) Guilty plea: Finn
Wilkie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday

After four-month court case, Spain is braced for verdicts in train bombings that
killed 191: Eight main suspects face maximum 40-year terms: Terror attacks were
worst in Europe since Lockerbie

BYLINE: Paul Hamilos, Madrid

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 663 words


The verdict on those accused of involvement in Europe's worst Islamist terrorist
attack will be announced in a Spanish court today after a trial that has lasted
four months and 17 days and heard testimony from more than 300 witnesses.

If found guilty, 19 men, mostly of Moroccan origin, will be sentenced on charges
of planning and carrying out the bombings on the morning of March 11 2004, as
thousands of commuters made their way to work. Ten bombs packed with dynamite
and nails exploded on four trains heading into central Madrid, killing 191
people and injuring nearly 1,800. It was the worst act of terrorism in Europe
since the bombing of a Pan Am flight over Lockerbie in 1988, which claimed 270
lives. Nine Spaniards, including one woman, are also accused of providing the
explosives used by the alleged terrorists.

The eight main defendants could serve 40 years, the longest possible in Spain
regardless of the sentence actually passed. Other alleged conspirators face
between four and 27 years. All of the accused have pleaded not guilty.

Three weeks after the bombings, seven of the alleged ringleaders blew themselves
up as Spanish police surrounded them in a flat where they were hiding out,
taking with them vital evidence. Among the dead were Serhane Ben Abdelmajid,
known as the Tunisian and the alleged mastermind of the plot, and Jamal Ahmidan,
a hashish trafficker turned fundamentalist nicknamed the Chinaman.

At least four suspects, including two who may have been central to the attack,
have disappeared. One is understood to have died in a suicide attack in Iraq.

The figure who drew most attention at the trial was Rabei Osman, said to be the
link between the Madrid bombers and other Islamist terrorist groups. Mr Osman,
also known as the Egyptian, was arrested in Milan in June 2004 after allegedly
saying in wiretapped conversations that he planned the train bombings. Mr Osman
claims he has been mistranslated, and condemned the attacks during the trial.

Suspects accused of planting the bombs include Jamal Zougam and Abdelmajid
Bouchar. The latter is said to have fled the flat in Leganes just before the
alleged ringleaders killed themselves.

The events of 11-M, as the attacks are known in Spain, initially divided the
country along political lines. The bombings were carried out three days before a
general election, in which the incumbent conservative Popular party (PP) of Jose
Maria Aznar was defeated by the Spanish Socialist Workers party (PSOE) led by
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. It is argued that the bombers intended their
attacks to force a change of government and the withdrawal of Spanish troops
from Iraq, one of the PSOE's campaign pledges.

From the moment of the attacks, the PP argued that they were the work of the
Basque separatist group Eta. Mr Aznar phoned newspaper editors, assuring them
this was the case. Despite evidence soon emerging of a van containing detonators
linked to the attacks and a recording of verses from the Qur'an, the PP stuck to
its line. The Eta theory even made its way into court, with lawyers for those
victims' associations supportive of the PP raising the idea of a connection
between Islamist and Basque terrorism. No evidence of such a link has been put
forward.

Rogelio Alonso, a lecturer in politics and terrorism at the King Juan Carlos
university, said he believed the trial had shown that "it is possible to fight
this type of (Islamist) terrorism through the courts". He also said the
investigation had uncovered a link between the Madrid suspects and the wider
world of al-Qaida.

However, Scott Atran, a US academic who has investigated the Hamburg cell
connected to the 9/11 attacks as well as those behind the Bali bomb attacks of
2002, and who witnessed the trial, said: "There isn't the slightest bit of
evidence of any relationship with al-Qaida. We've been looking at it closely for
years and we've been briefed by everybody under the sun . . . and nothing
connects them."

guardian.co.uk/spain

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday

Tanzania: Defence ministry says Zanzibar not vulnerable to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 302 words


Text of report by Pastory Nguvu entitled "Defence ministry reassures Zanzibar is
secure from terrorist attacks" published by Tanzanian newspaper The Guardian
website on 1 November

The government on Tuesday [29 October] reassured that Zanzibar was not
vulnerable to terrorist attacks compared to other countries in the world.

The deputy minister for defence and national service, Omar Yussuf Mzee, made the
statement when responding to a question by the Singida North legislator, Lazaro
Nyalandu (CCM).

Nyalandu had wanted to know if Zanzibar and Pemba were vulnerable to terrorists'
attacks.

Responding on behalf of the minister for defence and national services, the
deputy minister said that the islands were not in any way under terrorist
threat.

"Terrorism around the world seems to have no boundary because of its big network
in a number of areas. Terrorist acts can take place any where including in the
two islands.

However, Pemba and Unguja islands are not in danger of terrorism in comparison
to other countries in the world," he said.

Asked on plans by the country's armed forces to improve and strengthen artillery
to protect the country against both, nearby and distant enemies, including the
purchase of attack helicopters; the deputy minister said that the defence force
was very keen over the country's security and was capable of engaging all
enemies.

Mzee said that the defence forces had undergone modern military training, had
adequate equipment and modern military arsenals to protect the country.

"In addition to that the Ministry of Defence and National Service has prepared
short and long term development programmes on how to improve and strengthen the
army. The plan also focuses on the purchase of modern military equipment" he
said.

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 1 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday

Bosnia's Abu Hamza denies threatening Austria with terrorist attack

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report by Bosnian newspaper Oslobodjenje on 27 October

[Report by N. Cano: "Abu Hamza To Sue Media"]

Syrian-born Imad Al-Hussein, better known in our country as Abu Hamza, will file
charges against those media that reported that he had threatened Austria with
attacks from Islamist fundamentalists.

"Having consulted my lawyer, I decided not to comment on these reports. However,
I will sue all the media outlets that run the report on the grounds that they
did not contact me beforehand to check if the information was true," Abu Hamza
told us on Friday [26 October] in response to our request for comment on a
report in the Austrian [monthly] magazine Datum which alleged that Abu Hamza had
issued a threat in an interview with the magazine.

However, when we spoke to him, Abu Hamza could not remember if he had given the
interview to Datum at all, explaining that he had recently had a whole series of
media contacts. Abu Hamza is facing deportation from Bosnia-Hercegovina.

To recall, on Thursday, the Croatian Internet portal Index.hr reported that the
Austrian monthly Datum was going to publish in its next issue an interview with
Abu Hamza who gave the deployment of Austrian troops in Afghanistan as the
reason for his threat.

Source: Oslobodjenje, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 27 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday

Foreign interests behind terror attacks in Algeria says interior minister

LENGTH: 132 words


Text of report by Qatari Al-Jazeera satellite TV on 31 October

The Algerian minister of [state for] Interior [and Local Authorities],
Noureddine Yazid Zerhouni, has said that foreign interests are behind the terror
attacks that target Algeria. Zerhouni added that the existence of the Al-Qa'idah
Organization in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb does not constitute a factor
which contributes in the deterioration of the [security] situation or affects
stability, according to him.

Regarding the lot of the founder of the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC],
Hassan Hattab, who surrendered to the [Algerian] authorities in last September,
Zerhouni said that Hattab is involved in criminal cases and he will benefit from
a fair trial.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2200 gmt 31 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 1, 2007, Thursday
                                 Mersey Edition

Firework terror in off-licence attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 123 words


A BABY escaped serious injury after a man in Halloween fancy dress set off an
industrial-style firework in an off-licence, said police.

The man, who was wearing a skeleton mask, exploded a firework containing up to
200 rockets inside the shop in Tonge Moor Road, Bolton.

The shopkeeper reacted quickly and managed to kick the firework into the shop's
porch where it was contained until it went out. He was uninjured, but his
15-monthold son was taken to Royal Bolton Hospital as a precaution after
vomiting due to smoke inhalation.

Officers and firefighters were called to the scene and the firework was made
safe.

It is believed to have been a Fantasia 218 and police are keen to hear from any
retailers who may have sold this firework to anyone.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The firework goes off

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 2, 2007 Friday

Rumsfeld 'kept up fear of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Alex Spillius in Washington

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 260 words


DONALD Rumsfeld, the former United States defence secretary, tried to maintain
an atmosphere of fear in America as part of the Iraq war propaganda campaign, a
series of leaked memos has shown.

One memo, written in April 2006, contained a list of instructions to Pentagon
staff including "Keep elevating the threat'' and "Talk about Somalia, the
Philippines etc. Make the American people realise they are surrounded in the
world by violent extremists''.

Another said "link Iraq to Iran. Iran is the concern of the American people, and
if we fail in Iraq, it will advantage Iran''. He also urged staff to produce
"bumper sticker statements'' to rally the public around the war.

The memos, written between 2002 until shortly after his resignation in 2006,
were leaked by undisclosed sources to the Washington Post. Rumsfeld was
unpopular with many for his tough management style.

The newspaper reported that his emails were so numerous they were called
"snowflakes''. He would send between 20 and 60 a day, often instructing his team
to refute negative news stories in the media.

One note will please Vladimir Putin, the Russian president. It said: "We are
getting run out of Central Asia by the Russians. They are doing a considerably
better job at bullying those countries than the US is doing to counter their
bullying.''

Keith Urbahn, an aide to Mr Rumsfeld, told the Washington Post that the
published memos were "selective'' and "gross mischaracterisations'' carefully
picked from some 20,000 while he was defence secretary. There was no comment
from Mr Rumsfeld.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 3, 2007, Saturday

Brothers in bungled anti-terrorism raid say armed officers attacked them again

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill Crime Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words


* They were 'thrown to ground and threatened'

* Police were heard to shout: shoot him!

Two brothers arrested at gunpoint in the bungled Forest Gate anti-terrorism raid
last year were threatened by armed police only weeks before the start of the de
Menezes trial, The Times has learnt.

The incident will put Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, under
more pressure as he fights to keep his job after a jury convicted his force of
catastophic errors resulting in the death of Jean Charles de Menezes.

Abdul Kahar Kalam, 24, who was shot and wounded by police in the dawn raid in
East London last year, and his brother, Abul Koyair Kalam, 21, say that they
were hauled off a motorbike by officers police shouting "Shoot him! Shoot him!
Put him down!"

As many as eight armed officers surrounded the men, allegedly calling them
"F***ing Pakis" and shouting: "That's the two brothers."

Lawyers for the brothers said yesterday that they feared for their lives after
their second encounter with armed officers. They have asked Sir Ian to ensure
that they are subjected to no further harassment.

Sir Ian is resisting calls to resign and says that he has made it his "personal
task" to ensure that the lessons of Mr de Menezes's death were incorporated into
police training and operations.

Gareth Peirce, solicitor for the Kalam brothers, has written to Sir Ian saying:
"It is entirely clear to us that the police have not been required to learn more
lessons as a result of their behaviour in Forest Gate a year ago."

The latest incident occurred at the end of August, 14 months after the Forest
Gate raid and five weeks before Scotland Yard's firearms tactics were put on
trial at the Old Bailey.

In a written account seen by The Times the brothers said that they drove past
the scene of an armed police raid near their home in East London, and were
followed and stopped. They said that up to eight armed officers pulled them from
the motorbike, throwing Kahar against some shop shutters and hurling Koyair to
the ground.

They claimed that they heard the officers referring to them as "the brothers"
and saying "they're the ones".

The men believe the officers knew that they had been arrested in June last year,
when police raided their home acting on incorrect intelligence that they were
hiding an explosive device. Kahar said he asked the officers: "Why are you doing
this to us again?"

One of them allegedly replied: "We have our reasons."

The men's sister was passing on a bus as the police were handcuffing her
brothers and disembarked to remonstrate with the officers.

She said she heard the officers referring to Kahar as a "f***ing Paki" to which
he replied: "Yes, I'm proud to be a Paki." The woman, who has asked not to be
named, also heard police say: "That's the two brothers."

Another officer asked: "How many millions did you get?" The comment was thought
to be a reference to the family's claim for damages.

An independent witness saw the incident unfold and said in a statement that
officers could be heard shouting: "Shoot him! Shoot him!"

The witness added: "There was a lot of shouting and everything happened very
fast.

I heard the man who was driving the bike shout 'Why are you trying to shoot
me?'."

The brothers were held in handcuffs for ten minutes before being set free. As
they were released they were allegedly told that they should think themselves
lucky.

As their sister walked home, however, she was arrested by a uniformed police
officer with whom she had exchanged angry words. She was taken to Forest Gate
police station where she was held for 12 hours before being issued with a fixed
penalty notice under the Public Order Act for causing harassment, alarm or
distress.

Ms Peirce responded to the incident by writing a personal letter to Sir Ian
about the "appalling situation" now faced by the family. She said: "The two
brothers were again seized and threatened by armed police; threatened with being
shot, assaulted and handcuffed and thrown on the ground without reason. They
were then released and told to 'think themselves lucky'..."

She added: "Many Londoners, including the Kalam family, feel unsafe knowing that
the same armed police officers are flagrantly and flamboyantly behaving in a way
than endangers the citizens of London."

Ms Peirce did not receive a reply directly from Sir Ian but from a commander in
the Met's Directorate of Professional Standards. It said that Sir Ian was
"unable to provide any guarantees to your clients or any other member of the
public that they will not be involved in any police incident, armed or
otherwise".

The family rejected a complaints inquiry because of its disappointment with the
Independent Police Complaints Commission report into the original raid. That
cleared the police of wrongdoing but ordered Scotland Yard to make a public
apology.

Police said: "Legal representatives of the individuals involved made it clear
they did not want the matter investigated as a complaint and therefore no
investigation took place. The IPCC were kept informed of the situation."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday

Editorial recalls 1988 "mercenary terrorist attack" on Maldives

LENGTH: 323 words


Text of report by Maldives privately-owned newspaper Haveeru Daily website on 4
November

Editorial headlined "Preserving the heritage of the martyrs"

Male, 4 November: Yesterday marked the 19th "anniversary" of a mercenary
terrorist attack on the Maldives. Some members of the public and security forces
were killed during the attack on 3 November 1988. The attack threw Maldives'
sense of peace and security into doldrums.

There is a tendency for history to repeat itself, and we have to keep in mind
that due to globalization, Maldives is now quite open to the international
community.

Now foreign pressure is felt on domestic affairs and foreigners hold key stakes
in the Maldives' economy as well. In this atmosphere of interaction, we need to
ensure that Maldives' relations with the rest of the world are strengthened and
beneficial.

Earlier, Maldives was more concerned about consolidating ties with Islamic
countries and South Asian neighbours. However, in order to ensure the security
of the nation, much attention is now being given to strengthen ties with other
countries as well. In this regard, Maldives has already opened embassies in key
developmental partner countries. This will ensure that progress is made in the
political and social hemisphere of Maldives. This foreign policy no doubt will
be of benefit for all Maldivian people.

The day the terrorist attack took place, which we now mark as Victory Day, was a
bitter chapter in the recent history of the republic. Valuable lessons were
learnt from it and the country is making sure that such a scenario will not come
to pass ever again. This means streamlining developmental activities taking into
account modern and international best practices.

Preserving the memory of Victory Day is an important task in order to make
future generations aware that the country is quite vulnerable to conspiracies
and shady agendas.

Source: Haveeru Daily website, Male, in English 4 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                November 4, 2007

Observer Magazine: Accidental hero: A cigarette break one evening in late June
changed baggage handler John Smeaton's mundane, ordinary life into one of media
interviews, international travel and awards ceremonies. He tells Simon Garfield
how his role in helping to foil the terrorist attack on Glasgow airport led to
his 'wee touch' of fame.

BYLINE: Simon Garfield

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 3165 words


On Sunday 1 July, John Smeaton woke up at his family home in Erskine, on the
outskirts of Glasgow, to find he had not yet become a star. But it was only a
matter of hours. He was on his way to work at Glasgow airport, where he had been
employed as a baggage handler for more than 12 years, when his phone rang. It
was ITN, wondering if they could interview him about what had happened the day
before.

This was no problem. Before he did the interview that afternoon, a colleague
came up to him and said, 'What did you do that for, you maddie?' Smeaton
remembers replying, 'You tell me. I just wasn't thinking right.'

About halfway through his shift he was finding it hard to concentrate on his
work, which involved overseeing the loading and offloading of thousands of bags
a day. His supervisor said, 'Take as much time as you want.'

But there was little respite at home. Everybody was on the phone - ABC, NBC,
CNN. Smeaton began to regret giving one reporter his mobile phone number. Some
of the requests for interviews carried a financial incentive. 'I didn't want to
sell my story at all,' Smeaton remembers. 'I just wanted to keep my head down
and wait for it to blow over. But my friends said, "There's no way you're going
to sit there and get nothing out of this." I was like, "I don't want to be in
the papers."'

One of his friends began calling the newspapers to solicit offers for Smeaton's
story, something that annoyed Smeaton at the time. 'But he was only looking
after me, saying, "You earn bugger all, so if you get something out of this
you've got to take it."' The News of the World tracked Smeaton down in
Cambridge, where he was attending his cousin's wedding. 'So I spoke to them. I
thought it would all be over in a week. You know - that's it. I never thought it
would get to the point where I would meet the Prime Minister three times and
have my photograph taken dressed up as James Bond.'

What does it take to be a hero in today's world? A certain amount of incendiary
courage. A willingness to take risks, to do what others might not. A hungry
media heading towards a slow summer. And of course it takes a sound bite. For
Smeaton this came naturally: 'Glasgow doesnae accept this; if you come tae
Glasgow, we'll set aboot ye.'

He was referring to his part in foiling the attack on Glasgow airport by two men
in a Jeep Cherokee in the early evening of Saturday 30 June. Smeaton was having
a cigarette break midway through his shift when he heard a commotion and people
screaming by the main departures entrance, and he saw a car in flames. His first
thought was that it was a terrible accident - that the driver had lost control.
As he ran to help, Smeaton saw one of the men in the car get out and hit a
policeman, and he came to the policeman's defence by kicking the assailant. He
wasn't alone. 'Me and other folk were just trying to get the boot in and some
other guy banjoed [punched] him,' he explained. 'We tried to subdue the guy, but
he's a big boy, he's no for being subdued. He was speaking Arabic, and he was
shouting, "something Allah, something Allah". Every time he threw a punch he was
saying Allah.' Another man who had run to the scene, Michael Kerr, also began
hitting the man who had stumbled from the car, but he broke his own leg in the
process. Smeaton and a female security guard dragged Kerr from the scene as the
Jeep, which was laden with gas canisters, continued to throw out its flames like
a blowtorch. Then Smeaton saw another man, on fire on the other side of the
Jeep. 'A taxi driver hosed him down,' he told CNN. 'And then he got up and tried
to attack the policeman. Even though he was covered head to toe in flames, bits
breaking off him and everything - very, very determined.'

By the following afternoon, Smeaton was already becoming a celebrity. Television
interviewers asked him to repeat his warnings, and he did so with pride: 'You're
nae hitting the polis, mate, there's nae chance. . . we'll set aboot ye!' As
Time magazine noted, he retold his account with 'dramatic pauses and the
inflated diction of a policeman giving evidence: "I saw a man egress the
vehicle. . ."'. The other men who came to the aid of the police that evening
were not so easily accessible - Stephen Clarkson was a groundsman at the
airport, and the other two, Michael Kerr and Alex McIlveen, were passengers -
and so it was Smeaton who took on the mantle of spokesman for the event. He
served two purposes. He explained as best he could what had happened, and he
fulfilled a need we evidently have: growing more heroic with every phrase and
gesticulation, he was an ordinary John who helped make the world a safer place.

It may have been that one of the suspects would have escaped without his
intervention (the burned man died a few weeks after the attack, but the second
man is awaiting trial, and Smeaton will be required to repeat his story as a key
witness), although it may also be that the two men would have been restrained
even if he hadn't been there, if his cigarettes had called him out five minutes
later. But this has never been the point. What we admire is that Smeaton got
involved, and spoke his mind. Within a few hours there was a website in his
name, where pints could be bought for him via PayPal. Within days he had his own
column in the Scottish edition of the Sun . And now on eBay there are T-shirts
promoting 'The Smeatonator', and others emblazoned, 'We'll Set Aboot Yi,'
'Glesgaes Gonna Get You' and 'What Would John Smeaton Do?'. The vendor of the
latter item introduces it to potential purchasers with the line, 'Next time
you're faced with a difficult, life-changing decision to make, just ask yourself
one simple question. . .' He also sells a shirt with the slogan, 'Proudly
Banjoing Terrorists Since 2007'.

John Smeaton, who is 31, is a reluctant hero, but his reluctance is tempered
with inquisitiveness, like a young person on a blind date. He is telling his
story during dinner at the Erskine Bridge Hotel, a five-minute drive from his
home, and with each insistence that he is just an average bloke who did what any
decent person would have done, comes a certain relish in the absurdity of his
new status. The more he objects, the more he is celebrated. He is wearing a
crisp blue untucked shirt and jeans, and his light brown hair is cut into a neat
short fringe. There is a sparkle in his voice, and his accent is heavy to
foreign ears, requiring the insertion of subtitles when his thoughts were
broadcast in Australia.

He orders tomato and mozzarella salad, and then steak, and when the main course
appears there are, by oversight, three different servings of potatoes - chunks,
chips and new - and Smeaton's reaction is, 'Brilliant!'

The waitress recognises him and smiles. 'It's unbelievable,' he says. 'When
people pass me in the airport they do a double-take and say, "That's John
Smeaton!" I'm peeing myself, because I've walked through there every day for 12
years.'

Smeaton hasn't always been a baggage handler, although he says it sometimes
feels like it. He grew up in Bishopton, a suburb of Glasgow, his mother a
pharmacist, his father a financial manager at the Argyle and Clyde Health Board.
They lived near a farm, and he describes a carefree childhood with his two older
sisters. 'In the summer it was two-man tag in the woods and in the winter it was
snowball fights between the neighbouring roads. You didn't play on computer
games, you played outside. Now I think most kids are just into X Factor and
"let's be famous", but I've had a wee touch of what it's like to be famous, and
it's not particularly great.'

At school, Smeaton was good at history and modern studies, but he was a dreamer
and failed to apply himself. He says that if he was able to, he'd go back now
and hit himself, so full was his head of Star Wars . He left school at 16, and
saw things changing around him: the Royal Ordnance factory closed, Compaq came
in. He wanted to be a joiner, and began on tiny wages with the Construction
Industry Training Board, building the chalets at the 5-star Cameron House Hotel
at Loch Lomond. He left at 19 with a belief that he was being exploited, and
applied for a job at the airport. In a nervous act that may now be seen as
apposite, he crashed his car near the entrance. The role of baggage handler
didn't require an arduous interview - 'Do you have a criminal record, do you
live near, can you drive?' - but the job was gruelling. 'I was "hold fodder",
working inside the aircraft, chucking the bags out, and then waiting for the
next load to put in. In some of the holds you can't stand fully, and I'm 5ft
10in, and you have to watch it because you'll always be hitting your back or
head.'

When the dessert menu arrives, Smeaton is faced with a tough call. 'Cheesecake
or chocolate mousse?' he asks. 'Cheesecake, mousse, cheesecake, mousse.' After a
pause, he concludes he has 'always been a cheesecake man'.

Before it arrives, there is a rant against budget airlines. 'Aircraft on the
ground lose money, aircraft in the air make money. Your bag gets treated like
absolute crap. The way people's bags are handled, it's not right. It's not like
you've got an hour, you've only got 20 minutes. We don't treat the bags with
contempt or try to break them,     but you do have to chuck them in and they do
get slung about. It really annoys me when people fly so cheaply, but you get
what you pay for.'

Smeaton is now a supervisor, working four days on and two off, two of his shifts
lasting until 11pm or later if planes are delayed. He will go back in the hold
if one of his charges calls in sick. 'I've actually seen kitchen sinks go as
luggage on aircraft. I've seen people take lengths of wood with them. You know,
do they not have the equivalent of B&Q in Spain? And don't even get me started
about golfers - I'm sure they're very nice guys, but do you really think I'm
going to lift your golfclubs? I really hate it. Skis are a lot easier - you can
manipulate them and pivot them. But golf clubs - there are 40 or 50 sets to deal
with on some flights. And the hold of the aircraft isn't big enough to take
them, and you're thinking, "Right, whose clubs are going to miss [the flight]?
I'm sorry, but someone's going to get over to Malaga without their clubs."'

I ask him about missing bags. 'Things fall off trailers,' he says. 'And the tag
comes off.' He advises his friends to label their cases in two or three places
with their name, flight number and destination. 'Don't put your return address
on, because you don't know who is looking at your case. There's probably someone
who's going, "Oh, they're around the corner from me, they're away on holiday,
well, I might have a wee chat with. . . or go around looking at their house."'

Smeaton was working at the airport on 9/11, and he heard the news of the first
plane on the radio. 'I was with my big mate Rab. I said, "Rab, you hear that, a
plane has crashed into the World Trade Center." He goes, "Oh aye, must have been
a wee Cessna." And then 20 minutes later, when the second one crashes, within a
minute there's a phonecall: "Every single bit of hand luggage has to be checked
in." And we're going, "Oh great, instead of one trailer's worth of bags there
are now two trailers' worth of bags. When things like that happen, you have to
work harder. People are having to work 18-hour shifts, and they don't get any
thanks for it.'

Was he nervous about handling people's bags after the attack? 'Not at all. It
never entered my wildest dreams that anyone would want to attack Glasgow
airport. It was the other side of the world - it would never happen here.'

The following morning I visit Smeaton at his house (he used to live with a
girlfriend, but the relationship broke up a few weeks before he became famous).
We are going to the airport together, but he isn't going to work. Instead, he is
travelling to the Pride of Britain Awards in London with his fellow heroes. He
greets me in good spirits, but as he drinks tea on the sofa his mood changes,
and he puts his head in his hands. 'I really don't want to go,' he says. 'If I
could do it up here it would be fine, or travel down and back in a day, but
another two nights in a hotel is going to do my head in. I've run about the last
six or seven weeks and I'm exhausted - you know, give me back my quiet, mundane,
ordinary life. Now it's "go here, do this". I have said no to a lot of things.
All I really want to do is sleep in my own bed.'

I suggest there must be some financial benefit from all this attention.

'Oh, it's a laugh when people say, "Oh, you're making a fortune!" I do get a wee
bit of money, but if I was making a fortune, do you think I'd still be lifting
people's bags? I'd be paying people to lift my bags for me.'

His parents, who are retired, express pride in their son, but they can see he is
feeling the strain. 'He's coped very well,' says his mother, Cathrine, 'although
there has been the occasional wobble.' His father, [???], says, 'What I'd really
like John to get out of this is a new job.'

His father drives us to the airport, and on the way Smeaton talks about how
things have changed in the area, and about past trips to London and beyond,
necessitated by his new fame. Before July he had only visited London once
before, changing trains on his way to a carpentry job. In the past few weeks he
has travelled down for interviews with Richard and Judy and Lorraine Kelly, and
to meet Gordon Brown.

'It was beyond a joke,' he says of his visit to Number 10. 'You go in, it's like
a Tardis in there, I'm asked into another room, and I'm standing there thinking,
"Oh my God", and     the next minute the Prime Minister comes through and he's,
"Hi, how are you doing? Come with me." So we go into another room, and it's just
me and him, no advisors or anybody, and we're just sitting there and we have a
great chat. He wanted to know about me, what my mother and father did, how I got
to be doing what I was doing, and what happened that day. He was really taking
it in, and I'm not a fan of politicians, but I was really impressed by him.
Maybe he's not got the charisma of Alex Salmond, but they're two very good
leaders.'

After 15 minutes, Brown offered to give Smeaton a tour. They visited the cabinet
room, and met David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary. Smeaton remembers saying to
his mother on the way back to the airport, 'Just unbelievable! These are the
guys I've seen on telly.'

But there was more to come. Smeaton met the Prime Minister again towards the end
of September at the Labour Party conference in Bournemouth, where he thought he
had just been invited as a guest. Early in his speech, Brown said: 'When the
terrorists tried to attack Scotland's biggest airport, they were answered by the
courage of the police and the firefighters - and a baggage handler named John
Smeaton. He came to the aid of a policeman under assault from one of the
terrorists. That man, that hero, John Smeaton is here with us today - and on
behalf of our country I want to thank you.' Smeaton waved from his seat in the
hall, and only later concluded: 'It was the most important speech of the Prime
Minister's life. You go down in history.' Smeaton received a standing ovation,
but it wasn't as loud as the one he got at Ibrox some weeks before, 50,000
football fans chanting his name before a friendly between Rangers, the team he
has followed all his life, and Chelsea.

And then it was New York. He met the president of the Scottish-American Society,
ate a huge, huge steak, shook the hands of fire chiefs and visited Ground Zero.
In SoHo, he went to a restaurant called Balthazar, where he was introduced to
the Hiltons, the hotel heirs and real estate mavens, Paris's mum and dad.
'Totally, totally crazy!' Smeaton remembers. 'But people in the restaurant are
pointing at me, the same way they're pointing at them.'

We arrive at the airport, and Smeaton shows me where he was standing when the
attack took place. He is reluctant to relive the situation in detail. In the
departure lounge, he describes the names and trailer routes taken by those who
would normally be in his charge. He meets up with Michael Kerr, Alex McIlveen
and Stephen Clarkson. The night before, Smeaton had twice asked me not to forget
about the other guys. 'It was just that it was me who was caught on telly saying
those words, which has kind of immortalised me in a lot of people's minds. Yes,
"We'll set aboot ye."'

I asked him if he regretted it.

'In a way I regret it, because the other three boys did as much as me.'

But they don't resent you?

'No, I don't think so. It's just that I was on the television, and people took
to it.'

As they chat at the airport, there is no resentment at all; they look like young
soldiers joking about anything other than the event that brought them together.
And Smeaton has a particularly good story to tell - he is scared of flying.

The takeoff and landing?

'The whole thing. It seems so unnatural.'

On board, there is a familiar announcement. Two passengers have checked in bags
but have failed to make it to the plane. 'It happens day in, day out,' Smeaton
sighs. 'A passenger can fly without the bag, but the bag cannot fly without the
passenger. So someone has to go in the hold, and they'll have a baggage number
and a scanning code, and they'll see if the supervisor has done his job right.
As you load the hold you have what we call bingo cards, which tell you which
trailer you've put where, so you have some idea of where it might be. But there
may be 140 bags to get through before you get to it, and because the passenger's
not there, they can't give you a description, so you don't know if it's a
holdall, or a huge case, or a set of skis, or a set of lovely golf clubs.'

That evening at his hotel he attended a rehearsal dinner for all the recipients
of Pride of Britain awards, hosted by Carol Vorderman, and his cynical air
evaporated. 'It was awesome,' he told me the next day. 'All these incredible
stories, like the couple who have run a foster home for 40 years, and a girl who
had cancer who had written a book for other children with cancer.'

He heard that he and his friends would be given their awards by the Prime
Minister and his wife, Sarah, and that there will be another trip to Downing
Street the following morning. 'I'll be able to show the others around,' he says.
'With my pal Gordo.'

The last time I spoke to him on the phone, Smeaton's diary was still full. There
was a charity song to record with Miss Scotland. There was another flight to the
United States for a CNN tribute, and the possibility of a trip to Iraq to meet
the troops. He was running out of holidays from work, and he was still
struggling with his conscience and his roots. 'I'm just a baggage handler,' he
reasoned again. He had promised himself that he would continue his heroic parade
until Christmas, and after that he would go back to his normal and anonymous
life. 'That's the idea,' he said, 'although I've never been a great one for
long-term plans.'


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Al Qaeda 'grooming' youngsters for UK terror attacks

BYLINE: ALAN MacDERMID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 343 words


AL Qaeda has begun "grooming" children and young people to carry out terror
attacks in Britain, the head ofMI5 has warned.

In his first public speech since becoming director general in April, Jonathan
Evans said the security service now knew of at least 2000 individuals who posed
a "direct threat to national security and public safety".

However, he saidMI5's efforts to counter the terrorist threat were being
hampered by the need to divert resources to tackle "unreconstructed" spying by
old ColdWar adversaries such as Russia and China.

Addressing the Society of Editors conference inManchester yesterday, Mr Evans
said that the number of individuals identified as having links with terrorism
had risen by 400 since the last assessment of 1600 by his predecessor, Dame
Eliza Manningham-Buller, a year ago.

AndMI5 suspected that there could be another 2000 about whom it knew nothing.

Mr Evans warned the terrorist problem had not yet reached its peak and he
endorsed Prime Minister Gordon Brown's assessment that Britain was facing a
"generation-long challenge" to defeat it.

"Terrorist attacks we have seen against the UK are not simply random plots by
disparate and fragmented groups, " he said.

"The majority of these attacks, successful or otherwise, have taken place
because al Qaeda has a clear determination to mount terrorist attacks against
the United Kingdom."

Mr Evans highlighted the way that al Qaeda was targeting vulnerable young people
as terrorist recruits, with teenagers as young as 15 and 16 having been
implicated in terrorist plots.

"As I speak, terrorists are methodically and intentionally targeting young
people and children in this country, " he said.

"They are radicalising, indoctrinating and grooming young, vulnerable people to
carry out acts of terrorism."

Mr Evans also said it was a matter of "some disappointment" thatMI5 was still
having to deal with "unreconstructed attempts" at spying by countries like China
and Russia which still had the same number of undeclared intelligence officers
in the UK as it did during the ColdWar.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday

Al-Qaida 'grooming children to carry out British terror attacks'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 442 words


Jonathan Evans said the security service knew of at least 2,000 individuals who
posed a "direct threat to national security and public safety" because of their
support for terrorism. However, he said MI5's efforts to counter the terrorist
threat were being hampered by the continuing need to divert resources to tackle
"unreconstructed" spying by old Cold War adversaries such as Russia and China.

Addressing the Society of Editors Conference in Manchester, Mr Evans said that
the number of individuals identified as having links with terrorism had risen by
400 since the last assessment by his predecessor, Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller,
a year ago.

And MI5 suspected there could be another 2,000 about whom they knew nothing, he
said.

Mr Evans warned that the terrorist problem had not yet reached its peak and he
endorsed Prime Minister Gordon Brown's assessment that Britain was facing a
"generation-long challenge" to defeat it.

"Terrorist attacks we have seen against the UK are not simply random plots by
disparate and fragmented groups," he said. "The majority of these attacks,
successful or otherwise, have taken place because al-Qaida has a clear
determination to mount terrorist attacks against the UK."

Mr Evans highlighted the way that al-Qaida was targeting vulnerable young people
as terrorist recruits, with teenagers as young as 15- and 16-years-old
implicated in terrorist plots.

"As I speak, terrorists are methodically and intentionally targeting young
people and children in this country," he said. "They are radicalising,
indoctrinating and grooming young, vulnerable people to carry out acts of
terrorism."

Mr Evans said the terror plots were being directed from a widening range of
countries beyond the tribal areas of Pakistan where al-Qaida's "core leadership"
was based. There were signs that al-Qaida in Iraq was seeking to promote attacks
outside that country while terrorist training and planning against Britain was
being carried out in Somalia.

Mr Evans said it was a matter of "some disappointment" that MI5 was still having
to deal with "unreconstructed attempts" at spying by countries like China and
Russia, which still had the same number of undeclared intelligence officers in
Britain as it did during the Cold War.

Mr Evans said that MI5's focus was becoming increasingly regional, with eight
offices across Great Britain, and around 25% of the staff expected to be working
outside its London headquarters by 2011.

At the same time, a new Northern Ireland headquarters building will be opened
shortly, with the capacity to contribute to MI5's overall counter-terrorism
effort as well as security issues relating to the North.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday

Three "terrorists" killed as Turkish army responds to attack on outpost

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["COUNTER-TERRORISM... THREE TERRORISTS KILLED IN EASTERN TURKEY" - AA headline]

TUNCELI (A.A) -Security forces killed three terrorists during a clash in the
eastern province of Tunceli, governor's office said Wednesday.

The clash erupted when PKK terrorists staged an attack on an outpost at around
9:00 p.m. Tuesday near Mazgirt town.

One sergeant, who was identified as Bahtiyar Sismek, was martyred in the attack.

Security operations are underway in the region.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1019 gmt 7 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday

Inmate accused on prison attack on terrorist appears in court

SECTION: REGIONAL

LENGTH: 162 words


AN INMATE accused of carrying out a prison attack on an al Quaida terrorist
appeared in court today.

Gary Lee Moody, 22, from Sunderland, is alleged to have thrown boiling oil over
Dhiren Barot at Frankland Prison, Durham, on July 13.

As a result of the attack the 30-year-old convicted bomb plotter, from London,
spent several days undergoing treatment at Newcastle's RVI Hospital.

Barot is serving a life sentence, with a minimum term of 30-years, for planning
bomb attacks on various targets around the UK.

Moody, who has been transferred to HMP Whitemoor since the incident, is accused
of unlawfully and maliciously causing grievous bodily harm with intent and
assault causing actual bodily harm.

He appeared for a brief hearing at Newcastle Crown Court yesterday handcuffed
and flanked by two custody officers.

Judge David Hodson remanded Moody in custody and adjourned the case for a plea
hearing at the court on January 17, with a provisional trial date fixed for
February 4.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

Pakistan foreign minister condemns Afghanistan terror attack

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 7 November: Foreign Minister Khurshid Mehmood Kasuri has expressed
shock at terrorist bomb attack in Pul-i-Khumri, Afghanistan in which civilians
and six members of Afghan parliament lost their lives and many were injured.

In a condolence message to his Afghan counterpart Dr Rangin Dadfar Spanta, he
condemned the heartless and criminal terrorist attack.

Kasuri expressed hope that this terrorist attack will not dent the determination
of Afghan brothers and sisters, to build peace and stability in their country.

On his own behalf and the government of Pakistan, Kasuri conveyed profound
condolences to the government and people of Afghanistan as well as the bereaved
families who lost their loved ones in the attack. He prayed to Allah Almighty to
grant them courage and strength to bear this irreparable loss. Kasuri also
prayed for the early recovery of all those who were injured in the attack.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1508gmt
07 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Girl, 16, in sex attack terror after study class

BYLINE: DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 220 words


POLICE are hunting a sex attacker who stalked and attacked a 16-year-old girl on
her way home from school.

The teenager, who had been at a study class, was followed after she got off a
bus in the Foxbar area of Paisley.

The terrifying incident on Tuesday around 7.10pm, is being treated as an
indecent assault.

Police are appealing for witnesses before the man strikes again.

It is understood the sex attacker leapt on the girl as she reached a dark
alleyway which runs through Amochrie Glen.

She was gripped by the neck and subjected to an indecent assault.

The girl screamed for help and neighbours, including an off-duty policeman, ran
to her rescue, but the sex pest had fled by the time they arrived.

It is thought the teenager earlier realised she was being watched and tried to
get away, but she was over-powered by her attacker.

Police have issued a description of the suspect whoissaidtobeaged between 45 and
50.

He is around 5ft 7in tall, of heavy build and was wearing a long dark grey coat
and a floppy hat.

A spokeswoman appealed for witnesses and said: "Our investigations are
continuing after a 16-year-old girl was indecently assaulted.

"The attacker ran off towards Amochrie Road."

The incident has left residents shocked and parents have become increasingly
concerned about letting their children out on their own.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

Comment & Debate: A pointless attack on liberty that fuels the terror threat:
Ministers set on locking people up without charge should listen to the Muslim
mainstream, not the neocon fringe

BYLINE: Seumas Milne

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1093 words


The man has gone but his spirit lives on. Tony Blair's determination to turn the
war on terror into a permanent undeclared state of emergency in Britain, where
the "rules of the game have changed", ended in defeat two years ago when he
failed to raise the limit on detention of terrorist suspects without charge from
14 to 90 days. With a parliamentary compromise of 28 days in the bag - already
far longer than any other state in the western world - it might have been
expected that his successor would be content to leave well alone. Not a bit of
it. Gordon Brown is back for more, pressing the case this week for the right to
imprison people without charge for 56 days, or however close to that figure he
can manage.

What started a generation ago as a two-day limit on detention without charge, as
exists for American citizens in the US, was fixed at seven days in 2000;
ratcheted up to 14 in 2003; raised again to 28 in 2006; and is now heading for
two months of effective internment. The arbitrariness of this ratcheting-up is
obvious: in spite of the fact that we're talking about the country's most basic
civil liberties, it has clearly been a matter of think of a number and double
it.

Perhaps that's not so surprising, as nobody has been able to offer any evidence
whatever that police investigations have been undermined by having to release or
charge a suspect within four weeks. Indeed, despite much talk of the growing
complexity of terror cases, the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, has now conceded
that no circumstance had yet arisen where "it has been necessary up to this
point to go beyond 28 days". To all intents and purposes, the police and
government case is simply that it might be a useful precaution for the future -
or even a helpful "disruptive mechanism" when there is no real chance of a
charge. And now that the human rights organisation Liberty and the opposition
parties have offered an alternative of post-charge questioning (which carries
its own dangers), ministers have pocketed the concession and pressed on
regardless with their longer detention plans.

Most shamefully, it's widely acknowledged in Westminster that a key motiva tion
for this latest assault on long-established rights and freedoms is Brown's
determination to wrong-foot the Tories tactically and portray them as soft on
terror. Given the trauma endured by Muslim prisoners - because of course that's
who we're talking about, at least for now - locked up for weeks and then
released without charge, it might seem to be a bit of rather costly political
point-scoring. But then it follows the chaotic and counterproductive saga of
prisoners locked up indefinitely without charge in Belmarsh in the same spirit,
and the draconian control orders that the law lords last week called to be
marginally watered down: the regime of 18-hour curfews, bans on phone, internet
and personal contacts imposed on suspects without charge, or access to any
evidence against them.

This week's Queen's speech proposal to press ahead with yet another extension of
the power to lock people up without charge came hard on the heels of the lurid
warm-up act from the new MI5 director general, Jonathan Evans, whose
organisation will have doubled in size by 2011. In an inflammatory and highly
ideological speech, he warned that 15-year-olds were being "groomed" for terror
and that the number "we are seeing involved in terrorist-related activity" was
now 2,000 - followed by the bizarre rider that "there are as many again that we
don't yet know of".

Both figures should probably be taken with a pinch of salt, in the light of the
British security and intelligence agencies' erratic record with intelligence
over the years. Of course, there are underground jihadist elements prepared to
stage violent attacks in Britain, as has already been brutally demonstrated. But
the real surprise is how few attempts there have been since Blair joined George
Bush's war on terror: one serious atrocity, two bungled outrages, and a series
of unsuccessful plots of varying credibility does not even begin to match the
scale of the IRA campaign of the previous three decades. Naturally the security
services would like to claim credit for that, but given how easy it is to get
hold of guns in Britain or bomb soft civilian or political targets, it is
obvious that the numbers seriously committed to launching such attacks are fewer
than Evans's figures suggest.

What is clear is that the assault on basic liberties represented by repeated
extensions of pre-charge detention and control orders is out of all proportion
to the reality of what is actually taking place. It also makes a mockery of the
government's claim to be defending our freedom and way of life against al-Qaida,
when in fact it is trading away another bit of freedom for every bomb attack or
terror scare. The danger is not only that we lose valuable liberties, but that
we create more terrorists in the process, by further alienating Muslim youth
already radicalised by British and American aggression in the Muslim world. That
was the message of last week's highly effective Channel 4 drama Britz, denounced
by a government spokesman for ignoring the views of "moderate Muslims".

In fact, as polling shows, the kind of concerns expressed in Peter Kosminsky's
film - about the impact of anti-terror laws and western foreign policy - do
reflect mainstream British Muslim opinion, and it is the government which is
failing to face up to that. In an increasingly Islamophobic climate, the support
given by some ministers to those in the media and rightwing thinktanks arguing
against engagement with representative organisations like the Muslim Council of
Britain and non-violent Islamist groups is bound to backfire. Last week, for
example, the Blairite cabinet minister Hazel Blears championed the former
Islamist Ed Husain - who follows the neocon line on "Islamofascism" and
criticises MI5's boss for "pussyfooting around" - as a "new voice" who
"understands what needs to be done".

Picking people who are off the map of Muslim opinion to speak on British
Muslims' behalf is a dangerous game that will do nothing to increase public
safety. The biggest contribution this government could make to reduce the threat
of jihadist terror attacks in Britain would be to withdraw occupation troops
from Iraq and Afghanistan and end its support for dictatorships in the Muslim
world. In the meantime, it could make a start by letting Muslims speak for
themselves, instead of locking more of them up for longer without charge.

s.milne@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

Prisoner Charged With Attacking Terrorist Faces Court

BYLINE: Chloe Griffiths

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 242 words


A PRISONER appeared at court yesterday charged with attacking a jailed al-Qaeda
terrorist.

Gary Moody, an inmate at HMP Whitemoor, is accused of assaulting Dhiren Barot,
the leader of a British-based terrorist cell that plotted to murder thousands of
people with dirty bombs.

The 22-year-old defendant from Sunderland faces charges of causing grievous
bodily harm with intent and assault occasioning actual bodily harm following the
incident on July 6 in Durham's Frankland Prison.

He appeared at Newcastle Crown Court yesterday in handcuffs and flanked by two
security guards.

He is currently serving a public protection sentence, but the court heard
yesterday he has had his parole rejected for a further two years.

Barot, 35, of London, was once described by security sources as the second most
dangerous man in Britain, after Jordanian preacher Abu Qatada.

The Indian-born convert to Islam plotted to drive limousines packed with
explosives into the New York Stock Exchange, flood the London Underground and
considered using radioactive dirty bombs.

He was jailed for life in November last year and was moved, amid concerns for
his safety, from Belmarsh Prison in London to Frankland shortly before the
incident on Monday, July 16. Barot spent five days in the Royal Victoria
Infirmary, Newcastle, being treated for burns, surrounded by armed police.

Judge David Hodson, the Recorder of Newcastle, set a trial  date for the week
commencing February 4, 2008.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

SMITH ATTACK FOR TERROR SLUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 73 words


THE Home Secretary was slammed yesterday for suggesting opponents of new
anti-terror laws could allow an attack to happen.

Jacqui Smith said: "Imagine if we had to release someone and they went on to
commit a terrorist attack."

But Labour MP Bob Marshall-Andrews said: "We shouldn't give away liberties
unless we are absolutely certain it's necessary." And Tory David Davis accused
the Government of "wanting a permanent state of emergency".

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

Inmate accused on prison attack on terrorist appears in court

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: The Northern Echo


AN INMATE accused of carrying out a prison attack on an al Quaida terrorist
appeared in court today.

Gary Lee Moody, 22, from Sunderland, is alleged to have thrown boiling oil over
Dhiren Barot at Frankland Prison, Durham, on July 13.

As a result of the attack the 30-year-old convicted bomb plotter, from London,
spent several days undergoing treatment at Newcastle's RVI Hospital.

Barot is serving a life sentence, with a minimum term of 30-years, for planning
bomb attacks on various targets around the UK.

Moody, who has been transferred to HMP Whitemoor since the incident, is accused
of unlawfully and maliciously causing grievous bodily harm with intent and
assault causing actual bodily harm.

He appeared for a brief hearing at Newcastle Crown Court yesterday handcuffed
and flanked by two custody officers.

Judge David Hodson remanded Moody in custody and adjourned the case for a plea
hearing at the court on January 17, with a provisional trial date fixed for
February 4.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                      November 9, 2007 Friday 3:26 PM BST

TERRORIST ADMITS PLANNING JULY 21 ATTACK

LENGTH: 173 words


A man has admitted conspiring to cause explosions in connection with the failed
July 21 suicide bomb attacks in London.

Manfo Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to the single charge at
the Old Bailey.

Four other men were jailed for life in July at Woolwich Crown Court after being
convicted of conspiracy to murder.

Asiedu had been due to be retried at Kingston Crown Court next week on a single
charge of conspiracy to murder, which he denied.

But he entered a plea of guilty at a hearing before trial judge Mr Justice
Calvert-Smith.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, Ramzi Mohammed, Yassin Omar and Hussain Osman were told
they will all serve a minimum of 40 years in prison when they were convicted in
July.

Asiedu was supposed to be the fifth bomber but he ``lost his nerve at the last
moment'', Woolwich Crown Court heard during the trial.

Instead, he dumped his bomb in a wooded area in Little Wormwood Scrubs, where it
was found two days later.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said Asiedu will be sentenced at Kingston Crown Court
on November 19. end

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: PLO


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                      November 9, 2007 Friday 3:26 PM BST

TERRORIST ADMITS PLANNING JULY 21 ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 173 words


A man has admitted conspiring to cause explosions in connection with the failed
July 21 suicide bomb attacks in London.

Manfo Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to the single charge at
the Old Bailey.

Four other men were jailed for life in July at Woolwich Crown Court after being
convicted of conspiracy to murder.

Asiedu had been due to be retried at Kingston Crown Court next week on a single
charge of conspiracy to murder, which he denied.

But he entered a plea of guilty at a hearing before trial judge Mr Justice
Calvert-Smith.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, Ramzi Mohammed, Yassin Omar and Hussain Osman were told
they will all serve a minimum of 40 years in prison when they were convicted in
July.

Asiedu was supposed to be the fifth bomber but he ``lost his nerve at the last
moment'', Woolwich Crown Court heard during the trial.

Instead, he dumped his bomb in a wooded area in Little Wormwood Scrubs, where it
was found two days later.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said Asiedu will be sentenced at Kingston Crown Court
on November 19. end

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday

Pakistan president condemns terror attack at minister's residence

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 9 November: President Gen Pervez Musharraf Friday [9 November]
strongly condemned the suicide bombing at the residence of Minister for
Political Affairs Eng Amir Muqam in Peshawar saying the government could not be
intimidated by such tactics and would continue its fight against extremists and
terrorists.

The president said he was deeply saddened by the loss of life of the security
personnel deputed at Eng Muqam's residence.

He said the law enforcement personnel were at the forefront in this war and have
saved hundreds of lives, by sacrificing their own.

The president also announced a compensation of 500,000 rupees for each of the
dead, and 100,000 rupees for the injured. He directed the provincial authorities
to investigate the matter and bring the culprits to justice.

A suicide bomber blew himself up, when he was challenged by the security
personnel deputed at the entrance of Eng Muqam's residence at Hayatabad in
Peshawar.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1639gmt
09 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                          November 10, 2007, Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Foiled gas terror attack brings city standstill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 331 words


A suburb of Birmingham was brought to a standstill yesterday by what sources say
was a foiled terrorist attack, after a suspect package was found in a hole dug
onto a major gas pipe.

An unofficial source said the package had been discovered near to an uncovered
mains gas pipe in Small Heath, where a 30ft hole had mysteriously appeared.

The source went on to say that if the gas pipe had been destroyed then it would
have cut off the gas supply to the whole of Birmingham.

Officers were deployed to Small Heath, close to the A45 Coventry Road which
links the city centre with Birmingham International Airport. A stretch of Small
Heath Highway and the nearby Small Heath Industrial Estate were sealed off for
about 12 hours.

There were further unofficial reports that two ladders were found in the hole,
which was said to be 30ft deep and 10ft wide, next to a gas main near the Ackers
Trust dry ski slope site at about 10pm on Thursday.

Drivers were trapped in long queues while hundreds of staff were unable to reach
firms on the estate as a result of the cordons. Hundreds of employees lined the
roads as they were stopped from entering businesses.

The Small Heath Highway and the industrial estate finally reopened at about
10am. Police and forensic teams remained at the scene last night. Police said
they could not comment on operational details.

The police were called to the scene just before 5pm on Thursday after a
concerned member of the public phoned them.

But a spokeswoman said the incident was being treated as suspicious, but that it
was too early to say what had happened

National Grid, which owns and operates the gas distribution network in the area,
referred all calls about the incident to West Midlands Police.

Gary Smith, national officer of the GMB union, said: "GMB has been warning that
the regulator, in proposing cuts of 18 per cent in the costs of maintaining the
gas distribution system, is sending the wrong message regarding the security and
dangers of this industry."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday

Lad's terror in egg attack

LENGTH: 111  words


A TEENAGER who is allergic to eggs collapsed in the street and could have died
after being pelted with them from a passing car.

Alexander Main, 16, went into anaphylactic shock - an extreme and often
life-threatening reaction - after several eggs were hurled at him by yobs as he
walked through his home town.

Mum Marion said he was saved by the quick thinking of his friend Paul Gallagher,
who raised the alarm. Alexander was barely breathing by the time he reached
hospital and needed emergency oxygen and an adrenaline injection.

Marion, of Bathgate, near Edinburgh, said: "People should be aware of their
actions. If he had been on his own he might not be here now."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Trident shiplift 'vulnerable to terror attacks';
NUCLEAR WEAPONS: SUBMARINES AT RISK;
MoD study raises fears of 'ignition/detonation'

BYLINE: Rob Edwards Environment Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 600 words


THE danger that a 9/11-style attack on the Trident base on the Clyde could cause
a major nuclear disaster has been underestimated, according to internal Ministry
of Defence (MoD) documents passed to the Sunday Herald.

A risk assessment for the MoD says that the shiplift used to hoist nucleararmed
submarines out of the water at the Faslane naval dockyard would collapse if it
was hit by a plane. Another study by MoD experts says that an aircraft crash
could trigger "weapon ignition/detonation".

This would create "one helluva mess", according to nuclear experts, who argue
that the shiplift is a prime target for terrorists because it exposes a
submarine and its Trident nuclear-tipped missiles to attack. Even the Ministry
of Defence accepts that an aircraft crash would be "catastrophic".

Four Vanguard-class submarines, each carrying up to 48 Trident warheads and
weighing 16,000 tonnes, are regularly raised out of the water on the shiplift
for maintenance. The lift is also used to service other vessels and is occupied
for about 100 days a year.

Under freedom of information law, the MoD has released an accident assessment of
a submarine using the facility "with its Trident weapons system on board".

The report, written by consultants Atkins in 2003, concludes that the
consequences of a commercial aircraft crashing into the shiplift have previously
been played down. The probability that this would cause the shiplift platform to
collapse "should tend towards 1", it says, making it a virtual certainty.

The report recommends that the risks should be reassessed, including
calculations of how far radioactive contamination could spread in the aftermath
of an attack.

The Atkins report highlights other risks that have been underestimated.

"No mention of spontaneous ignition of propellant was made", it says, despite
this being "a credible hazard".

The propellent is a form of solid rocket fuel known as nitrate ester, which is
classed as an explosive. Each submarine carrying Trident missiles is thought to
carry propellent equivalent to 1000 tonnes of TNT.

The report also suggests that the chances of a missile accidentally exploding -
known as a "cook-off" - may need to be re-evaluated. Another report, for the US
House Armed Services Committee in 1990, expressed concern that a "submarine
loading accident" could lead to "plutonium dispersal or possibly a nuclear
yield".

According to an independent nuclear consultant, John Large, the risk was that a
small nuclear explosion - a fizzle - would blast plutonium from the warheads
over a huge area.

His concerns were echoed by the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, which
unearthed the risk assessments.

"The MoD cannot conceal the huge shiplift at Faslane nor can it keep secret the
fact that this facility is used by Trident submarines, " said the group's
co-ordinator, John Ainslie.

"So long as this is the case there is a real danger that a terrorist could try a
September 11th style attack with catastrophic consequences." The MoD never
comments in detail on security threats, but Faslane's spokesman Neil Smith said:
"Safety is always paramount and subject to rigorous checks".

NEED TO KNOW

THE FACTS The risks of terrorists crashing a aircraft into a submarine facility
at the Faslane nuclear base on the Clyde have been underestimated, according to
Ministry of Defence reports.

BACKGROUND The Sunday Herald reported a month ago that the MoD was considering
building a new dry dock at Faslane in place of the shiplift after 2011.

NEED TO KNOW MORE?

www.mod.uk Ministry of Defence.

www.banthebomb.org Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday

Troops warned off social websites for fear of terror attack

BYLINE: SEAN RAYMENT Security Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 778 words


BRITISH TROOPS have been warned not to post personal details on internet
websites amid fears that they will be targeted by British-based al-Qaeda
terrorists.

The warning, which states that al-Qaeda cells are increasingly using the
internet to track down potential targets, appeared in a "restricted'' military
security document distributed to Army units across Britain.

The document reveals that troops using the Facebook, MySpace and Friends
Reunited sites may potentially be most at risk. It is understood to be the first
time that either the security service, MI5, or the military has warned troops of
the dangers of posting personal information and pictures on websites.

Under the heading "personal security'', the document says troops are warned not
to reveal "your service connections on chatroom and dating sites''. It adds: "Be
particularly careful if you are on Facebook, MySpace or Friends Reunited.''

Last week, Jonathan Evans, the new head of MI5, said that Muslim children as
young as 15 were being targeted by al-Qaeda. Meanwhile, it can be revealed that
the head of a western counter-terrorist organisation has stated that Britain is
now a main recruiting area for al-Qaeda.

The official, who has spent his entire career hunting terrorists and gathering
intelligence, revealed in London that despite setbacks over the past couple of
years in Iraq and Afghanistan, al-Qaeda was now a "resurgent'' force.

He added that many young British Muslims were now "self-radicalising'' in their
bedrooms after being inspired by extremist websites. The official described this
latest type of terrorist as the most difficult one for security services to
counter.

He said these were young people driven by "emotional rather than ideological''
inspiration. They did not have to go to training camps or meet al-Qaeda
organisers to begin plotting.

Thousands of servicemen and women have posted personal details on various
websites, including news of their careers and pictures of themselves in uniform.

Access to Facebook is restricted to members, but the only thing that is required
to register is an email. With several false accounts, it is possible to access
the personal pages of many Services personnel listed on regimental forums on the
site.

The Sunday Telegraph found at least 888 names on the Royal Marines network on
Facebook, and 72 members on the network for The Royal Anglian Regiment. Many of
the soldiers listed on the site revealed their full names, dates of birth, home
towns, names of family members, girlfriends or wives, the locations where they
had served and pictures posing with colleagues and weapons.

The threat facing troops in Britain became apparent earlier this year when the
security services uncovered an alleged plot to kidnap a British Muslim soldier
recently returned from service abroad and to behead him on the internet.

The security document, dated October 17 this year, also restated the threat to
the UK posed by British members of al-Qaeda. The document states: "We can expect
AQ

[al-Qaeda] to be presenting a threat to the western world for several years to
come. The UK remains a target for AQ activity and, as indicated in recent
arrests and trials, home-grown Islamist extremists continue to present a threat
in the UK.

"Attacking soft targets causing maximum casualties has been their MO [modus
operandi] so far, with transport infrastructure at most risk.''

Referring to the failed car bombing of Glasgow airport in the summer, the
document adds: "Most recent incidents of vehicle-borne improvised explosive
devices are believed to have been the work of educated men, sympathetic to AQ
policies, as opposed to the normal disaffected dissidents.

"AQ will continue to recruit extremists to conduct suicide attacks both here and
abroad, as well as recruiting sympathisers prepared to assist by providing
accommodation, transport and funding.''

Jonathan Evans revealed that Muslim teenagers were being recruited to wage a
"campaign of terror'' in Britain. The spy chief said Islamists were
"radicalising, indoctrinating and grooming young and vulnerable people to carry
out acts of terrorism''.

A shop assistant who worked at Heathrow airport last week became the first woman
to be convicted under the Terrorism Act. Samina Malik, 22, had extremist
material stored on her home computer.

In a separate development, Abdul Bari, the head of the Muslim Council of Great

Britain, told The Daily

Telegraph that Britain risked becoming like Nazi Germany if it continued to
alienate large numbers of the Muslim community.

A Home Office spokesman said anti-terror laws "are aimed at terrorists, whatever
background or section of society they may come from''.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            November 12, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Police want  1.7m for terror attack;
Strathclyde force seeks funding to pay for airport overtime bills

BYLINE: ALAN MacDERMID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


STRATHCLYDE Police has applied to the Scottish Government for funds to meet the
1.7m overtime bill following the Glasgow Airport terror attack, it emerged last
night.

The force is seeking recompense for the money on overtime payments from June 30
to the beginning of September.

On the day of the attack, hundreds of detectives worked extra hours, along with
antiterrorism officers, while further security was provided at the hospital
where one of the suspects was treated. Extra officers were also deployed to
guard police stations, airports and other possible targets.

A spokeswoman for Strathclyde Police said: "The Joint Police Board has applied
to the Scottish Government seeking consideration for funds which compensate for
the additional cost of policing at the recent Glasgow Airport incident.

"Due to the particular nature of the incident, and given that it was linked to a
UK-wide incident we await the decision."

Police linked the Jeep attack in Glasgow to the discovery of two car bombs in
the capital the previous day. One was left outside a popular nightclub and the
other had been towed to a pound after being ticketed for parking violations.

In the aftermath Britain was placed on a "critical" state of terror alert . . .
the highest possible . . . meaning an attack was believed to be imminent,
leading to the deployment of huge numbers of police.

Two doctors charged in connection with the Glasgow attack and the failed
doublebombing attempt in London a few days earlier are expected to stand trial
late next year, probably about September.

Dr Bilal Abdullah, 28, a locum endocrinologist at the Royal Alexandra Hospital
in Paisley, and Dr Mohammed Asha, 27, an Iranian employed at a hospital in
Stoke-on-Trent, were accused of conspiracy to cause explosions likely to
endanger life.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, of Ravillies Road, Liverpool, who worked at Halton Hospital
in Runcorn, Cheshire, was charged with possessing information that could have
prevented an act of terrorism.

Dr Ahmed's brother, Kafeel Ahmed, 27, died of burns received in the Glasgow
attack.

Strathclyde Police has already been rebuffed by the Scottish Government after
seeking  5.5m towards the cost of the Faslane 365 demonstration.

The year of anti-nuclear protests at the Clyde naval base incurred major
policing costs. Strathclyde Police Board wrote to the government last month
asking for help to foot the bill after the issue was raised by chief constable
SirWillie Rae.

Bridget Campbell, director of the police section of the Justice Department,
replied: "The need to police Faslane will have been built into the force's
budgets. It does not seem to me, therefore, there is a need to provide specific
grant support in this instance."

Board chairman Paul Rooney said he would take up the matter with Kenny
MacAskill, the Justice Secretary.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Pharma Marketletter

                            November 12, 2007 Monday

Nigeria's drug regulators face terror attacks

LENGTH: 232 words


Local offices of Nigeria's National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and
Control have been vandalized or subjected to arson attacks and its Director
General, Dora Akunyili, has survived an assassination attempt from
pharmaceutical counterfeiters, during her six years in charge. Since a 2003
kidnap attempt on one of Mrs Akunyili's sons, much of her family has emigrated
to the USA.

The NAFDAC's Director General since 2001, Mrs Akunyili is credited by many with
reducing the fake drug problem in Nigeria. The UK's Guardian newspaper quoted a
colleague at the World Health Organization as saying: "if the African continent
were full of Doras, it would be easy to get rid of counterfeits." According to
the Nigerian agency's figures, 41% of all drugs on the market in 2001 were
estimated to be counterfeit copies. Last year, the rate was believed to have
plunged to 16.7%, according to a survey of 600 drug samples taken across the
country (Marketletter June 18).

The enforcement efforts of the NAFDAC have included 110 destruction exercises
totaling fake drugs valued at $150.0 million and 45 convictions for trafficking
since 2001.

As evidence of the improved drug regulatory regime, Mrs Akunyili notes that
"local [pharmaceutical] industries have grown from 70 in 2001 to 150." In
addition, a ban on Nigerian medicines has been lifted by several other countries
in the west African region.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                 Copyright 2007 Marketletter Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

Norway-based "terrorist" backs attacks on Australians in Iraq

LENGTH: 351 words


Text of report by Radio Australia, international service of the
government-funded ABC, on 13 November

The Australian government says it is not aware of any links between an alleged
terrorist detained in Norway and the death of an Australian in Iraq. The ABCs
"Foreign Correspondent" programme reveals alleged terrorist Mullah Krekar may be
connected to the car bombing that killed ABC cameraman Paul Moran in Iraq in
2003.

Krekar is the founder of the extremist group Ansar al-Islam and is urging his
followers to attack Australian troops in Iraq. Foreign Minister Alexander Downer
says Krekar will not influence Australia's presence in the country.

[Downer] [He is] somebody who is wanted, who is a serious terrorist, and we
would expect him to make extremist, threatening and bloodcurdling comments, as
he has done. But obviously we are not going to have our foreign policy dictated
to by this kind of person.

(ABC Radio National's "AM" programme, carried by Radio Australia (2210 gmt 12
November), carried extracts from "Foreign Correspondent":

[Correspondent Mark Corcoran] So you were training suicide bombers? You were
training?

[Mullah Krekar] Yes.

[Corcoran] And you regard suicide bombing as a legitimate tactic?

[Mullah Krekar] Oh, everything. Everything which is we can do it.

[Mullah Krekar] If you say to me, Mullah Krekar, I have a Muslim friend, he want
to ask you about jihad, can he go to jihad in Iraq against Australian
occupation? I say, yes, of course he can. In this area, it is allowed for me in
Islam to kill him, to kill his translator, to kill his, the people which give
him food, give him water, give him medicine. All of them is in the line of the
war.

"Mullah Krekar denies Paul Moran was deliberately targeted, or that he had any
involvement in the attack, but makes no apologies for it," the report added.

[Mullah Krekar] I say, I say to the, all of the Western womans, don't send your
sons to kill us.

[Corcoran] Well, he wasn't killing anybody. He was a cameraman.

[Mullah Krekar] Yes, he was, he was also with our enemy.)

Source: Radio Australia, Melbourne, in English 0700 gmt 13 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

Czech paper reports threat of terrorist attacks if US radar base built

LENGTH: 269 words


Excerpt from report in English by Czech news agency CTK

Prague, 13 November: The alleged Czech branch of the Red Army Faction (RAF)
terrorist group has threatened explosions, murders and violence if a US radar
installation were stationed in the Czech Republic, the daily Lidove noviny
writes today.

"Please, take these words seriously, it is not a joke, it would probably be late
after the first dead appeared," the daily quotes the group as saying on the
Internet.

The attacks are allegedly to come at the moment the first American soldier steps
on Czech soil.

"[Our goal is] to ruthlessly eliminate everything American, especially what
concerns our population and culture, all military means, and nationalize the
entire capital gained through the blood spilt around the world, as well as to
use all other methods for the benefit of the Slavonic nation," the daily writes,
quoting the alleged group's statutes signed by Pavel J. Hejatko.

Lidove noviny says Hejatko is known in the police circles as an anti-American
activist who sent letters to senators and deputies in the past.

"Then it was not a crime, according to experts," a detective from the
organized-crime squad who investigated Hejatko's activities said.

Hejatko has declined to comment on the RAF activities, Lidove noviny says.

The paper writes that the Czech counter-intelligence service BIS is also dealing
with the group activities.

"The service is aware of the RAF faction and it focuses on it," BIS spokesman
Jan Subert said without elaborating.

[Passage omitted: background on German RAF]

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 0647 gmt 13 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

Iraqi president in Egypt comments on PKK "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 12 November: Iraqi President Jalal Talabani said on Monday [12 November]
that any military action against the Turkish government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan
by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) would be considered "hostility" against
the Iraqi people, including the Kurdish minority.

In a joint press conference with Arab League Secretary-General Amr Musa,
Talabani vowed to leave no stone unturned to stop the PKK terrorist attacks,
adding that terrorism poses a threat to both Iraq and Turkey.

Speaking on ties binding Iraqi Kurds and the PKK, Talabani said no Kurds in Iraq
support the outlawed organization, noting that Iraq's Kurdish authorities are
helping the Turkish forces monitor PKK activities in northern Iraq.

The Iraqi president called on the PKK fighters to lay down arms and resort to
peace.

He said the Iraqi constitution prohibits the existence of any non-Iraqi militias
on Iraqi soil, but the PKK fighters are hiding in remote mountainous areas, away
from Baghdad's control.

Questioned on the possibility of using the Iraqi army against the PKK, Talabani
said the situation in Iraq requires the army to protect the capital, Baghdad,
and other major cities, rather than deploying forces to track down the PKK in
the remote border regions.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2156 gmt 12 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 14, 2007, Wednesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

PM in terrorist attack warning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 209 words


PRIME Minister Gordon Brown warned the UK could be hit by terror attacks
"anywhere and from any place" today, as he prepared to unveil the results of two
major security reviews. Home Office minister Lord West has completed an inquiry
into security at crowded locations across Britain, such as sports stadia and
shopping centres as well as transport networks.

His report was expected to highlight areas where more must be done to protect
the public from possible carnage - but also warn that measures should not
disrupt everyday life.

Architects are also expected to be told to integrate counter-terrorism measures
in major new buildings, but in a way which makes physical measures such as
barriers as unobtrusive as possible.

In July, Mr Brown said a total of 900 shopping centres, sports stadia and other
areas where large crowds gather had been assessed by counter-terrorism advisers.

The second study, led by Cabinet Secretary Sir Gus O'Donnell examined whether
police and other staff could be included in the new border force, which is
designed to strengthen security at ports and airports.

Mr Brown has announced a new uniformed border force would bring together the
Home Office's Border and Immigration Agency, Customs and the UK Visas overseas
operation.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REVIEW... Gordon Brown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

Axe attack terror ordeal appeal

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS

LENGTH: 212 words


A man was left with horrific injuries after being attacked with an axe in his
own home.

The gang of four men forced their way into a flat on John Kennedy Road,
Hattersley, and threatened the homeowner and another woman.

After a struggle, one of the offenders grabbed an axe from the victim's bedroom
and hit him several times in the head and body.

The terrifying attack took place at about 2.30am on Sunday, November 4.

The homeowner, aged 38, spent several days in hospital recovering from his
injuries.

The main offender is described as being mixed race, in his early 20s and of slim
build. During the incident one of the gang is thought to have called him Leon.
The second offender is described as white, of slim build and the other two in
the gang are thought to be white, about 15-years-old, of slim build, and wearing
baseball caps.

DS Brian Hulse, of Ashton CID, said: "The victim received horrific injuries as a
result of this senseless attack and spent a lot of time in hospital recovering.
Both he and his friend were left extremely traumatised by this vicious attack.

"I would appeal to anyone with information to contact officers as soon as
possible."

Anyone with information is asked to call Ashton CID on 0161 856 9255 or
Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    November 14, 2007 Wednesday 07:11 AM GMT

Reformed terrorist killed in bomb attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


A congressman killed in a bomb blast outside the Philippine legislature was a
former member of an al-Qaida-linked militant group who switched sides to support
a US-backed offensive against them, police said today.

Wahab Akbar died of wounds shortly after the blast yesterday, along with an MP's
driver and a legislative staffer. Seven other people, including two members of
Congress, were injured but expected to recover.

Police said Akbar appeared to be the target of the remotely-detonated explosion,
which shattered one of the building's entrances after a session had ended and
MPs and their staff prepared to leave.

Akbar, a former Muslim separatist rebel who became governor of southern Basilan
province, joined the extremist Abu Sayyaf group in the 1990s when it had just
embarked on a campaign to establish an Islamic caliphate in the southern
Philippines, said metropolitan Manila police chief Geary Barias.

But as the group gained notoriety for attacks on Christians, ransom kidnappings
and beheadings of hostages, Akbar disassociated himself from the group and
joined US-backed military operations against the militants on Basilan, Barias
said.

But top officials said the blast was not necessarily a revenge attack by Abu
Sayyaf.

Interior secretary Ronaldo Puno said the investigation was "pointing away from a
terrorist attack and more of a directed assault on a certain individual".

"There were threats on the life of Akbar," Puno said. "The indications are that
that was the case both in terms of location of the bomb and the manner it was
set off."

While he turned on the Muslim rebels, Akbar also had many political foes,
including those who ran against one of his three wives who succeeded him as
Basilan governor.

His second wife won as mayor of the provincial capital of Isabela, while the
third lost in the race for mayor of another town.

Political rivalries in the southern Philippines are often accompanied by
bloodshed, and assassinations of politicians are common.

"Political angle, personal angle, it's too early to discount other
possibilities," Barias said.

Akbar, 47, began as a member of the Moro National Liberation Front, a Muslim
rebel group that dropped its secessionist goal and signed a peace accord with
the government in September 1996.

In 2002, as governor of Basilan, he welcomed US troops who arrived on the island
to train Filipino soldiers battling the Abu Sayyaf.

Over the years, the island was gradually transformed from a militant hotbed into
a showcase of counterterrorism success and humanitarian development.

The key Abu Sayyaf leaders were killed last year in a clash with Philippine
marines on neighbouring Jolo island.

But some of the group's fighters regrouped and returned to Basilan, where they
have joined with other guerrillas to stage sporadic attacks.

At the bombing site, investigators suspected the house bomb might have been
hidden on one of two parked motorcycles and then remotely detonated as Akbar
approached his car, mortally wounding him and ripping the motorcycles apart,
Barias said.

Investigators recovered parts of a mobile phone which may have been used to
trigger the blast, he said.

President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo urged people not to jump to conclusions about
the attack. "We're making a call against rumours, accusations that create
confusion, fear and conflict," she said.

The blast occurred amid heightened political tensions in the country as Arroyo
faces a third impeachment attempt in as many years.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

JAN IS A JUNGLE TERROR;
EXCLUSIVE ATTACK OF ALPHA GIRLS

BYLINE: BY BETH NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 118 words


SHE claims to be the world's first supermodel. But these pictures prove
loudmouthed Janice Dickinson can look far more scary than any of those jungle
creepy crawlies.

Janice, 52, who has bedded JFK junior, Mick Jagger, Frank Zappa, Warren Beatty,
Jack Nicholson and Liam Neeson and fought a bitter paternity case with Sylvester
Stallone in the 90s, has already been bugging the life out of her fellow I'm A
Celebrity contestants. But viewers have been glued to her bolshy rows with PR
guru Lynne Franks and she's already warned the not-so-happy campers not to make
an enemy of her. Over the years, she has found time for three marriages, two
children, lesbian affairs, copious drugs and extensive plastic surgery.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STARTING POUT: Janice in 1978 on a photoshoot in New York during her
early days as model; STANDING HIGH ABOVE SLY: Janice towers over lover Sylvester
Stallone in this 1994 picture; INFLATED: At the Christian Dior show in Paris in
1995 smuggling what appear to be a pair of beach balls; GRIN AND BARE IT: Janice
looks distinctly scary as she smiles in this topless snap taken in Los Angeles;
LOUDMOUTH: She belts out a song while on stage in 1982; HONEYMOON: Janice and
Alan Gerston in West Indies. The marriage lasted little more than a year; PROUD
MUM: Cuddling baby Savannah Rodin after birth in LA; CELEBOTTY: Mooning on West
Indies honeymoon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

Axe attack terror ordeal appeal

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A man was left with horrific injuries after being attacked with an axe in his
own home.

The gang of four men forced their way into a flat on John Kennedy Road,
Hattersley, and threatened the homeowner and another woman.

After a struggle, one of the offenders grabbed an axe from the victim's bedroom
and hit him several times in the head and body.

The terrifying attack took place at about 2.30am on Sunday, November 4.

The homeowner, aged 38, spent several days in hospital recovering from his
injuries.

The main offender is described as being mixed race, in his early 20s and of slim
build. During the incident one of the gang is thought to have called him Leon.
The second offender is described as white, of slim build and the other two in
the gang are thought to be white, about 15-years-old, of slim build, and wearing
baseball caps.

DS Brian Hulse, of Ashton CID, said: "The victim received horrific injuries as a
result of this senseless attack and spent a lot of time in hospital recovering.
Both he and his friend were left extremely traumatised by this vicious attack.

"I would appeal to anyone with information to contact officers as soon as
possible."

Anyone with information is asked to call Ashton CID on 0161 856 9255 or
Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday

MP attacks moves for anti-terror measures

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 181 words


Tough new anti-terror moves, including  the right to detain suspects for up to
58 days without charge, came under fire today.

The move is among plans announced by Prime Minister Gordon Brown.

He also said that security would be tightened at sensitive sites, with
airport-style measures at major railway stations.

Cinemas and shopping centres are to get guidance on anti-terror measures.

Head teachers are to get advice about preventing radical groups recruiting
pupils in schools.

Meantime, rules limiting air passengers' hand baggage were expected to be
relaxed.

Labour backbencher David Winnick criticised the plans, saying he was not
prepared to back 58 days of detention without charge.

The new move would require oversight by both a judge and Parliament.

The Tories, Liberal Democrats and some Labour MPs are opposed to any extension
beyond the 28-day compromise agreed after Tony Blair was defeated in the Commons
over proposals for a 90-day limit.

Mr Winnick said: "I'm not persuaded. The Government   know it will be very
difficult to get Parliament to agree to an extension beyond 28 days."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday

Chef relives terror attack

BYLINE: David Watkinson

SECTION: ACCRINGTON

LENGTH: 298 words


A CHEF said he feared for his life after being subjected to a "vicious
unprovoked assault" as he walked home from work.

Michael Lucas suffers from a painful, rare condition and said that the agony
after a blow to the side of his face was so severe that he felt it could have
killed him.

The 43-year-old was dragged to the floor before being punched and kicked by two
men in Spring Hill Road, Accrington, at 10.40pm on Monday.

Mr Lucas, a married father-of-three, was walking alone after leaving his job at
the Dunkenhalgh Hotel, Clayton-le-Moors.

He suffers from a severe form of trigeminal neuralgia, which causes sudden,
intense pain in his face.

The banquet chef said: "It was an absolutely terrifying experience and I have
been very lucky not to have been more seriously hurt.

"I have a very serious condition and have just increased my medication.

"When I was first hit I feared for the worst."

Police said that Mr Lucas was attacked from behind after passing two men who
were arguing. As he got close to them he was suddenly attacked.

He added: "I was hit with a blunt object in the back of the head and then as I
fell I was punched and kicked. I think I must have blacked out because the next
thing I knew the men had run off."

Mr Lucas then stumbled to his nearby home and his family called an ambulance.

Det Con Mark Cruise said: "We are treating it as an unprovoked attack and are
hoping to speak to any witnesses.

"A woman was driving alone in the road in a small red car at the time and this
witness may hold vital information about the attack."

Police said they were not ruling out the fact that the attack might have been an
attempted robbery.

Anyone with information is urged to contact police on 01254 353742 quoting log
number 321EQ/121107 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                            November 16, 2007 Friday

Preparing For A Terror Attack

BYLINE: Helen Rae

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 437 words


Since September 11 2001 Britain has been warned of the inevitability of
terrorist attacks. As a result North East organisations have been put through a
series of mock explosions to prepare them if the situation was to arise. HELEN
RAE reports.

JUST imagine a bomb blast at St James's Park, or a suicide bomber in the
MetroCentre.

These are the kind of frightening situations which business managers in Tyneside
have to prepare for.

Terrorism is something which all regions, including the North East, have to be
acutely aware of.

More than 80 bosses attended project ARGUS, at Newcastle Civic Centre yesterday.

The scheme is a National Counter Terrorism Security Office  initiative, used to
explore ways to teach employees how to prevent, handle and recover from a
terrorist attack.

Sound recordings were used to simulate a series of explosions in quick
succession and those attending were asked to consider what their response would
be in the situation.

The project is supported by the Association of Chief Police Officers and
Newcastle City Council.

Stephen Savage, head of public health and environmental protection at the
council said:  "It is crucial events such as this are done for businesses in the
region. The threat of a terrorist attack is real but no more so than any other
part of the country. We are not trying to scaremonger people but make them aware
of what they need to look out for and what precautions they should take. There
is not an enhanced security threat in Newcastle but people need to be prepared
as the instance of a terrorist attack is, unfortunately, something that needs to
be addressed."

The event focused on the night time economy. Businesses included restaurants
pubs, nightclubs, casinos, hotels, theatres, museums and sports venues.

It is the second time ARGUS has been carried out in the region to outline plans
to safeguard Tyneside staff and customers.

Last month, the project concentrated on shopping malls, such as Eldon Square,
the MetroCentre and The Gate in Newcastle, and transport operators.

"It was a huge success last time and that is why we decided to do it again,"
said Mr Savage. "It is an extremely valuable exercise as it brings businesses
and organisations together to discuss how we, as a community, would respond to a
terrorist attack."

DCI Wes Gibson, from Northumbria Police, said: "While there is nothing to
suggest the North East is a particular target, this is the latest exercise in a
rolling programme of such events taking place throughout the country.  They are
aimed at providing information to shopkeepers and retail managers about what to
do in the event of an attack."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                            November 16, 2007 Friday

Do You Think Newcastle Is Equipped To Handle A Terrorist Attack?

BYLINE: Liz Walker

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 38-39

LENGTH: 158 words


Laura Woolgar, 38, civil servant, Tynemouth: The station is very open and there
aren't many bins or places to hide bombs. The shopping areas are quite open too.

Owen Hannaby, 23, restaurant employee, Newcastle's West End: I don't think we're
equipped to handle an attack at all. There aren't enough police in the city
centre.

Liz Moody, 54, trainee manager, Cramlington: After what happened at Glasgow
Airport you'd think there would be more bollards to stop people driving into
things.

Joan Tyson, 54, housewife, Walker: I don't think we are equipped enough for a
terrorist attack. You never really see any police or security around.

Simon Graham, 22, shop assistant, Newcastle city centre: I think we are equipped
enough for a terrorist attack. I think everyone knows the most dangerous places.

Matthew Sinnett, 32, civil engineer, Heaton: It is as well equipped as it can be
without spending inordinate amounts of money.  There's only so much you can do.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                            November 19, 2007 Monday

'Scotland should be ready for more terror attacks'

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 261 words


Scotland's top police officer said today he expected there could be further
terrorist attacks on Scotland in the coming years.

The newly-appointed Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, Stephen House, said
he fully recognised the force's need to be "prepared and respond speedily to any
future terrorist threat".

On his first day in charge of Scotland's biggest force Mr House said: "I would
be surprised in the next few years if there are not further terrorist incidents
in Scotland."

Glasgow-born Mr House, 49,  replaces Sir Willie Rae, who retired after six years
in charge.

Mr House, pictured,  was previously Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan
Police.

Over the next five years in the Strathclyde role he said one of his many
priorities would be to tackle the threat of terrorism.

He added: "There is no doubt terrorism still remains a threat to us all.

"As a force, Strathclyde Police will continue to be vigilant on behalf of the
communities.

"But we must ask that the communities must remain vigilant themselves and work
with us to drive out those who would divide us."

He also spoke of the incident at Glasgow Airport this summer, saying: "I think
events on and in the  aftermath of June 30 this year showed how professionally
and sensitively this force dealt with such a large-scale incident, and yet was
able to continue with what we would regard as the day-to-day business of
policing."

Mr House takes charge of 7,500 officers and 3,000 civilian staff and handles a
budget of more than £500 million. Other priorities include tackling violence,
drugs and gangs.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            November 19, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

'There will be another terrorist attack in Scotland';
Warning from new police chief

BYLINE: STEWART PATERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words


ANOTHER terrorist attack in Scotland is almost inevitable, the country's most
senior police officer has warned as he takes up his new post.

Steve House, Strathclyde Police's new chief constable, warned that his force
will have to be constantly prepared to react to a similar attack to the one in
which a car exploded in flames as it was rammed into Glasgow Airport in June
this year.

Mr House said he watched that day's events unfold from London and was impressed
by the reaction of the police and emergency services.

He said Scotland must be ready to deal with the terror threat again and
communities as well as the police will have a key role in preventing further
acts.

He said: "I will be expecting us to be ready for further attacks. It is almost
certain there will be further terrorist incidents.

"The threat changes and I need to ensure we are ready. I would be surprised in
the next few years if there are not further terrorist attacks in Scotland."

Mr House begins today as Strathclyde Police chief constable, taking over from
SirWillie Rae who has retired.

His experience as assistant commissioner of theMetropolitan Police and his
vision of policing with a greater emphasis on frontline resources secured him
the role heading Scotland's largest police force. Mr House has experience of
theMetropolitan Police anti-terror operations and the controversy that
surrounded the force following the shooting of an innocent man on a Tube train.

He headed Operation Kratos, an internal investigation into the shooting by
police of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes in a London Underground station.

While recognising the crime patterns of violence and antisocial behaviour which
are specific to Strathclyde, he said the focus on the terror threat would not be
diminished.

He added: "Watching the Glasgow Airport attack from a distance I can say how
impressed I and my colleagues in the Met were with how that was dealt with."

On June 30 a Jeep Cherokee was driven into the front of the terminal building at
Glasgow Airport, where it burst into flames. Kafeel Ahmed, 27, died in hospital
from burns sustained in the failed terrorist attack.

Three doctors have been charged in connection with the incident.

Bilal Abdullah, 28, and Mohammed Asha, 27, have been charged with conspiracy to
cause explosions likely to endanger life and Sabeel Ahmed, 26, has been charged
with possessing information that could have prevented an act of terrorism.

Mr House said he was aware of the need for good relations between police and
minority communities and urged everyone to stay alert to the terror threat.

He added: "Coming out of that incident, I am aware of the good foundations that
exist between Strathclyde Police and our black and ethnic minority communities.
I recognise the commitment of many community leaders and their support for the
wider community and policing.

"Terrorism remains a threat to us all. As a force we will continue to be
vigilant on behalf of communities. I ask that communities continue to remain
vigilant on behalf of one another against those who would divide us.

"I would like to take this opportunity to reassure you that I fully recognise
our need to be prepared to respond speedily and proportionately to any such
threat."

News focus Page 11

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STEVE HOUSE: Strathclyde Police's new chief constable.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                      November 19, 2007 Monday 2:48 AM BST

POLICE CHIEF WARNS OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Victoria Mitchell, Scottish Press Association

LENGTH: 584 words


Scotland's top police officer said today he expected there could be further
terrorist attacks on Scotland in the coming years.

The newly-appointed Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, Stephen House, said
he fully recognised the force's need to be ``prepared and respond speedily to
any future terrorist threat''.

On his first day in charge of Scotland's biggest force Mr House said: ``I would
be surprised in the next few years if there is not further terrorist incidents
in Scotland.''

Glasgow-born Mr House replaces Sir Willie Rae, who retired after six years in
charge.

Mr House was Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and led part of
the internal review into the shooting of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes in
2005.

Over the next five years in the Strathclyde role he said one of his many
priorities would be to tackle the threat of terrorism.

He added: ``There is no doubt terrorism still remains a threat to us all.

``As a force, Strathclyde Police will continue to be vigilant on behalf of the
communities.

``But we must ask that the communities must remain vigilant themselves and work
with us to drive out those who would divide us.''

He said: ``I will be looking to make sure we are ready to respond effectively to
terrorist attack.

``I need to make sure Strathclyde Police is ready for the threat whatever guise
it takes.''

He also spoke of the incident at Glasgow Airport this summer, saying: ``I think
events on and in the immediate aftermath of June 30 this year showed how
professionally and sensitively this force dealt with such a large-scale
incident, and yet was able to continue with what we would regard as the
day-to-day business of policing.

``That response is a testament to the dedication and commitment of the officers
and police staff in Strathclyde.''

In his new role Mr House takes charge of 7,500 officers and 3,000 civilian staff
and handles a budget of more than £500 million.

Other priorities include tackling violence, drugs and gangs in the west of
Scotland.

On violence he said: ``I would like to voice my strong support for the work of
the Violence Reduction Unit.

``I am aware that no single agency can solve these complex social and economic
problems.

``I am also aware that the force has a reputation for being fully committed to
playing its part in identifying joint solutions to long-standing and
cross-cutting issues.

``Crucially, joint solutions must work to deliver a sustainable reduction in the
levels of violent crime in our society.

``Through enforcement, attitudinal change and prevention measures, we must all
work together to create a society where violence is considered an aberration,
where children, young people and adults no longer face the challenges that
interpersonal violence presents today.''

He continued: ``Strathclyde Police will work to ensure that in the here and now
we protect vulnerable people by protecting repeat victims; we target repeat
offenders and we work with partners to target hotspot locations.

``We will also be targeting the gangs which blight local communities.''

Mr House, 49, moved from Glasgow to London with his family when he was 12 but
returned to Scotland to attend Aberdeen University.

He joined Sussex Police in 1981 and rose through the ranks before being
appointed assistant chief constable of Staffordshire in 1998.

He then moved to the Met in 2001 as a Deputy Assistant Commissioner and was
promoted to Assistant Commissioner in 2005. In the same year he was awarded the
Queen's Police Medal for distinguished service.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 19, 2007 Monday 2:46 AM BST

FIFTH BOMBER FACES SENTENCE FOR FAILED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: PA Reporters

LENGTH: 316 words


The fifth July 21 bomber will be sentenced today for his role in the plot to
attack London's transport network.

Manfo Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty earlier this month to
conspiracy to cause explosions in connection with the failed attack.

He had been due to be retried at Kingston Crown Court when he changed his plea.

Earlier this year he stood trial alongside five others accused of plotting the
attacks, but the jury was deadlocked in his case.

Four of the men were jailed for life in July at Woolwich Crown Court after being
convicted of conspiracy to murder.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, Ramzi Mohammed, Yassin Omar and Hussain Osman were told
they would serve a minimum of 40 years in prison.

Asiedu is likely to receive a lesser sentence because of his guilty plea.

Adel Yahya, 25, of Tottenham, north London, was jailed this month for his role
in the failed attacks.

He was sentenced to six years and nine months' imprisonment after admitting
collecting information likely to be useful to terrorists.

Asiedu was supposed to be the fifth bomber but he ``lost his nerve at the last
moment'', Woolwich Crown Court heard during the trial.

Instead, he dumped his bomb in a wooded area in Little Wormwood Scrubs, where it
was found two days later.

The attacks on July 21 2005 took place on three Underground trains at Shepherd's
Bush station, Oval station and Warren Street station, and a bus in Hackney Road.

The home-made bombs failed to go off only because of mistakes calculating the
ratios of the deadly ingredients.

Two weeks earlier, on July 7, a similar plot killed 52 people on London's
transport network.

Ghanaian-born Asiedu, also known as Sumaila Abu Bakari, arrived in the UK on a
fake passport in December 2003.

He admitted purchasing all of the hydrogen peroxide used in the attempted
bombings, but said he refused to take part in the attacks.

He will be sentenced at Kingston Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: HHH


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 19, 2007 Monday 2:46 AM BST

FIFTH BOMBER FACES SENTENCE FOR FAILED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: PA Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


The fifth July 21 bomber will be sentenced today for his role in the plot to
attack London's transport network.

Manfo Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty earlier this month to
conspiracy to cause explosions in connection with the failed attack.

He had been due to be retried at Kingston Crown Court when he changed his plea.

Earlier this year he stood trial alongside five others accused of plotting the
attacks, but the jury was deadlocked in his case.

Four of the men were jailed for life in July at Woolwich Crown Court after being
convicted of conspiracy to murder.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, Ramzi Mohammed, Yassin Omar and Hussain Osman were told
they would serve a minimum of 40 years in prison.

Asiedu is likely to receive a lesser sentence because of his guilty plea.

Adel Yahya, 25, of Tottenham, north London, was jailed this month for his role
in the failed attacks.

He was sentenced to six years and nine months' imprisonment after admitting
collecting information likely to be useful to terrorists.

Asiedu was supposed to be the fifth bomber but he ``lost his nerve at the last
moment'', Woolwich Crown Court heard during the trial.

Instead, he dumped his bomb in a wooded area in Little Wormwood Scrubs, where it
was found two days later.

The attacks on July 21 2005 took place on three Underground trains at Shepherd's
Bush station, Oval station and Warren Street station, and a bus in Hackney Road.

The home-made bombs failed to go off only because of mistakes calculating the
ratios of the deadly ingredients.

Two weeks earlier, on July 7, a similar plot killed 52 people on London's
transport network.

Ghanaian-born Asiedu, also known as Sumaila Abu Bakari, arrived in the UK on a
fake passport in December 2003.

He admitted purchasing all of the hydrogen peroxide used in the attempted
bombings, but said he refused to take part in the attacks.

He will be sentenced at Kingston Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 20, 2007, Tuesday

Further terrorist attacks inevitable, says Scotland's new top policeman

BYLINE: Charlene Sweeney

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 527 words


The new chief constable of Scotland's biggest police force was attacked
yesterday over claims that the country is likely to face another terror attack
in the next few years.

Stephen House, who took over as Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police yesterday,
said that after the terror attack at Glasgow airport in June it was inevitable
that Scotland would again become a target.

Mr House also raised the possibility that the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow
would make the city vulnerable. He said: "I would be surprised in the next few
years if there are not further terrorist incidents in Scotland."

"I know from my experience with the Metropolitan Police that the potential for a
terrorist attack is considered very high at the 2012 Olympic Games.

"There is a risk that this would be looked on as less of an issue at the 2014
Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. However it has to be viewed as an inevitable
threat."

But Muslim leaders said that they were disappointed with Mr House's comments,
and accused him of undue pessimism.

Osama Saeed, Scottish spokesman for the Muslim Association of Britain, said: "If
he has real intelligence to show that there is not just the possibility but, as
he said, the inevitability of another attack, then there should be enough
information to stop these people.

"We're all aware of the possibility, but it's surely by no means certain. I'd
also query whether he is an any more qualified person to judge the politics than
the next person, or whether in fact our head of police should be making such
sweeping statements at all."

Glasgow-born Mr House, formerly Assistant Commissioner with the Metropolitan
Police in London, replaces Sir Willie Rae, who has retired after six years
heading the Strathclyde force. Mr House will control a budget of £ 500 million,
with 7,500 officers and 3,000 civilian staff under his command.

He brings with him considerable experience of anti-terror operations. During his
tenure at the Metropolitan force he headed an internal investigation into the
shooting by police of Jean Charles de Menezes at a London Underground station.

He said that he had been impressed by the response of the Strathclyde force to
the Glasgow airport attack. "I think events on and in the immediate aftermath of
June 30 this year showed how professionally and sensitively this force dealt
with such a large-scale incident, and yet was able to continue with what we
would regard as the day-to-day business of policing," he said.

Mr House praised Muslim leaders for helping to maintain good relations between
the police and minority communities but urged people to report their suspicions
about extremists.

He said: "As a force, Strathclyde Police will continue to be vigilant on behalf
of the communities.

"But we must ask that the communities remain vigilant themselves and work with
us to drive out those who would divide us."

Professor Paul Wilkinson, chairman of the Centre for Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at the University of St Andrews, said: "His comments are
fully justified and they indicate that he intends to ensure that the Strathclyde
force is well prepared for this particular task of countering terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Internet Business News

                               November 21, 2007

Tier-3 warns of German plans to use Trojans to attack terrorists' PCs

LENGTH: 140 words


INTERNET BUSINESS NEWS-©1995-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

IT security software vendor Tier-3 has warned that the German government has
started hiring programmers to develop 'white hat' malware capable of stealth
hacking terrorist's PCs.

According to the company, despite an initial government freeze on plans to use
stealth Trojan technology, which were revealed in the media in late August 2007,
the German government has instructed the BKA Federal Police to hire specialist
programmers to develop the Trojans.

The Trojans will be launched against suspects disguised as a harmless e-mail,
which means that they pose a serious IT security threat if they fall into the
wrong hands, as conventional IT security software will have no protection
against their usage on civilian PCs, the company said.

(Comments on this story may be sent to info@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2007 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                TelecomWorldWire

                               November 21, 2007

Tier-3 warns of German plans to use Trojans to attack terrorists' PCs

LENGTH: 158 words


TELECOMWORLDWIRE-21 November 2007-Tier-3 warns of German plans to use Trojans to
attack terrorists' PCs ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD http://www.m2.com

IT security software vendor Tier-3 has warned that the German government has
started hiring programmers to develop 'white hat' malware capable of stealth
hacking terrorist's PCs.

According to the company, despite an initial government freeze on plans to use
stealth Trojan technology, which were revealed in the media in late August 2007,
the German government has instructed the BKA Federal Police to hire specialist
programmers to develop the Trojans.

The Trojans will be launched against suspects disguised as a harmless e-mail,
which means that they pose a serious IT security threat if they fall into the
wrong hands, as conventional IT security software will have no protection
against their usage on civilian PCs, the company said.

(Comments on this story may be sent to tww.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 23, 2007 Friday

Iraqi Kurds deny president injured in "terrorist "attack

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report by Iraqi Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) satellite TV on 23
November

Head of Kurdistan Region Presidency Office Fu'ad Husayn has denied fabricated
reports by Arab media which claimed that [Kurdistan Regional] President [Mas'ud]
Barzani had been injured as a result of a terrorist attack. Fu'ad Husayn has
said that the reports were completely fabricated and false because President
Barzani was on a private trip abroad and his trip was not related to his health.
Therefore, we thought it was necessary to refute the reports.

Issued by head of Kurdistan Region Presidency Office on 23 November 2007.

Source: Kurdistan Satellite TV, Arbil, in Sorani Kurdish 1230 gmt 23 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Terror detentions under attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 177 words


The Uk Government's plan to increase the length of time a terror suspect can be
detained without charge has been  dealt a major blow  after two human rights
organisations criticised the move.

Amnesty International and Justice have dismissed any case for extending the
limit.

Amnesty has published 10 reasons why it thinks extending pre-charge detention is
a bad idea while Justice says that terrorism investigations in the United States
have not prevented police from charging suspects within 48 hours of their
arrest.

It is thought that the government is considering extending the limit from 28
days to 56 days.

Amnesty argues  an extension would lead to deteriorating relations with the
Moslem community.

Justice has released details of 10 high-profile terrorism cases in the US
between 2002 and 2007 which show that every suspect charged with an offence was
charged within 48 hours of  arrest.

Eric Metcalfe, Justice's director of human rights policy and report author,
said: "If the FBI can charge a terror suspect in 48 hours, why do UK police need
more than 28 days?"

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Maldives home minister says terror attacks will not be repeated

LENGTH: 429 words


Text of report by Maldives privately-owned newspaper Haveeru Daily website on 26
November

Male, [Monday] 26 November, 2007 - The Minster of Home Affairs Abdulla
Kamauluddin has assured the Maldivian public that the kind of attack that had
occurred in Sultan Park on 29 September which injured 12 foreign tourists would
not be repeated.

When asked what kind of assurance he could guarantee the public that the second
bomb made by the perpetrators of 29/9 attack, and still being hunted for by
security forces, would not be detonated in Male, the home minister said the
security forces were very vigilant about it.

"It's not only the police who are guarding the island," he said. "All the
security forces in the country are keeping a look-out. So I can very confidently
assure you that, God willing, such an attack won't happen. We are still
searching for additional information about it."

The minister, however, also said that such people will still come up with plans
to attack the country and that they will try to carry out their plans.

"We are looking into all such cases and gathering information about it," he
said. "God willing, those who plan such things will never succeed."

In an interview with Haveeru Daily, the minister said that the national security
forces had been completely in control of keeping the peace in the country,
before and after 29/11 and that there was no reason that residents and tourists
should worry about it.

"Our investigations into the bombing is progressing at a very fast pace," he
said. "So there is no reason for people in Maldives and tourists coming to
Maldives to believe that there is a huge terrorist threat in the country. Things
will never become that dangerous."

The home minister also said that the public was very concerned about the 29/9
attack and that the government had received invaluable help from the public
during their investigations.

The explosion at Sultan Park on 29 September had been caused by an improvised
explosive devise (IED) and it had injured 12 tourists who had been visiting the
park at the time. The Maldives Police Service has arrested 14 people so far in
connection with the bombing; 10 more people connected to the bombing had fled to
Pakistan and police are collaborating with Interpol to locate them by posting
Red Notices in 186 countries.

The investigations into the bombing had revealed that the perpetrators had also
constructed another bomb, similar to the one that was detonated at the Sultan
Park. Police are still looking for the second bomb.

Source: Haveeru Daily website, Male, in English 26 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday

Number of terror attacks in Russia down 15 times since 2003 - interior minister

LENGTH: 582 words


The number of terrorist attacks in Russia has decreased 15 times in the past
four years, Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev has said.

"Smoothly coordinated and synchronized actions of the law enforcement agencies
have prevented large-scale sabotage and terrorist attacks in the Southern
Federal District," Nurgaliyev told an extended session of the military council
of the Interior Ministry's Internal Troops in Moscow on 28 November, as reported
by Interfax news agency at 0944 gmt on the same day. "The measures taken have
significantly contributed to the reduction of terrorist security [as received]
not only in the North Caucasus but in the whole of Russia. Thirty-eight
terrorist attacks were reported in the first nine months of this year, against
561 in 2003."

Nurgaliyev said that the Internal Troops and law enforcement agencies carried
out 856 joint operations in 2007, which resulted in "the neutralization of 55
leaders and members of armed groups".

A further Interfax report at 0951 gmt quoted Nurgaliyev as telling the council
session that a foreign mercenary had recently been killed during a law
enforcement operation in Chechnya.

"I may say that, in the course of a successful operation carried out the day
before yesterday and yesterday, a foreign mercenary was killed in Chechnya's
Shatoyskiy District; he had a direct connection to the organizational nucleus of
international terrorist organizations," Nurgaliyev said.

He stressed that the "increasing role" of the Internal Troops in protecting
Russia's constitutional system and maintaining public security "calls for
exhaustive measures to be taken in order to maintain high discipline among
servicemen", Interfax reported at 0944 gmt.

"A certain amount of work has already been done in the troops to enforce law and
reduce the occurrence of negative incidents," Nurgaliyev said. "The total number
of crimes committed by [Internal Troops] personnel has dropped by 13 per cent;
instances of bullying aimed against fellow servicemen by over 25 per cent;
instances of conscription dodging by 11 per cent; instances of abuse of power by
superiors over their subordinates by almost 30 per cent."

Nurgaliyev named the protection of order in the North Caucasus as the top
priority for the Internal Troops in 2008, RIA Novosti news agency reported at
0946 gmt.

"Efforts should be focused on stabilizing the situation and preventing sabotage
and terrorist attacks in the North Caucasus; this is a priority task of the
Internal Troops," he said.

Nurgaliyev added that the protection of state critical facilities will remain a
primary aspect of the Internal Troops' activities in 2008, given the persistent
threat to their security from international terrorist organizations.

He also said that, in view of the upcoming reduction in the period of compulsory
military service to 12 months, the existing combat training programme in the
Internal Troops should be reviewed in order to enhance its effectiveness.

"The combat training programmes should be thoroughly reviewed, and troops
training should be organized in the most effective way," Nurgaliyev said.
"Combat training should be planned and conducted in the way that would enable
servicemen to acquire professional skills in the shortest possible time and to
the full extent, and to be ready for service and combat in varied
circumstances."

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0944 gmt, 0951 gmt 28 Nov 07;
RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0946 gmt 28 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday

Israel fears terror attacks, moves against illegal Palestinian workers

LENGTH: 352 words


Text of report in English by Rebecca Anna Stoil headlined "Annapolis crackdown
nets 2,500 illegal Palestinians in Israel", published by Israeli newspaper The
Jerusalem Post website on 28 November

Under the shadow of a raised terror alert surrounding the conference in
Annapolis, police have arrested 2,500 Palestinians working illegally in Israel
over the last two days.

The police said the crackdown was designed to reduce the threat of terror
attacks launched by terrorists seeking to derail the conference.

The 2,500 were detained and removed to the Palestinian [National] Authority, and
approximately 60 criminal files were opened against employers, smugglers and
those providing shelter to the workers.

The operation was under way for two days, and approximately 2,000 police
officers and Border Police participated. Police explained that terrorists often
infiltrate along the same routes as illegal workers who make their way across
the Green Line every day.

Officers in the National Headquarters said that the level of alert would
continue at least until Thursday, with increased police presence in public
gathering areas and at the entrances of major cities.

But although long lines of traffic were reported at checkpoints following more
stringent checks of vehicles, the first day of the Annapolis summit was
completed with minimal interference by terror operatives in the West Bank.

A suspicious package was discovered at Mishtara Habritit Junction on Route 60,
and items believed to be planted in advance of a potential attack were
discovered in Kiryat Sefer, near Modi'in.

In addition, two incidents of rock-throwing by Palestinians were reported, one
north of Hebron and one south of the Judean city.

The windshield of one vehicle was damaged, but no injuries were reported.

The Judea and Samaria District Police refused to comment Tuesday on the overall
security picture in their district, but did say that in the coming days, a
report would be published regarding attacks and vandalism against what they
described as "national infrastructures."

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 28 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday

Terror on tram in cleaver attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 365 words


Three people have been told they face Christmas behind bars after a terrifying
attack  on a tram.

Keith Harvey, 22, was left with a broken arm and severe cuts after being
attacked with a meat cleaver as the tram he was on pulled into Basford.

Jonathan Lay, 28, admitted wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.
He had pulled the weapon from his own child's pushchair during the unprovoked
attack on July 17.

Simon Matthews, 20, admitted affray in connection with the incident and Gillian
Bone, 22, admitted affray and common assault on a friend of Mr Harvey.

The victim, who knew Lay, spoke to him as the tram was pulling into the Basford
stop. Lay insulted him before running off the tram and back on through a
different door.

During that time he had pulled the meat cleaver from his  toddler's pushchair,
leaving other passengers terrified.

Matthews restrained Mr Harvey, who had been trying to escape, before Lay dragged
him to the ground and struck him with the cleaver.

Mr Harvey, who worked as a cleaner, was left with a fracture to a bone in his
arm as well as severe cuts after the attack at 10.40pm.

The whole incident was captured on the tram's CCTV cameras and the footage was
used by police to prosecute the trio.

Matthews was seen trying to drag Lay from Mr Harvey after the injuries had been
inflicted.

Bone, a mother of one young child, repeatedly punched Lucy Byrne, who had been
travelling on the tram with Mr Harvey.  The court heard that Lay, of  Woodfield
Road, Broxtowe Estate, had a fascination with weaponry. Bone, of  Tewkesbury
Drive, Basford, and Matthews, of Warwick Close, Kirkby-in-Ashfield, were unaware
he had the cleaver in his possession.

All three are set to be sentenced together on December 20. Judge Dudley Bennett
released Bone on bail and said: "I regard this as an especially serious incident
on a tram and just because she has a young child it does not follow that she
will not receive an immediate custodial sentence for it."

Matthews was also released on bail until sentencing. Judge Bennett told him: "I
see this as a particularly serious charge of affray and you must expect to spend
Christmas in custody."

kate.skelton@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Scots NHS not vetting foreign staff, finds health probe;
Fears after Glasgow Airport terror attack

BYLINE: HELEN PUTTICK HEALTH CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words


FOREIGN staff are working in the Scottish NHS without the full range of vetting
checks, according to a probe of health board files.

The investigation, ordered in the wake of the Glasgow Airport terrorist attack,
found gaps in the records held on overseas workers, including doctors and
nurses.

Audit Scotland, which published the findings today, also said the health service
did not know how many international staff it employed.

John Lamont, Conservative Shadow Minister for Community Safety, said: "These
people are working with children and vulnerable groups, so it is imperative that
we create as safe an environment as possible. At the moment, that is not
happening."

Three doctors are facing trial next year in connection with the failed car
bombings in Glasgow and London this summer. In the wake of the incident, when a
Jeep was driven into Glasgow Airport terminal and burst into flames, Health
Secretary Nicola Sturgeon asked Audit Scotland to see if vetting guidelines were
being met by health boards.

Managers reported that 1161 staff from outside the European Economic Area are
working in the Scottish health service, of which 89per cent are doctors and
nurses.

However, Audit Scotland warned this is likely to be an under-estimate, and said:
"The NHS in Scotland does not have an accurate picture of the number of overseas
staff employed. This means we are unable to give an assurance that the sample of
personnel records we reviewed is representative."

A sample of 235 personnel files from the five health boards with the highest
number of international staff - Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Ayrshire and Arran,
Grampian, Lanarkshire and Lothian - were then examined by the auditors.

In one-in-10 cases there was no evidence work references had been obtained by
the health board and in one in 20 there was no confirmation of criminal record
checks with Disclosure Scotland.

Proof the employee's identity had been checked was available in 97per cent of
the files, but missing from seven. Qualification and professional regulator
checks had clearly been carried out in 99per cent of cases, but there were three
where it had not.

Barbara Hurst, Audit Scotland's director of public reporting, said she was
impressed with the level of compliance. However, she added: "In an ideal world
it would be 100per cent. Just because the evidence is not there, does not mean
the check was not done, but that would rely on someone remembering."

The pressure boards faced to complete the necessary checks on junior doctors
applying for training posts within a certain time, under a new system this
summer, was also exposed by the research.

The report recommends wider use of electronic personnel records to ensure they
are filled routinely. It also calls for the inclusion of immigration status in
the national workforce database so the NHS knows how much it is using overseas
doctors.

Dr Peter Terry, chairman of the British Medical Association Scotland, said he
was pleased the significant contribution of overseas doctors was recognised in
the report.

However, he questioned the need to refine the current vetting system: "The
report suggests that current pre-employment checks are working well in NHS
Scotland and it is not clearwhat added value the recommendations will deliver.

"Any changes to the existing procedures, however, should not increase the burden
of bureaucracy or create delays for employing individuals from overseas."

A spokeswoman for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said they were satisfied that in
the small number of files where Audit Scotland found checks had not been
recorded, they had nonetheless been carried out.

LINK

audit-scotland.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday

Anti-terror laws are an attack on liberty

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 794 words


With the Government haggling with its supporters about increasing detention
without charge for terrorist suspects, beyond the 28 days that haven't yet
proved limiting to investigators, I think it wants a lever to apply
anti-terrorism type laws more widely: if it can lock up terrorists for three
months it will want to detain criminals and troublemakers for a month without
charging them.

It has already used anti-terrorism laws against perpetrators of mere
misdemeanours like barracking a minister at a party conference or peaceful
Parliament Square demonstrations by mistreated farmers.

I hope supporters of Habeas Corpus which, with Magna Carta, is also under attack
from Europe's Corpus Juris, succeed in preserving  citizens' right to express
discontentment when we want to, and so reverse our inexorable progress to
becoming a totalitarian state.

Just as closed circuit television purports to prevent and/or detect crime and
speed cameras deter excessive road speed our surveillance systems,  more common
in the UK than anywhere else in the world, could be used to identify and detain
anyone who expresses disenchantment with our increasingly anti-democratic
government.

We probably have more to fear from our own Government than from terrorism or
even nuclear war. If the paranoid Republican Party has never managed to use
nuclear weapons in anger, I doubt whether  any other government or terrorist
organisation would ever do so, because it would be suicidal for them and all
other life on Earth.

Tony Maskell

Newton Ferrers

I FOUND Susan Jackson's letter  "Why Paint Palestinian Women  as Victims?"
(November 20) a  spiteful, racially divisive attack on  Palestinians,
particularly Palestinian women.  Sweeping statements about the role of the
media in rising anti-Semitism in  Britain and Europe and about  the Islamic
religion being anti  almost everything are untrue.

To  suggest that Palestinian women  proudly send their loved ones to  martyrdom
and enjoy resulting  celebrity status and financial  recompense is an exercise
in  demonisation and dehumanisation  typical of mainstream Israeli reaction to
anything that shows empathy for the Palestinians' plight.

When will Israelis  learn to take responsibility for  their illegal and
repressive  actions rather than projecting  their unacceptable behaviour  on to
their victims, the Palestinians?

Unpalatable as it may be  for Ms Jackson, the Palestinians  are in fact the
victims in this  conflict; they are the people who  were driven out of their
homes  in what is now called Israel in  1948, and they are the people  who are
at this very moment  being ethnically cleansed from  the rest of ancient
Palestine in the West Bank and Gaza.

And the fact is that research  suggests that the Press massively  under-report
Palestinians'  deaths and Israeli acts of aggression against the Palestinians -
perhaps this is why Ms Jackson  has a someone hallucinatory  view of what is
really going on  out there.

Susan Fanous

Plymouth

IN reference to Western  Morning News articles by Kate  Ironside, I support a
referendum on the European  Treaty; as it is placing us in a club  we cannot
afford to join,  we must get out of that EU club  membership.

Money saved could go on   pensions, health and education; we can run our own
country ourselves.

Businesses are being  taken over by foreign companies which are laying off staff
as a cost-cutting measure. New cars are  made from parts from other  countries
and all look like they  have been cloned from another  car looking the same.

If we do not do something about  it, where will it end?

James Rowe

St Austell

IN view of adverse publicity in a recent issue of  your newspaper, I thought you
might like to publish part of a letter I wrote  after being treated for a
serious  illness at the Royal Cornwall Hospital, Treliske:

"I was admitted on Saturday,   November 10 at 5pm in a very poor  state.

"From the moment of  arrival until my discharge on  Thursday, November 15 the
care  and attention given to me by  everyone involved was outstanding.

"Please accept my grateful thanks,  as quite frankly I did not think I  would
recover. To do so as  quickly as I did is indeed only  because of everyone
concerned  in my treatment."

Jim Stenning

St Agnes

GORDON Brown's proposals to improve our defence against terrorist attacks make
it seem that he feels  our Intelligence Service  is not adequate to provide the
extra protection that the new measures would give us.

These will be costly and interfere with one's independence, so would it not be
better for the Government to give more support to the Intelligence Service to
enable it to give the added security hoped for from the new measures, thus
avoiding interfering with our independence and saving some money?

Ian Wans

Okehampton

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                December 4, 2007

TynTec: TynTec signs with Regpoint to provide global disaster warning SMS
network; Crisis IT specialist to provide global SMS alert system for tsunamis,
disease epidemics and terror attacks using TynTec

LENGTH: 883 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 4, 2007-TynTec: TynTec signs with Regpoint to provide
global disaster warning SMS network; Crisis IT specialist to provide global SMS
alert system for tsunamis, disease epidemics and terror attacks using TynTec
©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

London, UK: TynTec, the mobile messaging services provider, today announces a
deal with global healthcare and crisis IT specialist Regpoint to provide high
volume SMS delivery for use in emergency situations. The agreement will see
Regpoint using TynTec's custom-built messaging technology to send large numbers
of SMS to quickly alert people of tsunamis, terrorist attacks, disease epidemics
and other emergencies.

Using TynTec's custom-built SMSC and deep level (SS7) connection into the global
telecoms network Regpoint can be assured of sending millions of 'Flash' SMS in
short time frames, regardless of the recipient network operator. Flash SMS are
especially good for emergency situations because they appear directly on the
recipients screen, as opposed to going into the inbox. This means people signed
up for the service, which includes government officials, emergency services and
doctors, can receive timely warnings on impending disasters, allowing them to
react as quickly as possible.

Because of TynTec's unique access into the global mobile telecoms network the
company can guarantee direct delivery of the flash SMS' to more than 340
networks worldwide within 15 seconds. Therefore not only does TynTec allow
Regpoint to issue a vast number of SMS, but also to ensure they are delivered to
people roaming across different territories.

Sophia Salenius, CEO from Regpoint said "The TynTec platform gives us the
powerful ability to guarantee the delivery of emergency SMS to a vast number of
people throughout the globe, helping to save as many lives as possible in
emergency situations.

"None of the operators we contacted had the capacity to send anywhere near this
volume of SMS or had a similar global reach. TynTec's high volume SMS capability
can throughput the millions of SMS required to get the flash messages out to as
many people as possible, as quickly as possible, as well as providing the
reassurance that messages will not get lost along the way."

Michael Kowalzik, CEO of TynTec, said, "It is a validation of the strength of
the TynTec offering that we are being used for a purpose as important as this.
The fact that our messaging services are being used to save lives and safeguard
people from dangerous situations underlines the capability of the TynTec
messaging platform to deliver SMS as quickly as possible.

About TynTec

TynTec is a mobile messaging service provider, offering powerful SMS
functionality to operators, enterprises, ISPs, message aggregators and
resellers. Through partnerships with mobile operators TynTec has unique,
multiple points of access into the deep level mobile telecoms network (SS7),
enabling it to offer a new level of quality in messaging services.

TynTec offers a range of services that leverage its network access including
outsourced operator messaging services, international SMS hubbing, wholesale
messaging and enterprise SMS.

TynTec works with a wide range of mobile operators and major global businesses
including O2, Accenture, British Airways and Skype.

Products

Managed services - TynTec's Managed Services enable operators of all sizes to
outsource non-core technical activities such as long-number SMS reception, OTA,
number range hosting and even the entire SMS-C

Wholesale SMS - TynTec provides mobile service providers such as SMS resellers
and aggregators with enterprise-grade SMS services, such as incoming and
outgoing SMS, Voice-Enabled Long Numbers and Network Query.

Enterprise SMS - TynTec's enterprise services division offers businesses and
financial service providers enterprise-quality SMS messaging, enabling them to
use SMS in mission critical applications such as logistics and corporate
communications.

Banking industry - TynTec's banking industry product line enables retail banks
to offer SMS tools to their customers, from transaction notifications through to
highly secure one time passwords (OTP) for online banking

About RegPoint Ltd

RegPoint Ltd is a health services company focused on bringing wireless
technology to the global health care community. The RegPoint(tm) product suite
consists of three software components: the RegPoint(tm) Pocket, RegPoint(tm)
Care and RegPoint(tm) Supervisor. The solution is used to facilitate two-way
wireless medical data transfer between individual citizens, health authorities
and care providers. It can be used in managing chronic disease conditions for
individuals, a global warning system that release potentially life-saving
information and alerts on natural catastrophes within minutes and/or as a first
stage pandemic disease detection tool at the individual citizen level.

CONTACT: Patrick Herridge, Parys Communications Tel: +44 (0)20 7622 9951 e-mail;
pherridge@parys.com Sophia Salenius, Managing Director, RegPoint Tel: +46 733 92
22 40

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday

Family in axe attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 24 words


A Family who were  attacked in their home by a father and son brandishing a
crowbar and an axe have spoken about their terror. witnessed the attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday

Allders staff 'terrorised' by tram attacker

BYLINE: Kerry McQueeney

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: Croydon Guardian


A paranoid schizophrenic who partially blinded a 96-year-old war veteran on a
Croydon tram is terrorising girls working on Allders' perfumery counter, it has
been claimed.

Sources at Allders described Stephen Gordon as a "walking timebomb" as they
revealed fears he could launch an attack on someone at the North End store.

Gordon walked free from court in October after he was given a three-year
supervision order for the attack on Shah Chaudury.

The 44-year-old, from Croydon, attacked the pensioner on a tram travelling
between Sandilands and East Croydon on December 14 last year. Mr Chaudury lost
the sight in one eye and also suffered a stroke a few months after the attack.

A source at Allders said: "Stephen Gordon has been banned from Allders for a
while now. But he walks through the store all the time and heads straight for
the perfumery counter and starts chatting up the girls working on there.

"The problem is by the time security are made aware, either by seeing him on
camera or by getting a call from the perfumery counter, he is gone. From the
moment they realise he is there it takes security a good two or three minutes to
reach the counter. By that time he is gone.

"He might be mentally unbalanced but he's clever enough to know how to come in
and get out without being caught by security.

"The girls are terrified, particularly in light of what he did to the elderly
gentleman, and we are all really worried that he could be capable of doing
something terrible. He's a walking timebomb.

"Obviously we don't agree with the court's decision to give him such a lenient
sentence - if he is mentally unstable he should not be allowed to walk freely
among the community.

"We are now having to deal with the fear that he could do something else. And
there's not a thing we can do about it."

Gordon had tried to push past Mr Chaudury, who had been standing in the aisle of
the tram leaning on his walking sticks.

As Gordon tried to walk under the elderly man's arms to get by his hat came off
and he lashed out at the veteran, calling him a "bastard" before punching him in
the face.

Tramlink refused to ban Gordon from the tram network following the conviction
saying it would be too hard to police.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Banned: Stephen Gordon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday

Allders staff 'terrorised' by tram attacker

BYLINE: Kerry McQueeney

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


A paranoid schizophrenic who partially blinded a 96-year-old war veteran on a
Croydon tram is terrorising girls working on Allders' perfumery counter, it has
been claimed.

Sources at Allders described Stephen Gordon as a "walking timebomb" as they
revealed fears he could launch an attack on someone at the North End store.

Gordon walked free from court in October after he was given a three-year
supervision order for the attack on Shah Chaudury.

The 44-year-old, from Croydon, attacked the pensioner on a tram travelling
between Sandilands and East Croydon on December 14 last year. Mr Chaudury lost
the sight in one eye and also suffered a stroke a few months after the attack.

A source at Allders said: "Stephen Gordon has been banned from Allders for a
while now. But he walks through the store all the time and heads straight for
the perfumery counter and starts chatting up the girls working on there.

"The problem is by the time security are made aware, either by seeing him on
camera or by getting a call from the perfumery counter, he is gone. From the
moment they realise he is there it takes security a good two or three minutes to
reach the counter. By that time he is gone.

"He might be mentally unbalanced but he's clever enough to know how to come in
and get out without being caught by security.

"The girls are terrified, particularly in light of what he did to the elderly
gentleman, and we are all really worried that he could be capable of doing
something terrible. He's a walking timebomb.

"Obviously we don't agree with the court's decision to give him such a lenient
sentence - if he is mentally unstable he should not be allowed to walk freely
among the community.

"We are now having to deal with the fear that he could do something else. And
there's not a thing we can do about it."

Gordon had tried to push past Mr Chaudury, who had been standing in the aisle of
the tram leaning on his walking sticks.

As Gordon tried to walk under the elderly man's arms to get by his hat came off
and he lashed out at the veteran, calling him a "bastard" before punching him in
the face.

Tramlink refused to ban Gordon from the tram network following the conviction
saying it would be too hard to police.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                December 4, 2007

Allders staff 'terrorised' by tram attacker

BYLINE: Kerry McQueeney

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 367 words


A paranoid schizophrenic who partially blinded a 96-year-old war veteran on a
Croydon tram is terrorising girls working on Allders' perfumery counter, it has
been claimed.

Sources at Allders described Stephen Gordon as a "walking timebomb" as they
revealed fears he could launch an attack on someone at the North End store.

Gordon walked free from court in October after he was given a three-year
supervision order for the attack on Shah Chaudury.

The 44-year-old, from Croydon, attacked the pensioner on a tram travelling
between Sandilands and East Croydon on December 14 last year. Mr Chaudury lost
the sight in one eye and also suffered a stroke a few months after the attack.

A source at Allders said: "Stephen Gordon has been banned from Allders for a
while now. But he walks through the store all the time and heads straight for
the perfumery counter and starts chatting up the girls working on there.

"The problem is by the time security are made aware, either by seeing him on
camera or by getting a call from the perfumery counter, he is gone. From the
moment they realise he is there it takes security a good two or three minutes to
reach the counter. By that time he is gone.

"He might be mentally unbalanced but he's clever enough to know how to come in
and get out without being caught by security.

"The girls are terrified, particularly in light of what he did to the elderly
gentleman, and we are all really worried that he could be capable of doing
something terrible. He's a walking timebomb.

"Obviously we don't agree with the court's decision to give him such a lenient
sentence - if he is mentally unstable he should not be allowed to walk freely
among the community.

"We are now having to deal with the fear that he could do something else. And
there's not a thing we can do about it."

Gordon had tried to push past Mr Chaudury, who had been standing in the aisle of
the tram leaning on his walking sticks.

As Gordon tried to walk under the elderly man's arms to get by his hat came off
and he lashed out at the veteran, calling him a "bastard" before punching him in
the face.

Tramlink refused to ban Gordon from the tram network following the conviction
saying it would be too hard to police.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    Time Out

                                December 5, 2007

The Mayor on trial - Can Ken still cut it?;
In 2000, a fiercely independent Ken Livingstone became the first Mayor of
Greater London, with an ambitious vision for the future of the city. His tenure
has been eventful: congestion charging, media spats, clashes with the government
and, in a single week, a successful Olympic bid followed by a horrific terrorist
attack. So are we still in thrall to him? Or is the capital feeling the
seven-year itch? As Ken prepares to fight to keep his job next May, we look back
at his successes and failures and ask our jury of Londoners if he's worthy of
re-election. Compiled by Rebecca Taylor; Illustrations Harriet Buckley; Icons
Sim Greenaway

BYLINE: Rebecca Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3214 words


TRANSPORT

The case for: The Congestion Charge has been a resounding success. It has
reduced congestion by 20 per cent, generated revenues of around £122 million a
year - which have been invested back into transport improvements - and cut CO2
emissions within the congestion zone by some 16 per cent. London is now regarded
as an archetype for urban transport schemes across the world. As a result of the
Charge, bus transport has boomed, with up to 6 million people using buses on
some days. Livingstone has also secured funds for Crossrail (the high-speed
east-west link running right across the city), which will expand London's public
transport capacity by 10 per cent. He is undertaking a massive refurbishment of
the tube, including the extension of the East London line, upgrades of the
Jubilee Line and DLR and the recent takeover of the North London Line. Since
2000, there has also been a 72 per cent increase in the number of cyclists on
the roads.

The case against: The Congestion Charge has damaged business in central London.
In 2004, John Lewis calculated that the Charge had resulted in a 5.52 per cent
drop in sales at its Oxford Street store. The £16 billion needed to fund
Crossrail means that at least three other major projects are likely to be put on
ice, including the extension of the Croydon tram link to Crystal Palace and the
proposed Docklands Light Railway route linking Barking Riverside and Dagenham.
London's fares continue to be the most expensive in the world. And, of course,
many Londoners have still not forgiven Livingstone for ditching the beloved
Routemaster buses in 2005.

Our jury's verdict: 'The Mayor is no expert on transport and it is a socialist
dream that does not work. His policies have failed singularly.' Alan Fleming

Our jury's vote: Has Ken's transport policy been a success?

For 5, Against 7

POLICING

The case for: Crime is falling in London: over the last five years, the rate has
dropped by the equivalent of one in six crimes. Crime fell by 6.1 per cent this
year alone. Since 2002, police numbers have increased by 22 per cent, and 3,700
police community support officers have been added. Since 2004, violent crime has
fallen by 10 per cent, murders by 11 per cent, and sexual offences by 14 per
cent.

The case against: Londoners don't feel safe on the streets. There were 1,825
gun-related crimes between April and September 2007, up 162 on the same period
last year. Youth crime on buses has shot up by 55 per cent since the
introduction of free bus travel for under-16-year-olds. Meanwhile, some believe
that the Mayor's support of Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Ian Blair over
the De Menezes shooting is misguided.

Our jury's verdict: 'The average person is far more affected by anti-social
behaviour than serious crime, regardless of what the figures say for the latter.
Zero tolerance for anti-social behaviour and petty crime in New York encouraged
people to take greater care of their city and I think the same needs to be done
in London.' Tristan Chapple

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's policies on policing been a success?

For 5, Against 7

PLANNING

The case for: The Mayor's target of 50 per cent of affordable homes for all new
residential developments has greatly improved the housing situation for those on
lower incomes and key workers (such as nurses and teachers). In September,
Livingstone pledged to build 50,000 new homes by 2011, increasing the number of
affordable homes by 50 per cent and doubling the number for affordable rent.
Ken's affinity for skyscrapers reflects his belief in solving housing problems
by building densely, and his desire to embrace technological and architectural
innovations to maintain London's status as a leading modern city.

The case against: Ken is in thrall to big developers, who have not made
'affordable housing' genuinely affordable. He has failed to enforce his own
affordability policies: for example, he has approved a new tower at Coin Street
on the South Bank with no provisions for affordable housing. The Mayor's fetish
for tall buildings will harm historic views of the Tower of London and the
Houses of Parliament. And he has caused disappointment over many other planning
issues, including the waving-through of the vast King's Cross project in the
face of huge community opposition.

Our jury's verdict: 'It is good that he is trying to provide affordable housing
for the people of London. Londoners on cleaners' wages cannot afford mortgages,
and often find it difficult to afford rents. Most of us only earn the minimum
wage and have to work very long hours, or even do two full-time jobs to make
ends meet.' Janet Obadele

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's planning policies been a success?

For 7, Against 5

WELFARE

The case for: The Mayor has inaugurated a London Skills and Employment Board,
which is tackling unemployment and skills shortages and aims to provide 75,000
jobs to Londoners by 2012. He is the first politician to endorse a London Living
Wage, which stipulates that the minimum wage for Londoners should be £7.20 per
hour, well above the national minimum of £5.35. He has also set up a commission
to tackle child poverty.

The case against: Despite Livingstone's platitudes on reducing inequality, the
real divide for most Londoners is transport costs: while the Mayor's Oyster card
is fine for the middle classes, it has become a burden for the poor, who pay by
cash as and when they need it. His support of business and the City has meant
that some local communities have felt marginalised in the name of large-scale
development.

Our jury's verdict: 'We live in a free market economy; provided measures are in
place to avoid illegal exploitation, I don't see that it's anyone's business to
impose a minimum London wage. Such a move would result in a large loss of jobs
as small businesses cannot afford to pay artificially high wages.' Tristan
Chapple

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's welfare policies been a success?

For 8, Against 4

CHARACTER

The case for: In the aftermath of the July 2005 bombings, Livingstone was a
hugely impressive leader. He pulled the capital together and promoted unity in
the months that followed. His unscripted speech in Singapore (where he had been
celebrating the successful Olympic bid) was a powerful and moving encapsulation
of how Londoners felt. A world city such as London needs a Mayor who is not
afraid to say what he thinks; some would argue that it is his maverick
personality that gets things done.

The case against: The Mayor's colourful private life and controversial outbursts
- he has compared President Bush to Hitler, and said the Saudi royals should be
hung - are arguably not appropriate for the leader of a world city. He upset
large sections of the gay and lesbian community with his embrace of the Islamic
cleric Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi (who supports the stoning of homosexuals and
beating of 'errant' wives), as well as the Jewish community when he told the
Reuben brothers, a pair of Indian-born Jewish property developers, that they
should 'go back to see if they can do better under the ayatollahs'. These
remarks, coupled with the incident where he compared a Jewish Evening Standard
reporter to a concentration-camp guard, have led to accusations of anti-Semitism
which he denies.

Our jury's verdict: 'He is who he is. It was us who voted him in - outbursts and
all.' Naima Abdillahi

Our jury's vote: Has Ken shown that he has the right character to be Mayor of
London?

For 5, Against 7

FOREIGN POLICY

The case for: Livingstone's 'oil for advice' deal with Venezuelan president Hugo
Chavez will see a 20 per cent reduction in the price of fuel for public
transport - a saving of up to £16m a year for London buses. This will mean
half-price travel for over 250,000 poor Londoners. Ken's links to the emerging
economies of China, Russia and India (he has 'embassies' in Shanghai and Beijing
and plans to open two more in Delhi and Mumbai) are part of his global vision
for the city.

The case against: His feting of Hugo Chavez during his state visit here in 2006
begs the question: why should public money be lavished on one of Latin America's
last dictatorships? When Livingstone recently visited Caracas to meet Chavez,
the president cancelled the meeting due to lack of time, an embarrassing snub
and further waste of taxpayers' money. The oil deal itself is questionable; it
means that one of the poorest countries in the world is effectively subsidising
transport in one of the richest. Similarly, with an eye to Chinese investment,
Livingstone has brushed aside China's human-rights abuses, saying of Chinese
leaders, 'No country has a perfect record.'

Our jury's verdict: 'There seems to be a lot of public money spent on the Mayor
and his entourage travelling abroad.' Margaret Claire McCall

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's foreign policy decisions been a success?

For 3, Against 9

CULTURE

The case for: Culture in London has blossomed under the Mayor: the Olympics has
a strong cultural element (the Cultural Olympiad), which will encompass a
year-long cultural programme. The staging of the Tour de France was also a major
coup. The Mayor has pedestrianised the north side of Trafalgar Square, greatly
enhancing its appeal, and barely a week goes by without a cultural celebration
in the square itself, encompassing everything from Diwali festivities to an
annual Russian fair. He has also funded art centres such as Rich Mix in East
London and fought cuts threatening the Battersea Arts Centre earlier this year.

The case against: The Olympics will divert £160m from Lottery heritage and arts
projects between 2009 and 2012. An alternative view of some of his investments
is that he has poured money into over-inflated New Labour-style projects (such
as Rich Mix), which have yet to deliver the sort of high-quality arts
programming they originally promised.

Our jury's verdict: 'I think he has done a decent job here, London certainly
feels more culturally vibrant than it did ten years ago.' Tristan Chapple

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's culture policies been a success?

For 7, Against 5

DIVERSITY

The case for: The Mayor has been a vocal supporter of gay rights: he launched
the first ever Partnerships Register in the UK, which eventually led to the
Civil Partnership Act, has long supported the annual Pride march, and criticised
the stance taken by Moscow's mayor following attacks on gay protesters on a
march in May. Following the July 2005 bombings, his call for unity emphasised
the ethnic make-up of the city and he has repeatedly called for an end to
Islamophobia, setting up a new campaign group earlier this year to tackle the
issue. He has also worked on improving access for disabled Londoners. Thanks to
the Mayor the capital now boasts a wealth of culturally diverse festivals
ranging from the Liberty festival in Trafalgar Square, which focuses on
disability, to the Rise anti-racism event in the summer.

The case against: Critics say the Mayor has a 'tick-box' mentality when it comes
to relations with the capital's minority communities, staging tokenist events in
Trafalgar Square and spouting race-friendly soundbites. His embrace of the
cleric al-Qaradawi could be seen as insensitive to the complexities of
multiculturalism. And he disappointed many in the Muslim communities with his
backing for the police officers involved in the ill-fated Forest Gate raid and
his support for the officers who shot Jean Charles de Menezes.

Our jury's verdict: 'He is far too PC for my liking - he has a tick box
mentality that works overtime.' Ranil Jayawardena

Our jury's vote: Have Ken's policies on diversity been a success?

For 7, Against 4, Undecided 1

THE OLYMPICS

The case for: The Mayor was the driving force behind the capital's successful
2012 Olympic bid, promising that the Games will deliver a massive regeneration
package for east London including investment of over £17bn on transport
projects, the creation of up to 50,000 new jobs, the construction of 3,600
apartments, increased sporting and leisure facilities and the development of
Stratford town centre.

The case against: One word sums up the anger of many Londoners towards the
Olympics: cost. And the annual £20 rise in council tax they will have to stomach
to fund it. The original budget of £2.4bn has now been bumped up to a whopping
£9.3bn. Although the Mayor has contested that figure with the government, it
nevertheless reflects the confusion and bad planning that surrounded the
original Olympic budget. There are also concerns that the development could turn
into another white elephant like the Millennium Dome. In addition, there is
resentment over the relocation of travellers and gypsies from their sites, the
destruction of 100-year-old allotments, the uprooting of businesses and broken
promises to relocate the Eastway cyclists.

Our jury's verdict: 'Although the money spent will be over the original budget,
I think it will be regenerative. I would hope that some of the money could come
from business and industry.' Margaret Claire McCall

Our jury's vote: Has Ken's Olympic policy been a success?

For 10, Against 2

THE ENVIRONMENT

The case for: The Congestion Charge has already reduced carbon emissions in the
heart of the city by an estimated 16 per cent, but Livingstone is planning to
cut the capital's CO2 by 60 per cent by 2025, a far more ambitious target than
that set by government. London is also refitting its public buildings next year
to bring them up to environmental standards. Ken is also the first major
politician to challenge the aviation industry. In 2008, he will introduce
Britain's first low-emission zone, which will ban heavy goods vehicles across
much of central London.

The case against: The Mayor's backing of a controversial £450m motorway-scale
bridge over the Thames in east London will increase traffic and emissions and -
say Friends of the Earth, the Greens and locals - cause environmental problems
for some of the poorest communities in London. In addition, the 2012 Olympics
have been dubbed the 'greenest Olympics ever', but houses in the Olympic village
will use less renewable energy than other new homes in the capital.

Our jury's verdict: 'The Congestion Charge is a tax on car use, not pollution,
as it doesn't discriminate between a car that belches out fumes and one that
does 60 miles to the gallon.' Tristan Chapple

Our jury's vote: Has Ken's environmental policy been a success?

For 7, Against 5

THE FINAL VERDICT

Our jury said Ken had been a success in six of the ten policy areas we put to
them, and unsuccessful in four.

So the final verdict goes in favour of the Mayor: Ken is fit to be re-elected
next year.

Our jury was selected from a representative cross-section of Londoners. Two of
them have asked for their names to be changed. The Mayor's response to the
court's findings will be published exclusively in Time Out next week.

- To comment on the trial and give us your verdict, visit
www.timeout.com/kenontrial

EXPERT WITNESSES

Nick Cohen, author

'Bizarrely, since the world has talked of little else since 9/11, most people
here don't understand Islamic politics, so the sight of Livingstone embracing
supporters of Jamaat-e-Islami and the Muslim Brotherhood (Islamist groups
associated with extremist ideas) doesn't shock them as it should. Let me put it
bluntly: it is no different from the Mayor embracing the BNP as the authentic
voice of white Londoners. Go Lib Dem, Green or Tory if you must. But don't vote
for this wretched man. He has betrayed the honour of the British left.'

Christian Wolmar, transport commentator

'Livingstone has done two incredibly significant things. Firstly, he introduced
the Congestion Charge in the face of considerable opposition. Secondly, he has
improved the bus service considerably. Uniquely to any major city, the number of
bus users is now greater than car users. In addition, he has created Transport
for London, which has been pretty effective. The problem with the tube is that
he has been lumbered with PPP, which is expensive and inefficient, but not of
his doing. He might be able to get something different with Metronet now under
his control.'

Will Alsop, architect

'I am supportive; he has taken on the building lobby to say that a denser city
is the way forward. The Congestion Charge has also helped the city centre and
left a legacy for whatever political party follows. His policies on creating
more affordable housing are right. Something has to be done and it's difficult
to tackle, but his heart is in the right place.'

Sian Berry, Green Mayoral candidate

'One minute Ken's introducing a policy I've campaigned on for years, bringing in
the Congestion Charge to clean up our cars and push urban 4x4s out of the city.
The next, he's planning a huge road bridge over the Thames or approving big
developments like King's Cross. Compared with his disappointing first term,
we've seen investment in tackling climate change steadily increase so that we
now have an extra £150m spent on green initiatives this year. However, his green
achievements are only impressive because they have been pushed through by Green
members (on the London Assembly).'

Anwar Akhtar, chief executive, CIDA (Cultural Industries Development Agency)

'Ken's been a great success: he gives leadership, gets things done and makes
things happen. Few politicians would have had the courage to bring in the
Congestion Charge first, rather than wait for a focus group to redesign it into
something ineffective. I don't believe London would have won the Olympics if
he'd not driven it so hard. Ken's delivered progressive change in social,
economic and cultural areas: prioritising public housing, public transport,
affordable childcare, supporting community-based policing and arts projects such
as Rich Mix in Bethnal Green and giving Trafalgar Square back to the public. His
response to the July 7 in 2005 bombings was that of a statesman and struck the
right note at the most difficult of times.'

Bob Crow, general secretary, RMT (National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport
Workers)

'Ken Livingstone quite rightly fought alongside us against the disastrous
privatisation of tube infrastructure. Yet, in the face of overwhelming public
opinion, the Mayor intends to privatise the East London Line when it reopens.
The new rail franchise has been further undermined by the crazy plan to remove
guards from the North and West London Lines in 2011, just in time for the
Olympics, and we'll fight that all the way.'

Tony Travers, economist

'Under Ken, London has enjoyed extensive development, optimism and success. He
has pursued a pro-growth policy and politics has not got in the way. It's a long
way from the Ken of County Hall. The Congestion Charge makes him look like a
brand leader in urban experience. That has been enhanced by getting the Olympics
and Crossrail, which he can also take credit for.'

Adam Wilkinson, SAVE British Heritage

'The Mayor's London Plan (a planning strategy, published in 2004] aims to
increase the population of London by the equivalent of a city the size of Leeds
by 2020. This means a massive increase in competition for land, driving up
prices and building heights; the towers under construction will massively alter
London's character. Markets, schools, theatres, Georgian terraces, all
convertible, are biting the dust to meet his targets.'

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                         Copyright 2007 Time Out Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                            December 7, 2007 Friday

Terrorist Fears Jail Attacks

BYLINE: Laura Caroe

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


A CONVICTED British al-Qaeda terrorist must stay in the jail where he was
attacked with boiling oil.

Eesa Barot, formerly known as Dhiren Barot, who masterminded a plot to blow up
US financial institutions and stage attacks in Britain, needed skin grafts after
boiling water and hot oil was poured on him at Durham Frankland's Prison.

In July, Barot spent five days in the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle
receiving treatment for burns, surrounded by armed police.

At the High Court as Barot fought to be moved to another jail, saying he had
"lost confidence" in the ability of the staff at the prison to protect him.
Barot, who was attacked three times in the same day but had to wait three days
to be taken to hospital, said he had a "profound fear" of fresh attacks.

Deputy High Court Judge Michael Supperstone said the attack was "brutal" but
ruled there was no evidence to support Barot's fears.

The Muslim convert pleaded guilty to conspiracy to murder in November last year
and is serving a minimum 30-year sentence.

Steven Powles, defending, said as Barot was a high risk, category AA prisoner,
his movements were supposed to be monitored.

Mr Powles said: "In July this year he was viciously attacked, not once but twice
by at least two assailants in the kitchen area of F wing while preparing his
evening meal."

Boiling water was poured on his head and back.  When Barot followed his attacker
to the cell area, he was punched in the face. He then returned to the kitchen
area and was trying to cool the burning when another prisoner came behind him
and threw hot oil on his head.

"It is curious that no prison officer was to hand when the attack took place,
either to prevent or witness it, despite his shouting and screaming during the
prolonged incident."

Despite prison nurses saying they believed Barot needed hospital assessment and
assistance, he was not taken to hospital for three days.

A doctor provided him with painkillers for his "extreme pain and agony". Barot's
injuries included extensive burns to his back, neck and arms, and he needed a
split skin graft four days after the incident.

Barot  was offered to move to E wing, which he refused as he feared his
attackers would still be able to reach him, or the vulnerable prisoners' unit
where he did not want to be associated with sex offenders held there.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            December 7, 2007 Friday

Attacked Terrorist Fails In Attempt To Move Jails

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 332 words


A CONVICTED British al-Qaeda activist has been told he must remain in a Durham
prison, despite being attacked with boiling water and then hot oil.

Eesa Barot, who was jailed for life for plotting atrocities on both sides of the
Atlantic, claimed to have "lost confidence" in the ability of the staff at
Frankland Prison to protect him and said he had "a profound fear" of fresh
attacks.

Deputy High Court Judge Michael Supperstone QC, sitting in London, said the
attack was brutal, but he ruled there was no objective evidence to support
Barot's fears, and his application to seek judicial review over the refusal to
move him was dismissed.

The Muslim convert, formerly known as Dhiren Barot, pleaded guilty to conspiracy
to murder in November last year and is serving a minimum 30-year sentence.
Steven Powles, appearing for Barot, said he was a high-risk, category AA
prisoner who had been held at Frankland since being transferred from Belmarsh
last December.

He said: "In July this year he was viciously attacked, not once but twice by at
least two assailants in the kitchen area of F wing while preparing his evening
meal."

In the first attack, boiling water was poured on his head and back. When he
followed his assailant to his cell area, the assailant punched him in the face
causing further injuries.

"He then returned to the kitchen area and was trying to cool the burning when
another prisoner came behind him and threw hot oil on to his head."

His serious injuries included extensive 10% burns to his back, neck and arms,
and he required a split skin graft four days after the incident. After being
held in the healthcare unit, he was offered a move to E wing or being placed in
Frankland's vulnerable prisoners unit (VPU), both of which he refused.

But the judge dismissed his case for judicial review as unarguable, saying both
the VPU and E wing offered a considerable degree of protection and it was not
unreasonable for the prison governor to expect Borat to move to one or the
other.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                      December 9, 2007 Sunday 10:47 PM BST

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK FIREFIGHTERS HONOURED

BYLINE: Lucinda Cameron, Scottish Press Association

LENGTH: 238 words


Firefighters who were first on the scene of the Glasgow airport terror attack
will be honoured for their bravery this week.

The three crews tackled a blazing jeep which rammed into the terminal building
on June 30.

The 15 firefighters, from Paisley and Renfrew Fire stations, will be presented
with the Chief Officers Commendation.

The award from Strathclyde Fire and Rescue recognises outstanding service and
bravery.

Brian Sweeney, Chief Officer of Strathclyde Fire and Rescue, will present them
with the award in a ceremony at Renfrew Fire Station on Tuesday evening.

Among those receiving the honour are Renfrew watch commander David McInness and
firefighters Kenny Breckenridge and Barry Drumbreck.

They told how they quickly realised the incident could be a terrorist attack,
and that there could be another device in the blazing car, which was allegedly
packed with gas canisters.

But they did not hesitate to act despite the fear that the canisters could
explode.

Mr McInness told the Daily Record: ``As soon as I saw the gas cylinders inside
it and the position it was in, I knew it was a possible terrorist attack.

``There were cars everywhere, people everywhere, there were dozens of police. It
was pandemonium but all that mattered was that there was a job to be done.''

Mr Breckenridge told the newspaper: ``I could see there were cylinders in the
back of the vehicle and the London attack the day before went through my mind.''

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 10, 2007 Monday

Security in Pakistan city tightened after terror attacks

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar, 9 December: The city police have beefed up security in the provincial
capital after rockets attacks and deadly suicide blast in Swat district to
thwart the nefarious designs of saboteurs and anti-state elements.

SSP [Senior Superintendent of Police] Operation Muhammad Tahir Khan told APP on
Sunday [9 December] that the city police have been put on high-alert and
patrolling in uniform as well as in plain clothes was intensified to keep a
close watch on the movement of suspicious elements.

All regional and city police officers have been directed to take extraordinary
precautionary and preventive measures to further tighten security at public
places likes hotels, railway stations, bus stops, markets, cinemas, mosques and
educational institutions, Mr Tahir said.

Police cops have been deployed at all important and sensitive points of the
capital besides police commandos to foil any subversive act before its
happening, he added.

The official said that round-the-clock police patrolling is also underway at
main shopping malls and other business centres to keep vigil on unscrupulous
elements.

The senior police official said SHOs [Station House Officers] have been directed
to increase patrolling in their respective areas besides asking transporters to
check luggage of passengers before journeys. Mr Tahir said that security cameras
have been installed at sensitive and public places for security purposes.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1454gmt
09 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 10, 2007, Monday

TERROR ATTACK HEROES HONOURED;
EXCLUSIVE BRAVERY AWARD FOR 15 FIREFIGHTERS

BYLINE: By Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words


FIFTEEN firefighters will be honoured tomorrow for their courage at the scene of
the Glasgow airport terror attack.

Crews from Paisley and Renfrew fire stations put their lives on the line after
fanatics rammed a Jeep packed with gas canisters into the doors of Terminal One.

They tell their stories for the first time today and reveal they didn't know
whether the canisters would explode or if there were any other bombs nearby.

The 15 heroes will be the first to receive the Chief Officer's Commendation, a
new award introduced by Strathclyde Fire and Rescue to recognise outstanding
service.

Fire chief Brian Sweeney will present the awards at Renfrew Fire Station.

And yesterday, as they prepared for the ceremony, the firefighters spoke about
the day terror came to Scottish soil.

Incident 15699072, logged at 3.13pm on June 30, was one of 145 callouts for
Strathclyde fire crews that day.

It was sandwiched in the area log between a rubbish fire and a suspected gas
leak.

And when David McInness, Blue watch commander at Renfrew, grabbed the top copy
of the call sheet, he expected it to be just another minor incident.

David said: "I thought it said, 'car on fire, Glasgow airport main terminal
building'.

"I thought, 'Here we go'. Nine times out of 10, we're called to the airport and
it's nothing really."

But seconds later, as he and his crew raced to the scene, David read the slip
again - and realised it said "car on fire INTO main terminal building".

Moments later, the radio told the crews a man was on fire at the scene.

David, 42, said: "My heart jumped. I knew this wasn't some false alarm.

"The adrenalin was pumping and I turned to the guys and told them, 'Looks like
we're working here'."

The day before, police in London had found two car bombs. Both contained petrol
cans, gas canisters and nails.

And as the fire crews saw smoke rising above the terminal, the prospect loomed
that they too were dealing with a terrorist attack.

Paisley were first on the scene. Renfrew arrived seconds later, to find the Jeep
that had rammed the main terminal building engulfed in flames.

David said: "As soon as I saw the gas cylinders inside it and the position it
was in, I knew it was a possible terrorist attack.

"There were cars everywhere, people everywhere, there were dozens of police. It
was pandemonium but all that mattered was that there was a job to be done."

As watch commander and senior officer, David had to take control until
ahigher-ranked officer arrived.

Paisley turned their hoses on the Jeep while Renfrew focused on the burning
canopy of the terminal. Firefighter Barry Drumbreck and his mates pushed the
flames westwards, back towards the Jeep.

Barry, 44, said: "We pulled the canopy and the false ceiling down.

"We had tackled worse fires, but the difference was that this had the potential
to be one of the worst.

"I looked at the gas canisters and I thought about the London attempt and the
prospect of a secondary device in the car."

As Barry and the others worked on, David was told there was a badly burned
casualty in the stairwell of the car park and went to check that the man was
getting treatment.

The casualty was bomber Kafeel Ahmed, who had 90 per cent burns.

David said: "He was lying on his front and looking to his left and his hands
were cuffed behind his back. Police were kneeling on top of him.

"He wasn't moving and looked dead. I asked, 'Is he alive?' and the police said,
'Oh, yes'.

"Regardless of what people do, we have to help them. So I made sure an ambulance
was on his way.

"To this day, I look at that stairwell and I remember that image."

The main priority for the crews was to make sure everyone was out of the
terminal, so David and a crew member went in to check the offices at the back of
the building. David said: "I walked through baggage reclaim, saw all the bags
lying about and thought, 'This could have been far, far worse. We could have
been here pulling people out.'"

Outside, the crews only had a bus shelter and their own vehicles to shield them
as they tackled the fire.

There was still the possibility of a second bomb in the nearby car park, so they
were told to pull back and leave fixed hoses to finish the job. It was after 9pm
before the Renfrew crew were relieved. And when they got home, have-a-go baggage
handler John Smeaton was all over the TV.

But the firefighters didn't mind seeing him get all the recognition.

David shrugged and said: "Good luck to him. Let him take all the glory that's
going. The public love a hero.

"We get paid to do a job. At the end of the day, this was a car fire to us." So
what did the crews think when they heard there was a device in the Jeep that
could have exploded?

David joked: "Was my insurance paid up? The wife would have got a new car. I
don't know, anything to see the funny side of it.

"Firefighters laugh about that kind of thing, that's how we deal with it."

Kafeel Ahmed died in hospital five weeks after the attack. His alleged
accomplice, Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 28, and another doctor have been
charged with plotting the Glasgow attack and the two failed London bombings.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFERNO: Firefighters tackle blazing Jeep
COURAGE UNDER FIRE: TV footage of the Jeep on fire at Glasgow airport earlier
this year. Firefighters including David McInness, left, and Barry Drumbreck are
to be honoured for their bravery in dealing with the day terrorists hit Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday

Palestinian president condemns terror attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 118 words


Text of report in English by Palestinian news agency Wafa website

["President Abbas Discusses ME Developments with Algerian President" - WAFA
Headline]

RAMALLAH, December 11, 2007 (WAFA) -President Mahmud Abbas on Tuesday [11
December] discussed with the Algerian President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, over a
phone call, the latest political developments in the region.

They also discussed the results of the US-hosted peace conference which led to
the re-launching of peace talks between the Palestinians and the Israelis.

President Abbas also condemned today's terrorist explosions in Algeria which
left tens of people killed and wounded.

Source: Palestinian news agency Wafa website, Gaza, in English 1620 gmt 11 Dec
07

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday

Jordanian king condemns "terrorist" attacks against Turkey

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 11 December: King Abdallah II of Jordan condemned [on] Tuesday [11
December] every type of terrorism, particularly the attacks of the terrorist
organization PKK [Kurdistan Workers' Party] against Turkey.

"We discussed regional security threats, particularly terrorism," the Jordanian
king told a joint press conference with Turkish President Abdullah Gul at the
Cankaya presidential palace in Ankara.

King Abdallah said Turkey and Jordan have decided to set up a political
consultation mechanism to improve their relations, cooperation and dialogue.

"Turkey has an esteemed place in the Islam world and is an important power in
its region," the king told.

On Israeli-Palestinian dispute, King Abdallah said Annapolis conference that
took place in the USA in November was very important for establishment of a
Palestinian state till the end of 2008.

The Jordanian king said concerned parties should fulfil their responsibilities
to solve the dispute and underlined importance of stopping construction of
Jewish settlements in East Jerusalem and West Bank.

King Abdallah said he thinks Arab peace initiative is required for settlement of
Arab-Israeli controversy and sees Syrian-Israeli rapprochement as positive.

"Lebanon's territorial integrity and political unity are important for the
region. We also support Iraq's territorial integrity and political unity," he
told.

At the end of the press conference, King Abdallah invited President Gul to visit
his country soon.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1444 gmt 11 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday

Ukraine condemns terrorist attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 125 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 12 December: Ukraine strongly condemns terrorist attacks in the Algerian
capital, in particular the assault on the UN headquarters, which killed dozens
of people.

"These terrorist attacks are barbaric and cannot be justified. Ukraine, together
with the global community, will continue to struggle for eliminating
international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," a statement by the
press service of the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry reads.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry hopes that those who ordered, organized and
actually committed the crime will be found and punished.

[Passage omitted: background on the attack]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1027 gmt 12 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 12 December: Turkey strongly condemned terrorist attacks that took place
in Algeria on Tuesday [11 December], Foreign Ministry said.

A statement issued by the ministry said Turkey condemned terrorist attacks in
front of Constitutional Council and UN buildings in Algeria which killed several
people, including UN personnel and injured others on Tuesday.

Turkey attaches great importance to effective international cooperation in fight
against terrorism, the statement added.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1508 gmt 12 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday

Bulgaria condemns terrorist attacks in Algeria, Lebanon

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian national news agency BTA website,

Sofia, 12 December: Bulgaria condemns the terrorist attacks on Tuesday [11
December] and Wednesday in the capital cities of Algeria and Lebanon, which
claimed many lives and caused many injuries, says a statement by the Foreign
Ministry spokesman on Wednesday.

These criminal acts constitute gross infringement of the right to living of
peaceful citizens, of the pillars of statehood and international rule of law,
says the statement.

In this difficult time the Bulgarian state and people express their sympathy to
the relatives of the deceased and injured, says the statement.

Bulgaria will continue its active participation in the efforts of the entire
international community to counteract terrorism and crime. This country
reiterates its firm support for the strive of the democratic societies towards
stability, security and prosperity.

Foreign Minister Ivaylo Kalfin cabled his condolences to UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon on the terrorist attack in Algeria which killed a number of UN
staff.

The tragic event showed once again that terrorism is a global threat, for all
countries and peoples, for the United Nations Organization, Kalfin said in the
cable. "Our condemnation of terrorist attacks is categorical and unequivocal,
and our message to those seeking to impose their views using the death of
innocent people is clear: terror is a crime and will in no circumstances
succeed," Kalfin said.

Source: BTA website, Sofia, in English 1455 gmt 12 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday

Italian foreign minister condemns Algeria terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper La
Repubblica, on 12 December

[Unattributed report: "D'Alema: Rice Voiced Her Appreciation Over Kosovo and the
Vicenza Base"]

Washington - US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice voiced her "appreciation"
for Italy's initiative on Kosovo, [Italian] Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema
reported at the end of his talks with Ms. Rice at the Department of State
yesterday. "The Secretary of State wanted to be informed regarding the
discussions currently under way over Kosovo," D'Alema said. He went on: "I
reiterated our viewpoint to her regarding the need for a governed process and
for a European initiative, in order to set the European mission up in Kosovo as
soon as possible, and at the same time in order to ensure that there is a
package in favour of Serbia." Where the Balkans issue is concerned, the Italians
noted "the United States' awareness that it is above all a European matter, and
there is appreciation for the role that Italy is playing."

Also the issue of the US base in Vicenza was addressed in the course of the
talks in Washington. The foreign minister said that he is aware that there are
protests, but he added that, where the base is concerned, "all the decisions
have been made; the matter has been resolved. Indeed, the United States
expressed its gratitude for the fact that the Italian Government has offered its
amenability and made the decisions that it had to make."

Later on, discussing the terrorist attacks in Algeria, D'Alema called them "a
cowardly and criminal act."

Source: La Repubblica, Rome, in Italian 12 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Airport terror attack firefighters honoured

BYLINE: MARTIN WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 329 words


FIREFIGHTERS who were first on the scene of the Glasgow Airport terror attack
were honoured for their bravery last night and told they saved the terminal
building from serious damage.

The 15 firefighters from three Paisley and Renfrew crews managed to extinguish
the fire caused by a blazing Jeep which rammed into the terminal building on
June 30.

All were presented with the Chief Officer 's Commendation in recognition of
their outstanding service and bravery.

Ten were given their certificates at a ceremony in front of nearly 200
colleagues, family and friends at Renfrew Fire Station last night. The other
five received their awards privately.

Brian Sweeney, chief officer of Strathclyde Fire and Rescue, who presented the
commendations to men who "exemplified the finest traditions of the force" said
their actions "showed off Scotland at its best".

The citation read at the ceremony stated: "At no time did any firefighter flinch
or hold back in their operational duties. It was their decisive actions which
without doubt saved the terminal building from severe fire damage."

The 15 honoured were Peter Carroll, Scott Cockburn, Barry Dumbreck, Derek
Gilmour, George Holland, Nairn Lochhead, David McInnes, Michael McKeary, Robert
Sloan, Raymond Young, Stephen Rowley, Richard Honer, Peter Paterson, Kenneth
Breckenridge and Crawford McKee.

Crew Commander Peter Carroll said: "It is nice to be recognised and a little bit
embarrassing because there were ordinary members of the public who put
themselves in danger, whereas we are trained to deal with emergency situations.
I didn't have time to focus on whether there was a risk to my life on the day in
question.

"There was in the back of my mind the potential for the cylinders to explode and
the possibility of further devices being present when we were dealing with the
incident.

"But the crews remained focused on the job at hand, which was to extinguish the
fire and ensure no members of the public were trapped in side."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AWARDS: The Chief Officer's Commendations were given to, back row from
left, Robert Sloan, Michael McKeary, David McInnes, Peter Carroll and Barry
Dumbreck. Front row, from left, Raymond Young, Nairn Lochhead, George Holland,
Derek Gilmour and Scott Cockburn. Picture: David Cheskin/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               December 12, 2007

United Nations: Algeria: Secretary-General Condemns Terrorist Attacks In
Strongestpossible Terms

LENGTH: 171 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 12, 2007-United Nations: Algeria: Secretary-General
Condemns Terrorist Attacks In Strongestpossible Terms ©1994-2007 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General condemns in the strongest possible terms the terrorist
attacks in Algiers earlier today. The two blasts reportedly killed at least 45
people, including a number of United Nations staff members.

The blasts destroyed the offices of the United Nations Development Programme and
severely damaged the offices of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees.

The United Nations is currently working closely with local authorities to
account for United Nations personnel who may be missing.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               December 12, 2007

United Nations: Security Council Strongly Condemns Today's Terrorist Attack In
Algiers; Reiterates Determination to Combat All Forms of Terrorism, Underlines
Need to Bring Perpetrators, Organizers, Financiers, Sponsors to Justice

LENGTH: 641 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 12, 2007-United Nations: Security Council Strongly
Condemns Today's Terrorist Attack In Algiers; Reiterates Determination to Combat
All Forms of Terrorism, Underlines Need to Bring Perpetrators, Organizers,
Financiers, Sponsors to Justice ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The Security Council this afternoon condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attacks that occurred in Algiers earlier today near the Supreme Court
and United Nations offices, causing numerous deaths and injuries.

Through a statement read by its President for the month, Marcello Spatafora (
Italy), the Council expressed its deep sympathy and condolences to the victims
of that heinous terrorist act and their families, to the people and Government
of Algeria, and to United Nations staff and their families.

The Council reiterated its determination to combat all forms of terrorism, and
underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors
of today's reprehensible act to justice. It urged all States, in accordance with
their obligations under international law and resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1624
(2005), to cooperate actively with the Algerian authorities.

The 15-member body reaffirmed that any acts of terrorism were criminal and
unjustifiable, as well as the need to combat, by all means, threats to
international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. At the same time, it
reminded States that any measures taken to combat terrorism must comply with all
their international law obligations, particularly international human rights,
refugee and humanitarian law.

The meeting began at 12:40 p.m. and ended at 12:44 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of the presidential statement, to be issued as S/PRST/2007/45,
reads, as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks that
occurred in Algiers, on 11 December 2007, near the Supreme Court and the UN
offices, causing numerous deaths and injuries, and expresses its deep sympathy
and condolences to the victims of this heinous act of terrorism and their
families, and to the people and the Government of Algeria. The Security Council
expresses its deep sympathy and condolences to the UN staff, and their families,
who were among the victims in one of these attacks, and to the Secretary
General.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to justice, and
urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and resolution 1373 (2001) and consistent with resolution 1624 (2005), to
cooperate actively with the Algerian authorities in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The Council reminds States that
they must ensure that any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all
their obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                    December 12, 2007 Wednesday 9:14 AM BST

FORCE TO GET £1M FOR TERROR ATTACK POLICING

BYLINE: Katrine Bussey, Political Reporter, Scottish Press Association

LENGTH: 244 words


Police chiefs are to get an extra £1 million to help with the costs of dealing
with the terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport, justice secretary Kenny MacAskill
announced today.

Strathclyde Police will receive the additional money following the incident this
summer, when a flaming jeep was driven into the terminal building.

Mr MacAskill said the force had been in the frontline of the response to the
attack, and its officers had shown ``remarkable resilience and
professionalism''.

The money is being given to the police after a request was made for extra funds
to help with the costs involved, including overtime for officers and calling in
assistance from other forces.

Mr MacAskill said: ``June's terrorist attack on Glasgow airport was an attack on
all the people of Scotland. The response to it from members of the emergency
services and the general public helped avert a major disaster.

``At the time, this government paid tribute to the dedication and
professionalism of all the emergency services including the Strathclyde force
and its role in protecting the public.

``The force was in the frontline in responding to this major incident and its
officers showed remarkable resilience and professionalism in dealing with this
unprecedented event in Scotland's history.

``In recognition of the impact that this major policing operation had on the
force, I have agreed to provide them with an extra £1 million as a contribution
towards the additional costs incurred.''

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               December 13, 2007

United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns Terrorist Attack In Lebanon, Calls On
Political Leaders To Exert Every Possible Effort To Resolve Differences

LENGTH: 259 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 13, 2007-United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns
Terrorist Attack In Lebanon, Calls On Political Leaders To Exert Every Possible
Effort To Resolve Differences ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General was outraged by yet another terrorist attack in Lebanon
that killed General Franois el-Hajj of the Lebanese Armed Forces and at least
one of his bodyguards. The Secretary-General extends his sincere condolences to
the families of those killed, the Lebanese Armed Forces and the Government of
Lebanon.

The Secretary-General strongly condemns this act of violence and terror on the
Lebanese Armed Forces, a symbol of Lebanon's sovereignty. He reiterates his
position that this and previous attacks aimed at undermining Lebanon's
sovereignty are unacceptable. It is imperative that the perpetrators of this
heinous crime are brought to justice.

The Secretary-General calls on the Lebanese for calm and restraint at this
critical juncture in their history. Their political leaders must exert every
possible effort to resolve differences and arrive at a solution for an immediate
presidential election, without conditionality, in accordance with constitutional
rules.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               December 13, 2007

United Nations: Algiers Terrorist Attack Abject, Cowardly Strike Against People
Serving Humanity's Highest Ideals, Says Secretary-General

LENGTH: 284 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 13, 2007-United Nations: Algiers Terrorist Attack Abject,
Cowardly Strike Against People Serving Humanity's Highest Ideals, Says
Secretary-General ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following is the statement by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as delivered by
him in Bali (12 December):

Words cannot express my sense of shock, outrage and anger at the terrorist
attack on the United Nations in Algiers yesterday. This was an abject and
cowardly strike against civilian officials serving humanity's highest ideals
under the United Nations banner. It was base, indecent and unjustifiable by any
standards.

We do not yet have an accurate count of the many casualties, both among United
Nations staff and the local population. But our hearts go out to the victims.
Their sacrifice cannot and shall not be forgotten. The perpetrators of these
crimes will not escape the strongest possible condemnation and ultimate
punishment by the international community.

I have instructed the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP)
Administrator and senior officials from the Department of Safety and Security to
proceed to Algiers immediately. We will take every possible measure to aid those
injured in the attack and their families. The security of United Nations staff
is paramount. We will take every measure to ensure their safety, in Algeria and
elsewhere, beginning with an immediate review of our security precautions and
policies.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               December 13, 2007

United Nations: Security Council Condemns In Strongest Terms Lebanon Terrorist
Attack That Killed Lebanese Armed Forces General Franois El-Hajj; Presidential
Statement Reiterates Condemnation of Targeted Assassination, Demands End to
Violence Aimed at Representatives of Lebanese People, Institutions

LENGTH: 611 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 13, 2007-United Nations: Security Council Condemns In
Strongest Terms Lebanon Terrorist Attack That Killed Lebanese Armed Forces
General Franois El-Hajj; Presidential Statement Reiterates Condemnation of
Targeted Assassination, Demands End to Violence Aimed at Representatives of
Lebanese People, Institutions ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Demanding an immediate end to intimidation and violence directed towards the
representatives of the Lebanese people and institutions, the Security Council
today condemned in the strongest terms today's terrorist attack in Baabda,
Lebanon, which killed two persons, including General Franois el-Hajj of the
Lebanese Armed Forces.

In a statement read out by December Council President Marcello Spatafora of
Italy, the Council called the attack an attempt to destabilize the Lebanese
Armed Forces and reiterated its condemnation of all targeted assassinations of
Lebanese leaders.

The Council underlined that no attempt to destabilize Lebanon should prevent the
timely holding of free and fair presidential elections without any foreign
interference and with full respect for democratic institutions.

Recalling its support for the rapid establishment of the Special Tribunal for
Lebanon, the Council stressed that it was of the highest importance that the
perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of today's heinous crime be brought to
justice.

The meeting started at 7 p.m. and adjourned at 7:05 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2007/47 reads as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack in
Baabda on 12 December 2007 which killed General Franois el-Hajj of the Lebanese
Armed Forces, and killed and injured several other persons.

"It expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the
victims, to the Lebanese Armed Forces, and to the Government of Lebanon.

"The Security Council expresses its strong condemnation of this attempt to
destabilize Lebanese institutions, in this particular case the Lebanese Armed
Forces.

"The Security Council reiterates its condemnation of all targeted assassinations
of Lebanese leaders, particularly since October 2004, and demands an immediate
end to the use of intimidation and violence against the representatives of the
Lebanese people and institutions.

"It stresses that it is of the highest importance that the perpetrators,
organizers and sponsors of this heinous crime are brought to justice and
expresses its determination to support the efforts and commitment of the
Government of Lebanon to this end.

"The Security Council recalls its support for the Secretary-General's efforts
for the establishment of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon in a timely manner, as
a means to put an end to impunity in Lebanon and deter further assassinations in
Lebanon.

"It underlines that no attempt to destabilize Lebanon should prevent the
holding, without delay, of a free and fair presidential election in conformity
with Lebanese constitutional rules, without any foreign interference or
influence, and with full respect for democratic institutions.

"The Security Council emphasizes the importance of the unity of all the Lebanese
people. It also reiterates its full support for all ongoing efforts in Lebanon
to combat terrorism, solidify democratic institutions, engage in political
dialogue, and pursue national reconciliation."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                               December 13, 2007

Gang's terror attack on OAPs at home

BYLINE: Sarah Marshall

LENGTH: 276 words


A TERRIFIED Stafford pensioner was attacked with a screwdriver by a gang of
thugs who burst into his home and stole his wallet. The 81-year-old victim and
his 75-year-old wife were threatened by three yobs who entered their Moss Pit
home through an unlocked back door on Saturday morning. One of the gang waved a
screwdriver around and the pensioner suffered minor injuries to his hand as he
tried to fend off the robber.

The attackers then took his wallet and ran off.  The victim was treated at
Stafford's Staffordshire General Hospital, following the ordeal around 9.45am.
His wife was left shaken but uninjured. Stafford police are now urging any
witnesses or members of the public to get in touch. Detective Constable Sean
Regan, from Chase division, said: "It is believed that the men were not wearing
any coats and the two occupants reported that they were dry. Given the heavy
rain at the time of the offence, we believe the men were probably in a vehicle
that was nearby." DC Regan added he would urge all residents to follow basic
crime prevention advice, including keeping windows and doors locked. All three
thugs are described as white, about 5ft 11ins and aged 20. One had short fair
hair and a fresh complexion and appearance. He wore a fitted jersey-type brown
top with some form of writing across the chest. The second man had a fresh
looking complexion with darker hair, while the third had black spiky hair cut
short and had a line of stubble or a beard down his jaw line.  Anyone with
information or who may have seen the men in the area at the time, is asked to
contact DC Regan on 08453 302010 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday

Iran kills 12 "ringleaders" suspected of planning "major terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV news channel on 13 December

[Presenter] Twelve ringleaders were killed in an operation carried out by police
and security forces in Iranshahr [Sistan va Baluchestan Province] this morning.
The police chief in Sistan va Baluchestan Province, Brig-Gen Ghaffari,
elaborates on the details of the operation.

[Ghaffari  live on phone] In the name of God. The armed bandits affiliated to
the terrorist Jondollah group were present in the south of Sistan va Baluchestan
Province to carry out terrorist operations. Fortunately, the Fath Base police
forces and security forces, in complete harmony, managed to kill or arrest all
the members of the group this morning.

The number of those dead and arrested is 18.

Praise to God, in this successful operation, the militants of Islam [police
forces] discovered a huge amount of ammunition, weapons, detonators,
communication tools and very important internal documents of the group.

The documents along with the clear confessions of the arrested people indicate
that the group was intending to carry out a major terrorist attack in the
southern parts of province with the help of foreigners.

The main objective of the terrorist operation was to create discord among ethnic
groups and religious minorities.

If you have any other questions, I'm here to answer.

[Presenter] Many thank for your time.

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0939 gmt 13
Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           December 14, 2007, Friday
                                 WMail Edition

Anti-terror plans come under attack from MPs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


The Government's anti-terror plans came under sustained attack from MPs and
peers today. Two Parliamentary committees criticised Home Secretary Jacqui
Smith's proposal to extend the time limit on detaining terror suspects from 28
to 42 days.

The Joint Committee on Human Rights (JCHR) demanded that the measures should be
withdrawn.

Yesterday the Commons' Home Affairs Select Committee said neither police nor the
Government had proved the case for an extension.

Ms Smith's proposals would involve the House of Commons and the House of Lords
approving a temporary extension to 42 days.

But the JCHR said this would be "virtually useless as a safeguard" and would
also run the risk of seriously prejudicing any future criminal trials of
suspects being questioned at the time.

The report said the Crown Prosecution Service was not calling for more time - a
fact which was "devastating" to Ms Smith's argument, the document said.

Members of the Home Affairs Select Committee said the Muslim community could
come to regard the rules as a form of internment if ministers failed to prove
why a longer period is required.

The all-party committee said the Government should begin urgent discussions to
reform existing powers which could bring about a temporary extension of limits.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 14, 2007

Anti-terror plans are attacked by MPs and peers

LENGTH: 407 words


THE Government's controversial anti-terror plans came under sustained attack
yesterday from MPs and peers.

Two separate Parliamentary committees criticised Home Secretary Jacqui Smith's
proposal to extend the time limit on detaining terror suspects from 28 to 42
days.

The Joint Committee on Human Rights (JCHR) demanded that the measures should be
withdrawn.

On Wednesday, the Commons' Home Affairs Select Committee said neither police nor
the Government had proved the case for an extension.

Ms Smith's proposals would involve the House of Commons and the House of Lords
approving a temporary extension to 42 days.

But the JCHR said this would be "virtually useless as a safeguard" and would
also run the risk of seriously prejudicing any future criminal trials of
suspects being questioned at the time.

JCHR chairman Andrew Dismore said: "If the Government is genuinely concerned to
build a national consensus on counter-terrorism policy, it should drop this
ill-conceived proposal and work with us and others to identify better ways of
ensuring terrorism suspects are successfully prosecuted.

"We can see no reason why the proposal to extend the limit for pre-charge
detention to 42 days should be brought before Parliament at this time."

Members of the Home Affairs Select Committee said the Muslim community could
come to regard the rules as a form of internment if Ministers failed to prove
why a longer period is required.

It could be counter-productive to raise the maximum time for which police can
hold and question suspects, the report said.

Alternative changes to the law could make it easier to bring prosecutions and
avoid the need to raise the limit, it added.

For example, the committee said it was "ridiculous" that Britain still bars the
use of evidence from telephone taps and other bugs - known as "intercept"
evidence.

The all-party committee said the Government should begin urgent discussions to
reform existing powers - under the Civil Contingencies Act - which could bring
about a temporary extension of pre-charge limits.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "The Home Secretary should realise that
all the evidence so far has undermined, not supported the case for extension.

"She should now focus her efforts on implementing practical measures, to get the
best use of the current 28-day period - like our proposals for post-charge
interview, the use of intercept evidence and enhanced sentences for withholding
encryption keys."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday

Army held talks with terrorists to end attacks

BYLINE: Thomas Harding Defence Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 476 words


BRITISH officials engaged directly with terrorists in Basra in order to bring
about the end of attacks on the Army, senior Foreign Office officials said
yesterday.

Elements within the British military and security services entered into talks
with Shia insurgents responsible for most of the 173 British deaths in the
country, so that southern Iraq could find peace, it was disclosed.

The talks, similar to those between M16, M15 and the IRA, will result in
official control of Basra province being handed over to Iraqi authorities
tomorrow for the first time since the 2003 invasion.

There is optimism that the oil-rich province, which has some of the biggest
energy reserves in the world, will become as affluent as Dubai within a decade.

"It is the case that we did talk to rogue militias as part of our strategy of
political engagement and reconciliation,'' a Whitehall official said yesterday.
"They have an interest in the future of Iraq and if we refused to engage with
them it would not be in Basra's best interests or Iraq's.''

He added that the talks were encouraged by both American commanders and the
Iraqi government.

The comments come two days after Gordon Brown and other officials denied any
dialogue had been opened with the Taliban in Afghanistan.

About two weeks before soldiers left the last remaining barracks in Basra city
in early September a deal was brokered with the local militias, known as the JAM
(Jamaih al Islamiah), to cease offensive operations in return for a British
withdrawal.

With more than 80 per cent of the violence in Basra directed toward the British
their absence from the city streets has led to relative calm, although women are
still being murdered for not wearing veils.

At the same time as the British withdrawal the Iraqi security forces have been
capable and confident enough to deal with flare-ups from the militias, Foreign
Office sources said. In the past four years, the British Army has trained up two
divisions of the Iraqi army, totalling more than 20,000 troops. About 15,000
Iraqi police, who have a reputation for corruption, have also been trained.

Tomorrow, David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, will take part in a ceremony
with the Basra governor Wahili, formerly seen as a corrupt figure, and the
respected head of the Iraq army in Basra, Gen Mohan.

Meanwhile, a majority of people in Basra believe that the presence of British
troops has had a negative effect, according to an opinion poll yesterday.

An ORB poll for BBC2's Newsnight found that 86 per cent thought the overall
effect of their presence since the invasion in 2003 had been negative. Only two
per cent thought it had been positive.

More than half, 56 per cent, felt the British presence had actually increased
the level of militia violence, while 14 per cent thought it had made no
difference and only three per cent thought it had reduced.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Pupils in gun attack terror

BYLINE: by NEIL HYDE

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 213 words


TERRIFIED pupils at two schools were locked in for more than an hour yesterday
as police mounted a search for a gunman.

Armed police guarded the area and a helicopter hovered above as teachers and
children huddled inside the buildings.

The drama began after a teenage gunman pulled a weapon on police officers near a
cemetery.

The shocked constables raised the alarm as the gunman, described as black with a
short Afro-style hair cut, fled the cemetery in Didcot, Oxfordshire.

It was then teachers at St Birinus School and nearby Willowbank Primary School
were ordered to lock their doors.

The youngsters were allowed home only when it was believed the gunman had left
the area.

Chief Superintendent Paul Sullivan, who is leading the hunt for the man, said:
"I wish to advise members of the public that if they see this person, under no
circumstances should they approach him."

Police described the suspect as black, 5ft 9in, aged in his late teens or early
20s.

He was wearing jeans, trainers and a black Puffa-style jacket.

A spokesman for 1,200pupil St Birinus School said: "At about 2pm, Thames Valley
Police contacted us and said there was an incident in the area and that, for the
children's safety, could we lock all external doors and keep the pupils in until
we got the all-clear."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Pupils in gun attack terror

BYLINE: by NEIL HYDE

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 213 words


TERRIFIED pupils at two schools were locked in for more than an hour yesterday
as police mounted a search for a gunman.

Armed police guarded the area and a helicopter hovered above as teachers and
children huddled inside the buildings.

The drama began after a teenage gunman pulled a weapon on police officers near a
cemetery.

The shocked constables raised the alarm as the gunman, described as black with a
short Afro-style hair cut, fled the cemetery in Didcot, Oxfordshire.

It was then teachers at St Birinus School and nearby Willowbank Primary School
were ordered to lock their doors.

The youngsters were allowed home only when it was believed the gunman had left
the area.

Chief Superintendent Paul Sullivan, who is leading the hunt for the man, said:
"I wish to advise members of the public that if they see this person, under no
circumstances should they approach him."

Police described the suspect as black, 5ft 9in, aged in his late teens or early
20s.

He was wearing jeans, trainers and a black Puffa-style jacket.

A spokesman for 1,200pupil St Birinus School said: "At about 2pm, Thames Valley
Police contacted us and said there was an incident in the area and that, for the
children's safety, could we lock all external doors and keep the pupils in until
we got the all-clear."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday

Report wants flooding on same footing as a terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 445 words


Britain's response to a devastating summer flood was criticised yesterday by a
study which called for flood planning to be elevated to the status of combating
terrorist attacks or a flu pandemic.

The country was not as well prepared as it should have been to deal with the
torrential downpours in June and July which caused billions of pounds  of damage
and claimed a number of lives, an interim study concluded.

Sir Michael Pitt led the report which has made 15 urgent recommendations and 72
other proposals to prepare Britain to cope better with similar natural
disasters.

He said: "I want to raise up the priority and importance of flood-risk
management nationally and locally. I think we should put this on a par with
things like terrorism risk or influenza pandemic where we already have national
frameworks in place to deal with these emergencies."

The report called for better weather forecasting, local authorities to become
more involved in flood-risk management, emergency services to be better prepared
and for buildings built in flood-risk areas to be flood resilient.

It also urged the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs to develop
a national flood emergency framework.

The public should also take action by making up a "flood kit" of items such as
insurance policies, torches, a radio, first-aid kit and blankets.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown has promised to increase funding for flood
prevention from £600million to £800million, but not until 2010-11.

Paul Bettison, chairman of the local government association's environment board,
called for the funds to be made available sooner.

Environment Secretary Hilary Benn said: "The government agrees with all of the
urgent recommendations and will work with all organisations involved in taking
them forward as quickly as possible."

Shadow floods minister Anne McIntosh said the floods were an example of the
"systemic failure at the heart of government".

Liberal Democrat environment spokesman Chris Huhne said: "The government must
now give flooding and the impact of climate change the priority it deserves, or
we will pay a horrible price for our lack of preparation."

Speaking later at a news conference in Hull, Sir Michael said he was surprised
that many people affected by the summer floods were not properly insured and
that many who lived on flood-risk areas had not protected their homes from
flooding, but said it was up to organisations to educate people.

Defra said that, along with other departments, it was already taking action to
address a number of the key issues raised in the report.

A three-month consultation period will begin in January and new evidence will be
part of the final report.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday

Russia's Dagestan discusses measures to prevent terror attacks on transport

LENGTH: 661 words


Excerpt from report by Russian RGVK Dagestan TV, funded by the Republic of
Dagestan government, on 18 December

[Presenter] [Dagestani] prime minister Shamil Zaynalov today chaired a joint
meeting of the republic's antiterror commission and the operations headquarters
[as heard]. They discussed measures to prevent terrorist attacks on transport.
The reason for the meeting of the security agencies was the recent blasts at
passenger buses in Stavropol and in the Republic of Kabarda-Balkaria. My
colleagues will report the details.

[Correspondent] The first speaker at the meeting was the secretary of the
republican security council, Datsi Gadzhiyev, who reported on the work done in
2007. The security council head noted the need for an immediate response to the
developments in the republic. Preventive measures taken by the council have had
a positive impact on the final outcome of the work. For instance, a number of
terrorist attacks against both high-ranking officials and members of
law-enforcement agencies were prevented this year. However, it is alarming that
terrorists have been recently targeting civil facilities and infrastructure.
There is also a threat of terror attacks during the Christmas and New Year
holidays.

[Gadzhiyev, not captioned, addressing the meeting] Of course, preventive
measures have had a positive impact on the final results of the fight against
terror threat in the republic. Only one case classified under Article 205 [of
the Criminal Code] on terrorism was recorded in the republic in the first 11
months of 2007. For comparison, 16 terrorist attacks were committed during the
same period last year. Five subversive-terrorist attacks plotted by members of
the bandit underground were foiled at an early stage due to rapid measures.

[Correspondent] The chief of the Federal Security Service directorate [in
Dagestan], Vyacheslav Shanshin, believes that the situation on transport in the
republic is still alarming. Not all transport organizations comply with the
requirements on passenger transport. In view of this, Shanshin suggested that a
database should be created to record ticket information. Spontaneous car parks
do not meet the requirements either and could become the target of terrorists.
The targets of terror attacks could be vehicles, as well as industrial and
energy facilities.

[Shanshin, not captioned, addressing the meeting] The security of especially
important facilities is ensured as part of the general fight against religious
and political extremism. Immediate active measures with the use of significant
resources are taken jointly with the forces of the Interior Ministry in response
to all alarms, including preliminary ones, about possible terror threats. As you
know, the same kind of work has been under way for the past four days in
Untsukulskiy District. All such reports are checked and given an appropriate
assessment.

[Correspondent] The republic's Interior Minister Adilgerey Magomedtagirov noted
shortcomings in the work of many heads of transport organizations. The railway
station square in Makhachkala is still a real headache. A large number of
vehicles gather there all the time. In case of an emergency, there will be no
access to the railway station square.

[Passage omitted: Magomedtagirov says police patrol cannot resolve the problem
on the square]

[Correspondent] Security on transport is still a topical issue, the chairman of
the government concluded. Summarizing the results, Shamil Zaynalov pointed to
concrete shortcomings in the work of the heads of transport organizations.

[Passage omitted: repetition]

The chairman of the government also noted lack of work in the field of car
parking at the capital's airport and squares near railway stations in
Makhachkala, Khasavyurt, Derbent and Kizilyurt. We should follow the example of
large Russian cities where this problem has already been resolved, Shamil
Zaynalov said.

Source: RGVK TV, Makhachkala, in Russian 1630 gmt 18 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday

German officials warn of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report by right-of-centre German newspaper Die Welt website on 17
December

[dpa report: "Government Sees Danger of Attacks in Afghanistan, Germany]

Berlin - The Federal Government expects more attacks on the Bundeswehr in
Afghanistan and also considers possible suicide attacks in Germany. Although
there are no concrete indications for that, Islamists threaten in video messages
with such attacks also in Germany, said the state secretary in the Interior
Minister, August Hanning. There are two to four attacks per month on Bundeswehr
installations in Afghanistan. "I fear we will have to continue expecting these
numbers. There we are also part of the target spectrum."

CSU [Christian Social Union] chief Huber said at a congress of his party in
Munich that Germany will still be needed in Afghanistan "for many years." He
called for an active role by Germany in the world's crisis regions. "No nation
can expect protection if it is not willing to also grant protection."

The security policy spokesman of the Greens, Winfried Nachtwei, considers it
possible, to a limited extent, that Germany in August 2008 might assume the
successor role of Norway in deployment of a rapid response force. However, he
limited the deployment to the region of German responsibility in the North of
the country, as designated by the Bundestag mandate. High-ranking military
officers doubt that the deployment of such combat troops would be covered by the
Bundeswehr mandate. The mandate for participation in the International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) concerns primarily protecting reconstruction. The
Afghanistan reporter of the European Parliament, Andre Brie of The Left party,
criticized the "sluggish reconstruction" of police and army at the Hindu Kush.

Source: Die Welt website, Berlin, in German 17 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Irish terrorists 'plan wave of attacks'

BYLINE: By Matt Drake IN LONDON and Patrick Griffin IN BELFAST

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 2

LENGTH: 403  words


DISSIDENT Irish republicans are preparing a wave of terror attacks in the run-up
to the New Year, security services believe.

Splinter cells determined to destroy the peace process are reported to have
finalised plans for a random bombing campaign as they step up attempts to
disrupt the "normalisation" inside the province.

Last night a security forces source confirmed they had received intelligence
containing a chilling reference to a "big bang" before the end of the year.

The threat is considered serious and security teams have been alerted in all
major towns.

It comes as tensions mount over the acquittal of Sean Hoey, 38 - the only
suspect to be tried for for the murder of 29 people in the 1998 Omagh bombing.

Hoey, from South Armagh, was cheered by his supporters as Mr Justice Weir
cleared him of all 58 charges, including 29 of murder, after ruling there were
doubts over the DNA evidence that was essential to the prosecution.

Hoey has now threatened to sue the father of one of the victims after his
lawyers studied remarks made by Victor Barker, whose 12-year-old son was killed
by the blast. The Omagh atrocity - the worst single act of terrorism during the
Troubles - has long been the cause of bitterness between rival factions.

Last month the Independent Monitoring Commission, which reports on terrorist
activity in Northern Ireland, revealed that dissident republicans were
responsible for a pipe bomb attack on a police station in Strabane, Co Tyrone.

The Commission described the Continuity IRA as "active, dangerous and committed"
and said it was responsible for at least two paramilitary murders in Northern
Ireland this year.

The Commission also said in its report that 400lb of homemade explosives found
by police in Craigavon, Co Armagh, last August belonged to the group.

One police source said last night:

"The threat is being taken seriously. There has been talk of them aiming for a
'big bang' before the New Year. Nobody wants to go back to those days."

The Real IRA also continues to pose a threat to police officers, according to
the Commission, which claimed it was responsible for a shooting last April.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that the Hoey trial would prove to be a landmark
for the British justice system, with legal experts predicting hundreds of
prisoners jailed on the strength of low copy DNA testing will appeal against
convictions. Police have now suspended the testing technique.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Irish terrorists 'plan wave of attacks'

BYLINE: By Matt Drake IN LONDON and Patrick Griffin IN BELFAST

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 2

LENGTH: 403  words


DISSIDENT Irish republicans are preparing a wave of terror attacks in the run-up
to the New Year, security services believe.

Splinter cells determined to destroy the peace process are reported to have
finalised plans for a random bombing campaign as they step up attempts to
disrupt the "normalisation" inside the province.

Last night a security forces source confirmed they had received intelligence
containing a chilling reference to a "big bang" before the end of the year.

The threat is considered serious and security teams have been alerted in all
major towns.

It comes as tensions mount over the acquittal of Sean Hoey, 38 - the only
suspect to be tried for for the murder of 29 people in the 1998 Omagh bombing.

Hoey, from South Armagh, was cheered by his supporters as Mr Justice Weir
cleared him of all 58 charges, including 29 of murder, after ruling there were
doubts over the DNA evidence that was essential to the prosecution.

Hoey has now threatened to sue the father of one of the victims after his
lawyers studied remarks made by Victor Barker, whose 12-year-old son was killed
by the blast. The Omagh atrocity - the worst single act of terrorism during the
Troubles - has long been the cause of bitterness between rival factions.

Last month the Independent Monitoring Commission, which reports on terrorist
activity in Northern Ireland, revealed that dissident republicans were
responsible for a pipe bomb attack on a police station in Strabane, Co Tyrone.

The Commission described the Continuity IRA as "active, dangerous and committed"
and said it was responsible for at least two paramilitary murders in Northern
Ireland this year.

The Commission also said in its report that 400lb of homemade explosives found
by police in Craigavon, Co Armagh, last August belonged to the group.

One police source said last night:

"The threat is being taken seriously. There has been talk of them aiming for a
'big bang' before the New Year. Nobody wants to go back to those days."

The Real IRA also continues to pose a threat to police officers, according to
the Commission, which claimed it was responsible for a shooting last April.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that the Hoey trial would prove to be a landmark
for the British justice system, with legal experts predicting hundreds of
prisoners jailed on the strength of low copy DNA testing will appeal against
convictions. Police have now suspended the testing technique.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 24, 2007 Monday

Terrorist attack prevented in Russia's Ingushetia

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 24 December: An explosive device was found late on Sunday in a car
parked near a school in the settlement of Ordzhonikidzevskaya in Russia's
southern republic of Ingushetia, sources from republican law-enforcement
agencies told ITAR-TASS on Monday [24 December].

The suspicious vehicle, VAZ-21010, was detected at about 10 pm, on Sunday,
Moscow time [1900 gmt on 23 December]. A powerful explosive device, consisting
of ammonium nitrate and aluminium powder, was found there. The bomb was defused.
Police search for criminals preparing a terrorist act.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in English 0440 gmt 24 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 24, 2007, Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Man charged over terror attack plan;
COURTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 80 words


A 38-year-old man has been charged with preparing a terrorist attack, police
said yesterday.

The unnamed man from the Small Heath area of Birmingham was charged yesterday
evening with one offence under Section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006.

The man will appear at the City of Westminster Magistrates' Court this morning.

A spokeswoman for West Midlands Police said: "The charge relates to the alleged
engagement in conduct for the preparation of an intention to commit an act of
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 24, 2007 Monday

Muslim leaders condemn terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 124 words


Muslim leaders in Leicestershire have condemned a terrorist attack on a mosque
in Pakistan which left at least 50 people dead.

A suicide attacker detonated a bomb packed with ball bearings and nails among
hundreds of worshippers in Sherpao, a village 25 miles north-east of the city of
Peshawar on Friday. The attack, which came during the Islamic holy day of Eid ul
Adha, created a scene of carnage.

Chairman of the Leicestershire Federation of Muslim Organisations, Suleman
Nagdi, said: "These attacks were directed against the Pakistani people and their
infrastructure, and clearly show the desperate nature of these attackers. Our
prayers are with all those affected."

Mr Nagdi urged the Pakistani government to bring the perpetrators to justice.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2007 Tuesday

Pakistan politician says will not be cowed down by terror attacks

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 24 December: Former Interior Minister, Aftab Ahmed Sherpao has said
that he will not give in to militants' violence and the 21 December attack has
strengthened his resolve to serve the people.

Sherpao said he could not imagine the terrorists could strike even in the
mosque, Dawn News reported.

Aftab Sherpao added that he would not be cowed down by such cowardly attacks,
and would continue to serve his people. He said that no body can throw him out
of politics through suicide attacks.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1551gmt
24 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2007 Tuesday

Russia: Chechen police put on alert to avert possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of report by GTRK Vaynakh TV, Chechen affiliate of official Russian state
broadcaster, on 24 December

Chechen police have been put on alert. [The republican] police leadership vows
to prevent possible subversive terrorist attacks by the rebels. A meeting has
been held at the Interior Ministry to discuss this issue. Interior Minister
[Ruslan Alkhanov] determined the police priorities for near future. The posts of
the police patrol service should be increased. A number of preventive measures
have been planned as well.

[Video shows the meeting at the ministry]

Source: GTRK Vaynakh TV, Groznyy, in Chechen 1730 gmt 24 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday

UPDATE: Family's arson attack terror ordeal

BYLINE: Paul Keaveny

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


A MOTHER has spoken of her terror after her home was set on fire.

Stephanie Lomas, her partner Robert Gilbert and their 17-year-old son William
had to scramble out of a first floor bedroom window of the house in Singleton
Avenue, Horwich, after the attack early on Saturday morning.

Police and fire investigations revealed that arsonists had targeted the house by
setting the letterbox on fire.

It is thought that they may have lit a cloth or newspapers which were soaked in
an unknown chemical.

The blaze caused extensive damage to the door and porch and the family had to
spend the night in the Royal Bolton Hospital where they were treated for smoke
inhalation.

Mrs Lomas, aged 54, said: "I woke up coughing and Robert said that I should get
a drink of water.

"I put the light on and saw the bedroom was full of smoke. Robert went
downstairs and the front door was on fire."

Mr Gilbert, aged 37, woke his sleeping son and the three were able to get out of
the house though a bedroom veranda.

Mrs Lomas said: "I felt awful when I was told that somebody had set our house on
fire. Why would somebody do that? They must be sick to do something like that."

She said just felt "terrible panic" when she saw the smoke and realised there
was a fire, adding: "It's just lucky that I woke up coughing when I did or we
could have all been killed."

The family have had to pay £300 for a new front door and will also have to
redecorate the house after smoke blackened the walls.

Police are appealing for anyone with information about the attack to come
forward.

Det Con Paul Reed, of Bolton CID, said: "There was clear intent to target this
house and it is only sheer luck no-one was injured. If the fire had not been
contained in the front door, it could have spread throughout the house and the
consequences could have been tragic.

"At this stage, there does not appear to be any motive for this senseless attack
and I would appeal to anyone who has information to contact officers as soon as
possible."

Anyone with information should call Bolton CID on 0161 856 0064 or
Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Smeaton hails forgotten heroes of city terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words


HERO airport worker John Smeaton has told how he fears his fame has eclipsed the
efforts of others who helped stop the Glasgow Airport attack.

The 31-year-old became a star overnight after he helped police take on a man who
was in a blazing jeep which had been driven into the airport terminal.

He has been feted from London to New York, mingling with top politicians and
celebrities at glitzy bashes, and received many awards.

It was revealed last week he is to be given the Queen's Gallantry Medal, one of
the highest civilian honours for bravery.

But the airport worker, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, said he feels guilty about
all the attention directed at him and that others who helped out are not getting
the recognition they deserve.

He welcomed the awards given earlier this month to the first 15 firefighters at
the scene - but still felt more could be done.

He said: "Everyone should be getting the same as me.

"They did exactly the same as me, probably a bit more. If I put myself in their
position, I wouldn't be happy."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Smeaton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Terror attack hero Smeaton tells of guilt at "grabbing all the attention'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 472 words


HERO airport worker John Smeaton spoke yesterday of fears that his fame has
eclipsed the efforts of others who helped stop the Glasgow Airport attack.

The 31-year-old became a star overnight after he helped police take on a man who
was in a blazing jeep which had been driven into the airport terminal.

Now known by his nickname of Smeato, he has been feted from London to New York,
mingling with top politicians and celebrities at glitzy bashes. He has received
many awards and it was revealed last week that he is to be given the Queen's
Gallantry Medal, one of the highest civilian honours for bravery.

But the airport worker, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, said he feels guilty about
all the attention directed at him.

Many others who helped out in the attack, who Mr Smeaton feels did more than he
did, are not getting the recognition they deserve, he said. He welcomed the
awards given earlier this month to the first 15 firefighters at the scene but
felt more could be done.

"I do feel guilty. Everyone should be getting the same as me, " he said. "They
did exactly the same as me, probably a bit more. If I put myself in their
position, I wouldn't be particularly happy if someone else was grabbing all the
attention.

"Those firefighters trained their hoses on the fire. They were right beside it
and parked their fire engines just a few yards away.

"And there are all the people who got the airport up and running again, all the
staff who had to deal with annoyed passengers."

It was Mr Smeaton's comments immediately after the attack which catapulted him
to stardom. In a TV interview, he described his feelings as he ran in and
tackled the alleged terrorist: "This is Glasgow, you know . . . we'll set about
you."

This was broadcast across the world and he was instantly elevated to celebrity
status.

He has met Gordon Brown four times, and was publicly congratulated by the Prime
Minister at the Labour Party conference in Bournemouth.

At the start of December, he travelled to New York to receive an Everyday
Superhero award from TV news channel CNN.

Many of the honours have gone not just to Mr Smeaton, but also to others who
helped out. Michael Kerr, Stephen Clarkson and Alex McIlveen were honoured
alongside Mr Smeaton at the Mirror Pride of Britain Awards.

But despite his desire to see others honoured, the cult of celebrity around him
seems only to grow stronger.

"I would like to see the others get a wee bit of recognition, " he said. "I do
not know what should be done exactly, perhaps a lot of people should get
medals."

Despite his concerns, the media circus is not set to slow down. A BBC
documentary about him will be broadcast in the New Year. When asked about
reports he is going to slip quietly out of the limelight, he simply shrugged his
shoulders.

"What can you do? People ring me up and ask me to do things, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CULT FIGURE: John Smeaton believes others who helped do not get the
recognition they deserve.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday

UPDATE: Family's arson attack terror ordeal

BYLINE: Paul Keaveny

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A MOTHER has spoken of her terror after her home was set on fire.

Stephanie Lomas, her partner Robert Gilbert and their 17-year-old son William
had to scramble out of a first floor bedroom window of the house in Singleton
Avenue, Horwich, after the attack early on Saturday morning.

Police and fire investigations revealed that arsonists had targeted the house by
setting the letterbox on fire.

It is thought that they may have lit a cloth or newspapers which were soaked in
an unknown chemical.

The blaze caused extensive damage to the door and porch and the family had to
spend the night in the Royal Bolton Hospital where they were treated for smoke
inhalation.

Mrs Lomas, aged 54, said: "I woke up coughing and Robert said that I should get
a drink of water.

"I put the light on and saw the bedroom was full of smoke. Robert went
downstairs and the front door was on fire."

Mr Gilbert, aged 37, woke his sleeping son and the three were able to get out of
the house though a bedroom veranda.

Mrs Lomas said: "I felt awful when I was told that somebody had set our house on
fire. Why would somebody do that? They must be sick to do something like that."

She said just felt "terrible panic" when she saw the smoke and realised there
was a fire, adding: "It's just lucky that I woke up coughing when I did or we
could have all been killed."

The family have had to pay £300 for a new front door and will also have to
redecorate the house after smoke blackened the walls.

Police are appealing for anyone with information about the attack to come
forward.

Det Con Paul Reed, of Bolton CID, said: "There was clear intent to target this
house and it is only sheer luck no-one was injured. If the fire had not been
contained in the front door, it could have spread throughout the house and the
consequences could have been tragic.

"At this stage, there does not appear to be any motive for this senseless attack
and I would appeal to anyone who has information to contact officers as soon as
possible."

Anyone with information should call Bolton CID on 0161 856 0064 or
Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

Nationwide terror alert after car bomb attack

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 296 words


The busiest day of the year at Glasgow Airport turned to horror after an alleged
terrorist attack.

As thousands of families prepared for flights to the sun,   a Jeep Cherokee
slammed straight through the entrance to the main terminal.

The vehicle burst into flames. A man  leapt out and doused himself in petrol
before being manhandled to the ground by police and other passengers.

Later gas cannisters were allegedly  found. If they had exploded, the toll of
dead   could have been catastrophic.

After the discovery of failed car bombs in London just the day before, new Prime
Minister Gordon Brown immediately put the country on "critical" alert  - the
highest possible and denoting a terrorist attack could be imminent.

While a badly-burned  occupant of the Cherokee  was being treated at Paisley's
Royal Alexandra Hospital, there was another major scare when it was feared he
had a suicide bomb strapped to his body. However, this was a false alarm.

Soon after another man  was arrested and  police swooped on a house in nearby
Houston believed to have been the rented home of   suspects.

Within hours anti-terrorist officers made a series of other arrests and raids
across the UK, several of the suspects young doctors working in hospitals here.

None of them was believed to have been born and brought up in Britain.

Another 27-year-old doctor was arrested as he boarded a plane in Brisbane on a
one-way ticket to India.

It was believed police were following up information downloaded from mobile
phones found in the two booby-trapped Mercedes in London.

Meanwhile, security at airports, rail and bus stations was stepped up.

No private cars were allowed on airport forecourts.

It was later reported US officials had warned of a possible terror attack on
Glasgow Airport two weeks before.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

Russia condemns terrorist attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 222 words


The Russian Federation Foreign Ministry hopes that the Pakistani leadership will
succeed in taking measures to preserve stability in the country, ITAR-TASS news
agency has reported. The report came in at 1342 gmt on 27 December, shortly
after the terrorist attack in Pakistan in which opposition leader Benazir Bhutto
was killed.

"Moscow has repeatedly pointed out to the need for the Pakistani authorities to
do everything possible in this key period [presidential election] to ensure
stability in the country. We hope that the country's authorities will ensure
stability and will not allow a repeat of terrorist attacks. We are resolutely
condemning what has happened and are expressing condolences," ITAR-TASS quoted
the official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Mikhail Kamynin, as
saying.

In an earlier report, at 1333 gmt, quoting Russian Deputy Foreign Minister
Aleksandr Losyukov, ITAR-TASS news agency said that the terrorist attack, which
was perpetrated in Pakistan today and in which Benazir Bhutto died, could whip
up a wave of terrorism in this country.

"The terrorist attack is a bad sign. We are expressing condolences in this
connection. This will most certainly whip up a wave of terrorism," the agency
quoted Losyukov as saying.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1342; 1333 gmt 27 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 27, 2007, Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

Fresh attack on terrorist suspect plan;
BRITAIN

BYLINE: GAVIN CORDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 354 words


THE Director of Public Prosecutions yesterday launched a fresh attack on Gordon
Brown's plans to extend the time that terror suspects can be held without
charge.

Sir Ken Macdonald said that the evidence had shown that the existing 28-day
limit was working well and he accused ministers of legislating on the basis of
"hypotheticals".

His latest intervention will come as a further blow to the prime minister as he
gears up for a battle with Labour rebels over his plans to extend the limit to
42 days.

"I think the basic point is whether you want to legislate on the basis of
hypotheticals or whether you want to legislate on the basis of the evidence that
we have acquired through practice," Sir Ken told BBC Radio 4's The World at One.

"It seems tome that if youare legislating in an area which is going to curtail
civil liberties to a significant extent, it is better to proceed by way of the
evidence and the evidence of experience."

Ministers argue that the increasingly complexity of terror cases - potentially
involving individuals in several countries with large quantities of encrypted
computer data-means that they could soon be faced with a case where 28 days was
not enough.

However, Sir Ken said that he believed that an extension would make little
difference.

"We have found that a period of 28 days does work for us as prosecutors," he
said.

"We can charge on the basis of a 'reasonable suspicion' within that period, so
long as we anticipate that sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect
of conviction will be forthcoming within a reasonable period.

"I think it would be quite difficult if you didn't even have sufficient evidence
to provide reasonable suspicion for a charge after 28 days to persuade a judge
that you would somehow acquire that evidence after 35 or 42."

Sir Ken is among a number of senior figures - including Security Minister Lord
West of Spithead and ex-Attorney General Lord Goldsmith - to have voiced
misgivings.

With both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats opposed to any extension, Mr
Brown is facing a bitter battle to get the legislation through when MPs return
to Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald, who yesterday
launched a fresh attack on Gordon Brown's plans to extend the time terror
suspects can be held without charge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

BHUTTO KILLED BY SUICIDE BOMBER;
Former Pakistani premier is killed in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 352 words


PAKISTAN'S opposition leader Benazir Bhutto was killed in a horrific suicide
bomb attack today.

She was shot in the head and neck as she got into her car after addressing a
rally. The gunman then blew himself up, killing at least another 20 people.

Ms Bhutto, twice the country's prime minister, was rushed to hospital in
Rawalpindi.

News of her death was released by party member Wasif Ali Khan, who said simply:
"At 6:16pm she expired.

A senior military official confirmed that Ms Bhutto, 54, had died, along with at
least another 20 people.

Her supporters at the hospital began chanting "Dog, Musharraf, dog, " referring
to Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf.

Some of them smashed the glass door at the main entrance of the emergency unit,
others burst into tears.

Ms Bhutto had just addressed thousands of people in a public park as part of her
campaign for the country's parliamentary elections due on January 8.

A spokesman for her party said her vehicle was yards away from the blast. He
said: "She had just crossed the gate when we heard a deafening sound. We could
feel its impact."

Party supporter Chaudry Nazir said two shots rang out when Ms Bhutto's vehicle
pulled into the street and then there was a big blast.

Police cordoned off the street and rescue workers rushed to put victims in
ambulances as people wailed nearby.

Amid horrific scenes, body parts, pieces of clothing and party banners were
scattered on the street. The clothing of some victims was shredded and people
put party flags over their bodies. Police caps and shoes littered the area.

Earlier, hundreds of riot police had manned security checkpoints to guard the
venue. It was Ms Bhutto's first public meeting in Rawalpindi since she came back
to the country.

Rahman Malik, Ms Bhutto's security adviser, said: "She was the prime target. We
had information that Benazir Bhutto's life was in danger."

The killing sparked fears the nuclear-armed country could be plunged into civil
war. Riaz Malik, of the Pakistan Movement for Justice party warned: "The impact
will be Pakistan is in more turmoil. It will be the start of civil war in
Pakistan."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rescue teams lift one man away from the scene of the blast which
followed Benazir Bhutto's assassination

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

Director attacks terror proposal

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 236 words


The Director of Public Prosecutions yesterday launched a fresh attack on Gordon
Brown's plans to extend the time that terror suspects can be held without
charge.

Sir Ken Macdonald said  evidence had shown that the existing 28-day limit was
working well and he accused ministers of legislating on the basis of
"hypotheticals".

His latest intervention will come as a further blow to the Prime Minister as he
gears up for a battle with Labour rebels over his plans to extend the limit to
42 days.

"I think the basic point is whether you want to legislate on the basis of
hypotheticals or whether you want to legislate on the basis of the evidence that
we have acquired through practice," Sir Ken said.

"It seems to me that if you are legislating in an area which is going to curtail
civil liberties to a significant extent, it is better to proceed by way of the
evidence and the evidence of experience."

Ministers argue that the increasingly complexity of terror cases   potentially
involving individuals in several countries with large quantities of encrypted
computer data   means that they could soon be faced with a case where 28 days
was not enough. However, Sir Ken said  he believed an extension to 42 days would
make little difference in practice.

Tony Blair suffered his first Commons defeat when he tried to extend the limit
to 90 days, and Mr Brown may find it equally difficult to get the changes that
he wants.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

IT WAS LIKE A NIGHTMARE, ONLY WORSE ..IT WAS REAL;
EXCLUSIVE SUGABABES MACHETE TERROR AMELLE ON LOVER ATTACK

BYLINE: BY EMILY MILLER AND MARK JEFFERIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 386 words


SUGABABE Amelle Berrabah told yesterday how she screamed in terror after her
boyfriend was brutally attacked with a machete.

The stunned singer said: "It was horrific - like a nightmare but worse because
it was real.

"How one person can do that to another I don't know.

"I couldn't stop myself screaming."

Amelle, 23, was "devastated" by the attack that left Freddie Fuller with an arm
and leg hanging off.

Puffing nervously on a cigarette she said: "I haven't slept since it happened -
I've been so worried.

She added: "I think I'm still in shock. I just hope the police catch whoever did
it, but they say he has completely disappeared."

Amelle had been on a pub crawl in Aldershot, Hants, with tree surgeon Freddie,
25, and her sisters Zakiya and Nora on Christmas Eve.

He was attacked in the few minutes they were apart, after she had moved the
group on to another bar. She found him sprawled in a pool of blood surrounded by
police and paramedics.

"He had been left for dead," she says.

As the ambulance pulled away, she steeled herself and followed in her silver
Mercedes. Fearing the worst, she waited anxiously at Frimley Park Hospital,
Surrey, as surgeons operated on Freddie for six hours to save his arm and put
metal plates in his right leg.

Amelle, who has been keeping vigil at his bedside, says: "It's awful to see him
lying there so still, with his face so pale and his limbs all bound up. He keeps
slipping in and out of consciousness, so we have barely been able to speak.

"I brushed his teeth this morning and washed his face because he can't do
anything himself at the moment.

"I watch every flicker of his eyes to see how he's doing and he seems to be
getting a bit stronger.

"But the doctors say he's going to need constant care for at least eight weeks,
so I've decided to book him into a private hospital."

Amelle will put on a brave face for a Sugababes New Year's Eve gig at London's
O2 centre before returning to his side.

Just last month, she spoke of her desire to marry Freddie, despite their rocky
relationship since they started dating in 2004. She said last night: "I just
want him to get well."

The attack is thought to have been provoked by a disagreement between Freddie
and a business rival.

Police were last night searching for a 28-year-old man in connection with the
incident.

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANXIOUS: Amelle at hospital yesterday; HORROR SCENE: Freddie was
savagely attacked just yards from town centre pub Pictures: ROGER ALLEN;
ROMANCE: With Fuller Picture: ROGER ALLEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          December 27, 2007, Thursday

Prosecutor attacks terror detention plan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 95 words


The Director of Public Prosecutions has launched a fresh attack on Gordon
Brown's plans to extend the time that terror suspects can be held without
charge.

Sir Ken Macdonald told BBC Radio 4's The World at One that the existing 28-day
limit was working well and he accused ministers of legislating on the basis of
"hypotheticals".

His latest intervention will come as a further blow to Mr Brown as he prepares
to battle with Labour rebels over his plans to extend the limit to 42 days.

"It is better to proceed by way of the evidence and the evidence of experience,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 27, 2007

Prosecutor attacks bid to extend terror detentions

LENGTH: 381 words


The Director of Public Prosecutions has launched a fresh attack on Gordon
Brown's plans to extend the time that terror suspects can be held without
charge.

Sir Ken Macdonald said the evidence had shown that the existing 28-day limit was
working well and he accused ministers of legislating on the basis of
"hypotheticals".

His latest intervention will come as a further blow to the Prime Minister as he
gears up for a battle with Labour rebels over his plans to extend the limit to
42 days.

"I think the basic point is whether you want to legislate on the basis of
hypotheticals or whether you want to legislate on the basis of the evidence that
we have acquired through practice," Sir Ken told BBC Radio 4's The World at One.

"It seems to me that if you are legislating in an area which is going to curtail
civil liberties to a significant extent, it is better to proceed by way of the
evidence and the evidence of experience."

Ministers argue that the increasingly complexity of terror cases - potentially
involving individuals in several countries with large quantities of encrypted
computer data - means that they could soon be faced with a case where 28 days
was not enough.

However, Sir Ken said that he believed that an extension to 42 days would make
little difference in practice.

"We have found that a period of 28 days does work for us as prosecutors," he
said.

"We can charge on the basis of a 'reasonable suspicion' within that period so
long as we anticipate that sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect
of conviction will be forthcoming within a reasonable period.

"So I think it would be quite difficult if you didn't even have sufficient
evidence to provide reasonable suspicion for a charge after 28 days to persuade
a judge that you would somehow acquire that evidence after 35 or 42."

Sir Ken is among a number of senior figures - including Security Minister Lord
West of Spithead and ex-Attorney General Lord Goldsmith - to have voiced
misgivings about the plan.

With both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats opposed to any extension, Mr
Brown is facing a bitter parliamentary battle to get the legislation through in
the new year.

Tony Blair suffered his first Commons defeat when he tried to extend the limit
to 90 days, and Mr Brown may find it equally difficult.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Appeal to help trace Christmas Day sex attacker;
TERROR ORDEAL: Victim, 18, left traumatised by encounter

BYLINE: By Amy Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 218 words


DETECTIVES are hunting a sex attacker who pounced on a teenager as she walked
home in Coventry on Christmas Day.

The 18-year-old victim was walking along Foleshill Road, Foleshill, Coventry, at
8.30pm when she was approached by a man standing at a bus stop.

The man walked with her to the junction with Elmsdale Avenue behind a red Ford
Escort van which was parked on a shop frontage, where he subjected her to a
serious sexual assault.

The teenager was not injured during the incident, but was traumatised by her
ordeal.

The offender is described as a black male, aged in his mid 20s. about 5ft 6in,
with a bald head, clean-shaven and a chubby, baby face.

He was wearing an offcream overcoat with big collars, and a dark woollen scarf.

Detective Inspector Nigel Harrison, of Stoney Stanton Road police station, said:

"This was a distressing ordeal for a young woman who was walking home on
Christmas Day.

"This is being investigated as a serious matter and we are determined to find
the man responsible for this attack."

He added: "We are treating this as an isolated incident but remind people, as
always, to be mindful of their personal safety."

Anyone who witnessed the attack, or who has any information, is asked to contact
Stoney Stanton Road CID on 0845 113 5000 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL... Det Insp Nigel Harrison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Lancashire Evening Post

                               December 30, 2007

Machete attack terror at garage

LENGTH: 318 words


A raider brandishing a machete demanded cash from a terrified 21-year-old
cashier in a raid at a Preston petrol station.

Two men approached the petrol station on Tag Lane at around 8.20pm on Saturday,
with one of the gang entering the shop.

He then walked up to the counter, which was being staffed by a 21-year-old
woman, and produced the large knife before ordering her to hand over cash.

The robbery, at Petrol Express in Ingol, was the second in the city during a
24-hour period.

Det Sgt Gareth Willis, of Preston CID, described the incident as a "terrifying
ordeal" for the cashier.

He added: "She has been clearly shook up and traumatised by what happened to
her. She was threatened with a machete before they got away with around £600."

The two men left the station, which is on a busy main road and close to the
Guild Merchant pub, on foot.

Police believe the pair waited until the woman was alone in the shop before
carrying out their terrifying raid.

A 20-year-old local man has been arrested in connection with the incident and
will be quizzed by detectives at Preston Police Station.

CCTV footage from the shop and forecourt was being studied by detectives today.

The attacker who entered the shop is described as a white male, dressed in dark
clothing. His face was covered with a scarf and he was carrying a large knife.

Det Sgt Willis added: "We urgently need to speak to witnesses who may have seen
a man or a couple of males hanging round nearby.

"Anyone who may have information as to who they are or where they went after
they left or who saw anyone acting suspiciously should get in touch."

The incident comes just 24 hours after staff at a William Hill bookmakers on New
Hall Lane were robbed of £500 by a gang armed with a metal bar on Friday night.

Police believe the two robberies are not linked.

Anyone with information about either of the two incidents should contact Preston
police on 01772 203203.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 Scots Edition

GLASGOW AIRPORT TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: ANNA SMITH

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 50 words


SMEATO shouldn't feel guilty that he's hogging the limelight because of his
heroics in the Glasgow Airport terrorist attack. Of course he's not the only
hero, as others waded in to the bombers. But his "This is Glasgow and we'll set
aboot ye" line alone will ensure him an ongoing place in all our hearts.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                           December 30, 2007, Sunday
                                 2 Star Edition

Terrorist attacks and more crazy weather heading our way in 2008

BYLINE: ADAM ASPINALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 111

LENGTH: 547 words


MORE bad weather, even worse Government and a plague of terrorist attacks are
among the alarming predictions for 2008.

That's the verdict of Old Moore's Almanack, which has been forecasting the
future for 310 years.

The famous book, which notably predicted the 9/11 terror attacks in the US,
suggests there's more bad news on the way.

Here's the way 2008 is set to shape up:

JANUARY: Perhaps not the best moment for a holiday in Iran as tensions between
the Middle East country and the USA will mount to boiling point.

FEBRUARY: Since the Almanack first appeared in 1697, it's been spot-on when it
comes to weather. It predicts that massive earthquakes and storms will rage
around the world battering the USA in particular. On a brighter note it notes
that a turbulent start to the month will be replaced with a sense of global
optimism at the end.

MARCH: That optimism won't last long in Britain though as Gordon Brown's
Government will be close to collapse as internal fighting takes its toll on the
soon-to-be beleaguered Prime Minister. But he might not be too gloomy if he puts
some money on an eight-year old second favourite at the Cheltenham Gold Cup.

APRIL: Scottish Independence is top of the bill this month as a referendum comes
close north of the border. South East Asia becomes the focus for the rest of the
world as it will be at high risk of a terrorist attack or natural disaster.

MAY: Extremist parties do well in the local elections against a backdrop of
major corruption in the British Government, while the collapse of a major media
company will capture all the headlines.

JUNE: The final withdrawal of British troops from Iraq is on the horizon while a
formal division between Kurdish north and Arab south takes shape. There is even
more trouble for the Government as revelations of fraud, money laundering and
criminal activity at the highest levels is revealed.

JULY: Tax breaks for hard pressed parents are proposed by the Government to
curry favour with an angry public, but this fails to quell the unrest leading to
violence on the streets of London.

AUGUST: Sudden troubles are expected this month such as prison rioting and the
outbreak of new forms of virus. Meanwhile the US Presidential race will turn
bloody as violent outbursts mar the campaign for the White House.

SEPTEMBER: The secret services are lauded in the press after it will be revealed
they played a crucial role in averting a major terrorist attack on mainland
Britain.

OCTOBER: Investors are advised to be wary as the financial markets are due for a
downturn this month. This is not helped by a divisive presidential election in
the USA which has polarised the nation.

NOVEMBER: There will be major shifts towards privatisation of the NHS and reform
of the House of Lords will be underway with a further shift to an unelected
chamber. The American Presidential election will result in a victory for the
Democrats.

DECEMBER: The education system will be in crisis in the run-up to Christmas with
teachers striking and parents and pupils suing schools. There could also be a
threat to the postal system that may be unable to cope with the Christmas rush.

adamaspinall@mrn.co.uk Old Moore's Almanack is published by Old Moore
Publications, priced pounds 1.99, available from local newsagents and
bookstores.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PREDICTIONS: Earthquakes and tension between Iran and America set to
dominate the headlines

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 30, 2007

John Smeaton, hero of the Glasgow airport terrorist attack, is feeling guilty

BYLINE: Fiona McCade

SECTION: FEATURES; Ecosse with Scotland News Review; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 77 words


John Smeaton, hero of the Glasgow airport terrorist attack, is feeling guilty
about the plethora of attention and awards he's been given. Relax, Smeato, you
deserve it. Your humble reaction is what we expect from a hero. Besides, when
the new year's honours list is published tomorrow, and you see hundreds of
political cronies, egotistical rock stars and self-serving businessmen receiving
gongs, you could be forgiven for wondering why you didn't get a dukedom.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 31, 2007 Monday

Belgian investigators still fear terror attack

LENGTH: 781 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 31 December

[Report by Mark Eeckhaut: "Investigators Still Fear Terrorist Attack"]

Brussels - The security services are still convinced that the 14 Muslim
extremists who were arrested on Friday, 21 December and subsequently set free
again had evil purposes.

There will be no fireworks in Brussels tonight and the Christmas market and ice
skating rink will close down earlier than before. These are the latest
antiterrorism measures implemented yesterday in the wake of meeting of the
Interior Ministry's crisis cell and another terrorism threat analysis. Together
with these new measures, the heightened vigilance in Brussels subway and railway
stations, at airports, and at places where many people gather, such as the
central market square, will remain in place.

Last week, Senator Jean-Marie Dedecker (LDD [Dutch-speaking List Dedecker])
called the measures "a Christmas show by the interim government that is costing
our country a fortune." His colleague-Senator Anne-Marie Lizin (PS
[French-speaking Socialist Party]) demanded an inquiry into the quality of the
information that has led to the overestimation - in her opinion - of the
terrorism alarm. In the opinion of the two senators, the release of the 14
suspects the same evening of their arrest on 21 December corroborates their
point of view.

The crisis cell of the Interior Ministry, however, does not flinch. It invokes
analyses made by OCAD [Threat Analyses Coordination Body]. This coordination
centre, which has been in place for about one and a half year, coordinates all
federal security and intelligence services that are involved in the fight
against terrorism. None of the people involved wants to elaborate on any
concrete indications the service has. "We received information from different
independent, both domestic and foreign, sources that Muslim extremists were
planning to liberate Nizar Trabelsi from prison and that they intended to
perpetrate an attack at a crowed place somewhere in Brussels," they said.

According to our information, the suspects first talked about the liberation of
Trabelsi. By mid-December, their discourse changed. All at once, they started
talking about a "blind" attack. Off course, this prompted the legal authorities
to go into overdrive.

It is not clear whether this information was right or whether it was no more
than bragging and boasting [on the part of the suspects]. "It is always
difficult to pick the right moment in such investigations. When you enter into
action too early, you will have no evidence. But if you react too late, you risk
50 people may die," investigators observed.

There is no doubt that the behaviour of the 14 suspects who were arrested on 21
December was extremely suspicious in telephone and email exchanges over the past
few weeks. All 14 belonged to the entourage of Nizar Trabelsi. Trabelsi is
serving a 10-year prison sentence in our country on account of plotting a bomb
car attack.

Among the 14 suspects were Ahmed Temsamani, a raider and former cell mate of
Trabelsi, and two other convicts. They also included Naima, Trabelsi's second
spouse. She was detained on 21 December together with two of her adult children.
One of them is a chemist. "She is able to manufacture a bomb," Naima said on
various occasion over the phone. "I was only joking," Naima currently says.

In other telephone conversations, the suspects also talked about other "jokes."
Naima's adult son, for instance, talked with his stepfather Nizar Trabelsi about
becoming a suicide bomber. In other telephone calls, the suspects raised a plan
to carry out "tests" in subway stations. "We will surreptitiously throw empty
cans in waste bins. This will prompt them to take action and then we will know
whether we are being monitored or not," they said.

The police and the legal authorities receive support from at least one
unsuspected source. One day after her release, Malika El Aroud, one of the 14
people who were arrested and released again on 21 December, reacted to the
police action on the www.forumbismallah.com[1] internet forum. Malika is the
widow of Abdessatar Dahmane, the man who killed Afghan opposition leader Ahmad
Shah Mas'ud in a suicide attack the day before the 11 September [ 2001] attacks.

"It may surprise you but for once I think the police was right to act. One of
the arrested persons has said on my phone that there would be a violent hostage
taking if the prison regime of Nizar Trabelsi was not to be eased. Of course she
was talking nonsense. But still no wonder that the police react to that, is it
not?"

Source: De Standaard website, Groot-Bijgaarden, in Dutch 31 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

Four policemen killed in terrorist attack east of Algiers - details 1

LENGTH: 519 words


Excerpt from report by H. Y headlined "Suicide bomber targets police station
with a booby-trapped truck" published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper
El-Khabar website on 3 January

The police station in Naciria was reduced to a pile of rubble yesterday after
the strong explosion that rocked the whole neighbourhood. Eye-witnesses said a
terrorist driving a commercial truck stroke the police station, leaving four
dead, according to official figures, and many wounded. The eye-witnesses told
El-Khabar that three of the dead were policemen while many of the wounded were
[civilians] from the neighbouring houses, whose roofs collapsed on them.

According to an inhabitant of the city, at 0745 [local time], he heard an
explosion near the entrance of Naciria City, in the direction of the highway.
Several persons rushed to the scene of the explosion, as a result, and saw the
massive destruction brought in the police station. The explosion damaged the
building's façade, offices and the sleeping rooms of the security personnel.
Beds were seen outside dangling from the building. A two-meter-deep crater,
caused by the car bomb, was located at the building entrance. Several meters
away, members of the forensic team inspected what remained from the
booby-trapped car - its engine and parts of its exterior structure. An
investigator said initial indicators showed it was a small truck while another
person from the city said he had seen a Toyota pickup truck colliding with the
police office. He said he could not remember the features of the driver.

A 30-year-old youth who lives 40 meters away from the police station said: "Less
than 10 minutes after I woke up, I heard a massive boom outside. It rocked the
house and part of the roof collapsed. I ran to the door to get out and I found
my friend telling me the police station was sabotaged by a bomb. When we moved
to the police station, we found it as rubble and four of its policemen became
dismembered boy parts, scattered away. They were the policemen we see everyday
in the city."

Members of the scientific police who were deployed in the perimeter collected
small body parts in cartoon boxes for laboratory tests. What remained from
someone's head appeared in the box as a policemen said it was the head of one of
the policemen killed in the explosion. Sniff dogs were observed to be present in
the area, searching for the victims' body parts, amid the rubble where the
stench of blood mixed with the smell of explosives.

[Passage omitted: A policeman says one of the victims was his friend]

A security source said the suicide bomber might have come from the strongholds
of Sidi Ali Bounab, near Naciria. He said the place had been a source of many
attacks which took place in Tizi Ouzou and Boumerdes provinces. Policemen said
they did not rule out being a target because the area, where the police station
is located, opens on the city streets, making it easy an easy target. They added
that the security checkpoint was few meters away only and thus it could not stop
a car approaching at a high speed.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 3 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

Four policemen killed in terrorist attack east of Algiers - details 2

LENGTH: 662 words


Excerpt from report by Atef Kedadra headlined "Spectacles in the capital and
recurrent attacks in the Kabilye region" published by privately-owned Algerian
newspaper El-Khabar website on 3 January

Al-Qa'idah in the Land of Islamic Maghreb attacked again a security site in an
area considered part of its 2nd Region. Al-Qa'idah has nine regions where its
terrorist activities are distributed.

The terrorist organization became used to taking these steps whenever it carried
out operations in the capital. This highlights its [deep] penetration of
positions described as the rear bases which are located in the provinces of
Boumerdes, Tizi Ouzou and Bouira.

According to security sources, the suicide attack that targeted the police
station in Naciria coincided with a military search operation led by a special
counter-terrorism unit of the regiment of parachutists in the forests of Sidi
Ali Bounab [near Naciria]. The search operation was taking place to pursue the
perpetrators of last week's terrorist attack against the security forces in
Dellys.

Observers view these developments - the search operations and the decision by
the commander of [al-Qa'idah's] 2nd Region Huthaifa Abou-Younes to quickly carry
out a new attack, as a guerrilla war tactic.

It is known that Naciria, where yesterday's suicide bombing took place, is
located in the middle of the mountainous areas which serve [as bases for] the
strongest brigades of the 2nd Region, inherited by Al-Qa'idah in the Land of
Islamic Maghreb from the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC] before the
latter changed its name.

Naciria is also known as a crossing point, given its location in the heart of
Sidi Ali Bounab Mountains and Ghazourane Mountains that border Baghlia, a city
in the same province. This region is where the battalions of Al-Ansar and
Al-Nour are active. Fifty brigades and battalions are present in that area,
especially in the difficult forests which are isolated in the Kabylie region.

The security forces kept following the traces of the leaders of the terrorist
organization in Sidi Ali Bounab, an area that stretches from western Boumerdes
Province to the eastern border of Tizi Ouzou Province. Intelligence information
estimated the number of terrorists in this area at 200 terrorists with the
majority active within the Green Brigade.

This is not the first operation by elements of [Al-Qa'idah's] 2nd Region in the
provincial cities, following the "spectacular operations" in the heart of
Algiers. Therefore, analysts reckon it has become part of Abdelmalek Droukdal's
strategy which relies on "carrying out sporadic operations in other areas to
prepare for new penetrations into the capital while maintaining attacks against
security posts in the Kabylie provinces".

[Al-Qa'idah's] 2nd region is known as the "decision-making" centre in the
organization's structure. Most of the terrorist attacks set off from this
region, in light of the availability of a considerable number of hideouts used
to manufacture explosives, and store arms often received from the desert areas
in the western or eastern borders.

These terrorist attacks, believed to be planned by the new commander Huthaifa
Abou-Younes, appear to be more aggressive. Sources that followed his traces say
he was viewed as the "legitimate heir" to Sofiane Facila, who was eliminated
last October. Abou-Younes voraciously learnt from Facila military plans carried
out by small units with divided tasks. The tasks include support, reconnaissance
and filming for propaganda purposes with help from a member of the media
committee. Other units attack the targets.

Huthaifa  Abou-Younes is also known for his quest to "take revenge to the
prisoners" of the organization who are held on terror charges. Moreover, he is
well aware of the geography of the three provinces where the largest number of
Al-Qa'idah's elements are present.

[Passage omitted: Chronology of previous attacks]

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 3 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

GRAN'S VOW TO STAY AFTER HOUSE ATTACK;
TERROR AS GANG TRIES TO TORCH 59-YEAR-OLD'S HOME

BYLINE: BY CONNLA YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 219 words


A BRAVE great-grandmother has vowed to stay in her home after it was attacked by
vandals.

Ann Henry has been left "petrified" after a gang tried to torch the building in
the early hours of yesterday.

Windows in a bedroom and back door were shattered and curtains set alight as the
anti-drugs campaigner watched TV in the living room of her Co Antrim home.

It was the second attack on the 59-year-old community worker's house in less
than a week.

Ann is chairwoman of her local residents' group and a leading figure in the
neighbourhood watch scheme in Portglenone.

She said those responsible "are not going to win, they can go and take a hike".
Ann, who raised four children in London, said her the last two years have been
"horrendous" as her West Road property has been targeted six times.

These have included fireworks being thrown at her home and excrement smeared
over her car.

She claimed that every time she goes out she has received abuse.

Ann said: "After what has happened I feel like I want to run away and that's
what they want me to do. But I'm not going to, I'm staying in my home."

North Antrim Sinn Fein MLA Daithi McKay condemned the attack.

A man has been charged with criminal damage with intent to endanger life and
breaching an anti-social behaviour order.

He is due in court on today.

ulster@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEARS: Ann Henry examines damage to her Portglenone home yesterday;
DETERMINED: Ann says she wants to stay on despite horror attacks on her property

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

Data store in case of terror attacks

BYLINE: Jon Austin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: Echo


A HIGH-TECH centre to protect millions of people's bank account details is set
to be created in Basildon.

Plans have been approved for the data recovery centre, which will be a back-up
system for financial firms in case terrorists attack their headquarters in the
capital.

It will be based in a huge distribution centre which is being built on the
former York International site, in Gardiners Lane South. Astral  Developments
and Standard Life Investments, which own the site, hope to attract financial
big-hitters from London to the back-up facility.

Chris Firth, of Michael Sparks Associates, agent for the application, said the
system of storing personal information in different locations was more essential
than ever.

He said: "Since 9/11, organisations have looked to keep back-up information at
locations outside the capital.

"Should their main databases in London be destroyed in a terror attack, there
would still be full access to all the information."

Tony Ball, deputy council leader, added: "I sincerely hope that the system never
has to be used, because it would mean more terrorism, but it is encouraging that
more and more big business are willing to invest in the district.

"It was sad when York moved out, but it is great a new development has so
quickly taken its place."

The former York factory is being transformed into a £35million, 315,000 sq ft
distribution centre, called Imperium 315, expected to be finished by the spring.

The back-up centre would be part of the development and manned 24-hours-a-day,
with computer systems on mezzanine floors, and standby generators.

A report with the application said: "The data disaster recover centre provides
real-time back up of computer records some miles from the institution's main
location."

Astral Developments and Standard Life bought the site last year for £11m.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Work in progress - deputy council leader Tony Ball welcomed the
investment in the area

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

Pakistan capital fears terror attack - paper

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by Shakil Anjum headlined "Group of terrorists enter Islamabad
again" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 4 January

Islamabad, 4 January: A group of terrorists has entered Islamabad to hit their
targets in the twin cities, a source has claimed.

Government agencies are on high alert against the possible threat of a
subversive attack in and around the federal capital by a suspected terrorist on
the run.

Meanwhile, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Islamabad, Shahid Nadim Baloch,
has said the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) Police had no official
communication with any intelligence agency about the arrival of a group of
terrorists.

He said the Islamabad Capital Territory Police had enhanced the security
measures after the indication from the spokesman of the Ministry of Interior
that some political personalities, including Mian Nawaz Sharif, Aftab Sherpao,
Sheikh Rashid and Amir Muqam were also under threat after Benazir Bhutto.

"Our strategy of protection is different," the IGP said, and added that the
Islamabad police had adopted foolproof system to secure political and top
government figures.

SSP [Senior Superintendent of Police], Islamabad, Syed Kalim Imam, when
contacted, said: "We will use all the resources at our disposal to thwart the
threat of violence from the terrorist groups. We are fully geared up and
exercising extra vigilance."

Snap checking and extensive patrolling were being conducted round the clock, the
SSP said.

Rigorous security measures have been adopted in and around the metropolis amid
fear of violence, Kalim Imam said, adding that the terrorists would be shot at
sight.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 04 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

Turkish president condemns "abhorrent terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 982 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 3 January: Turkish President Abdullah Gul, speaking about the blast in
southeastern province of Diyarbakir, said, "Whole world witnessed ugly face of
terrorist organization and common stance will continue more strongly to deal
with terrorism".

Speaking at a live TV programme, Gul qualified the blast in Diyarbakir as an
"abhorrent terrorist attack" and noted that there were students, young people
among the dead.

Gul expressed his condolences for those who lost their lives in the attack and
wished speedy recovery for the injured.

"It is a fact that firm stance and fight against terrorism has a cost. You
cannot pay this cost if you fail to fight. We will continue to combat terrorism
till to the end," Gul remarked.

Turkish President Abdullah Gul said [on] Thursday [3 January] there is need for
a comprehensive fight against terrorism.

"We have taken many economic and social measures, and Turkey has started to see
the results," he told in a programme on state-run TRT-1 channel.

Gul said terrorism is the most serious problem of Turkey and it is a matter of
life and death.

"Therefore, the government, civilians and soldiers cannot stay away from each
other regarding such a big matter," he told.

Gul said what is important is to be determined and prepared to combat terrorism
and to eliminate all environments that can be misused by terrorists.

Armed fight will continue with determination till the very end, he also said.

Cooperation with USA

Gul said the United States is an ally of Turkey and a country cooperating with
Turkey against terrorism.

"Unfortunately we were late in cooperating (with each other) when terrorism
escalated," he told.

Gul said however, Turkey achieved to draw attention of the USA.

"They saw that Turkey lost its patience. Turkey had decided to do what it had to
do even though there was no cooperation. No matter whatever it took," he told.

Gul said Turkey was determined to combat terrorism. "Turkey could not say the
'USA or another country are not cooperating with us, so let's sit and watch'.
Turkey had taken all the risks."

President Gul reaffirmed that Turkey will continue its fight against terrorism
with determination. However armed struggle is not sufficient enough to eradicate
terrorist organizations, he said.

"We have to win people and region and not to allow misuse of the region. We have
to boost the belonging feelings of our people to our country and state. When we
are doing these, we should also isolate and combat the terrorist organization,"
Gul told.

His visit to USA

On his visit to the USA, Gul said he will discuss not only terrorism but also
many issues.

"It will be an important opportunity to review and boost our cooperation against
terrorism," he told.

Gul said there are several other issues like developments in the Middle East,
Caucasus, Central Asia and energy safety.

"The president (George Bush) will go on a Middle East tour after meeting me.
Therefore, it will be an important opportunity to talk about our regional
experiences," he told.

Constitutional works

On the other hand, Gul said he thinks the more the participation is, the better
and successful constitutional works will be.

"If done, Turkey's new Constitution should be in compliance with EU principles,
criteria and norms," he told.

Turkish President Abdullah Gul said [on] Thursday he wants to see more steps on
the road to the European Union (EU).

"I want to see 2008 as a year in which more steps are taken on our road to the
EU," he told a TV programme on state-run TRT-1 channel.

Gul said the stronger Turkey's political will to take the steps that it did not
take in 2007 is, the less important the negative attitudes of some European
countries will be.

Central Asia and Cyprus controversy

On relations with Central Asia, Gul said Turkey should be in close cooperation
with Central Asian countries.

"Our cooperation and close relations with Turkic republics are not against other
countries," he told.

On the other hand, Gul said Cyprus problem is Turkey's national cause. "However,
we should not make a mistake that will block the path of 72 million people when
we are backing our national cause."

Gul said the world has started to listen to [the self-declared] Turkish Republic
of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) and Turkey and TRNC should show that they are working
for peace.

"We will never leave them alone in their rightful cause," he told.

Turkish President Abdullah Gul said late [on] Thursday a Constitution that would
be adopted by everyone would appear in the end.

President Gul attended a programme on state-run TRT-1 channel and replied to
questions on several matters.

Gul said what was important in regard to combat terrorism was to show the
determination of the state and the people should back the state. "On the other
hand, support of other countries for this matter is also very important.
Cooperation with the United States is also significant. This cooperation will
continue," he stated.

Gul said Turkey attached great importance to the stability in Iraq. "There is no
problem for Turkey in regard to the people in the north of Iraq. Both Kurds and
Turkomans there are our relatives. We only target the terrorist organization
there. The United States knows it. Everyone should be aware of it," he stated.

Replying to another question, Gul said democracy was very important in regard to
fight against terrorism. "Democracy does not end terrorism but isolates
terrorists, and fight against terrorism becomes easy. Therefore, we have to
boost democracy," Gul also said.

In regard to his visit to the USA, Gul stated he would also have a meal with UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon during his stay in New York and they would discuss
the Cyprus issue, international cooperation in fight against terrorism and
developments in Iraq during their meeting.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0722 gmt 4 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

Data store in case of terror attacks

BYLINE: Jon Austin

SECTION: BASILDON NEWS

LENGTH: 304 words


A HIGH-TECH centre to protect millions of people's bank account details is set
to be created in Basildon.

Plans have been approved for the data recovery centre, which will be a back-up
system for financial firms in case terrorists attack their headquarters in the
capital.

It will be based in a huge distribution centre which is being built on the
former York International site, in Gardiners Lane South. Astral Developments and
Standard Life Investments, which own the site, hope to attract financial
big-hitters from London to the back-up facility.

Chris Firth, of Michael Sparks Associates, agent for the application, said the
system of storing personal information in different locations was more essential
than ever.

He said: "Since 9/11, organisations have looked to keep back-up information at
locations outside the capital.

"Should their main databases in London be destroyed in a terror attack, there
would still be full access to all the information."

Tony Ball, deputy council leader, added: "I sincerely hope that the system never
has to be used, because it would mean more terrorism, but it is encouraging that
more and more big business are willing to invest in the district.

"It was sad when York moved out, but it is great a new development has so
quickly taken its place."

The former York factory is being transformed into a £35million, 315,000 sq ft
distribution centre, called Imperium 315, expected to be finished by the spring.

The back-up centre would be part of the development and manned 24-hours-a-day,
with computer systems on mezzanine floors, and standby generators.

A report with the application said: "The data disaster recover centre provides
real-time back up of computer records some miles from the institution's main
location."

Astral Developments and Standard Life bought the site last year for £11m.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

Data store in case of terror attacks

BYLINE: Jon Austin

SECTION: BASILDON NEWS (BASILDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 304 words


A HIGH-TECH centre to protect millions of people's bank account details is set
to be created in Basildon.

Plans have been approved for the data recovery centre, which will be a back-up
system for financial firms in case terrorists attack their headquarters in the
capital.

It will be based in a huge distribution centre which is being built on the
former York International site, in Gardiners Lane South. Astral Developments and
Standard Life Investments, which own the site, hope to attract financial
big-hitters from London to the back-up facility.

Chris Firth, of Michael Sparks Associates, agent for the application, said the
system of storing personal information in different locations was more essential
than ever.

He said: "Since 9/11, organisations have looked to keep back-up information at
locations outside the capital.

"Should their main databases in London be destroyed in a terror attack, there
would still be full access to all the information."

Tony Ball, deputy council leader, added: "I sincerely hope that the system never
has to be used, because it would mean more terrorism, but it is encouraging that
more and more big business are willing to invest in the district.

"It was sad when York moved out, but it is great a new development has so
quickly taken its place."

The former York factory is being transformed into a £35million, 315,000 sq ft
distribution centre, called Imperium 315, expected to be finished by the spring.

The back-up centre would be part of the development and manned 24-hours-a-day,
with computer systems on mezzanine floors, and standby generators.

A report with the application said: "The data disaster recover centre provides
real-time back up of computer records some miles from the institution's main
location."

Astral Developments and Standard Life bought the site last year for £11m.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 4, 2008

Dog attack postie's terror nightmares

LENGTH: 477 words


A POSTMAN savaged by two dogs in Sheffield is haunted in his nightmares by his
terrifying ordeal.

Paul Coleman, aged 39, suffered terrible injuries to both legs in the 15-minute
attack when a pit bull and Staffie/ Japanese Tosa cross dragged him 15ft down
the road and bit him almost to the bone.

He underwent six hours of surgery following the mauling - first to clean the
wounds, then to take skin grafts from his arms to repair the scarring.

Today the dad-of-two from Richmond, Sheffield, revealed: "The hospital staff
said it was one of the worst attacks they'd seen. It looked like I'd been bitten
by a shark.

"It is lucky I am a big lad - if it had been someone skinnier, or a baby, no way
would they have survived."

Although Paul said physically he was "getting stronger and better every day", he
admitted the damage had gone deeper.

He told The Star: "I am scared for my colleagues doing that round now . This
shouldn't happen to a postman, or a gas man, or someone taking an electricity
meter reading - they are just trying to do their job." Paul, who lives in
Richmond Avenue with his partner Tracy Kelwich, 37, his four-year-old daughter
Grace, and five-month-old son Evan, is still in constant pain and needs crutches
to get upstairs to bed.

"I am not getting to sleep at nights, I am still having dreams about it," he
said. The Staffordshire bull terrier was caught shortly after the attack in
Grimesthorpe on December 18 and put down, but the other dog is still on the
loose.

"If I knew that dog had been destroyed maybe I wouldn't be having these
nightmares," said Paul. "I still know it's out there, and while I do I will be
scared doing my job."

The attack happened in Rothay Road, as Paul delivered mail on the round he has
covered for the past two years.

"There was a car outside one of the houses so I ran behind it - I thought if the
dogs go left, I'll go right," he remembered. "But one went left and the other
went right and then one was on my legs straight away. I tried to shake it off
and I was screaming like a little girl."

Despite help from neighbours - who hit the dogs with weapons including a garden
fork, a metal pole and even a hammer - the attack continued.

Paul said it was only the sound of the police sirens and ambulance that finally
brought the ordeal to an end.

He added: "I stayed awake during it all and I'm glad - if I'd passed out maybe
they would have gone for my throat."

Paul wants to return to work once his injuries have healed - a process doctors
say will take around six to eight weeks.

He spent six days in the trauma unit of the Northern General, and underwent two
major operations. He was unable to see his children for six days until he was
allowed home on Christmas Eve.

The dogs' owner was arrested under the Dangerous Dogs Act and bailed until the
end of January.

What do you think? Add your comment below.

Main news index

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday

Terror attack hero has brain haemorrhage

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 203 words


A Hero of the terror attack on Glasgow Airport is seriously ill after suffering
a brain haemorrhage.

Stephen Clarkson, 41, was admitted to hospital on Sunday after collapsing in
agony at his mother's home.

Mr Clarkson, who tackled failed bomber Kafeel Ahmed during the June attack, has
had an emergency operation and faces more dangerous surgery.

Fellow hero Alex McIlveen, 45, who also attacked Ahmed and has visited Mr
Clarkson in hospital, said: "He's in a really bad way. The doctors had to stop
halfway through because he was having a heart attack."

Mr Clarkson's family spent New Year at his bedside.

Mr Clarkson, of Glasgow, received  awards from Gordon Brown and Alex Salmond. He
was at the airport to pick up his family when terrorists crashed a Jeep loaded
with gas canisters into the terminal.

Fellow airport attack hero John Smeaton said he was "devastated" by the news.

Speaking from his home in Renfrewshire, Mr Smeaton said: "Stephen is such a nice
guy. He doesn't deserve this.

"I've met him a few times, when we've received awards together."

Mr Smeaton became a star overnight after he helped police take on a man who was
in the Jeep. But recently he said he feared that his fame had eclipsed the other
heroes.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday

NATO chief condemns "terrorist attack" in southeastern Turkey

LENGTH: 119 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Brussels, 4 January: NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer condemned the
terrorist attack which was staged in southeastern province of Diyarbakir  -
killing 5 people and injuring 68 others.

NATO Spokesman James Appathurai stated that the Secretary General strongly
condemned the terrorist attack which killed and injured innocent people.

Appathurai stressed that NATO continues to be in solidarity with Turkish people
and government in fight against terrorism.

A blast occurred yesterday while a military service bus was passing on Mimar
Sinan Street in Yenisehir district of Diyarbakir.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1607 gmt 4 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           January 5, 2008, Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Glasgow Airport terror attack hero fights for life

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 179 words


A hero of the terror attack on Glasgow airport is fighting for his life after
suffering a brain haemorrhage, it was reported yesterday.

Stephen Clarkson was admitted to hospital on Sunday after collapsing in agony at
his mother's home.

The 41-year-old, who tackled failed bomber Kafeel Ahmed during the attack on
June 30, has undergone an emergency operation and faces more dangerous surgery.

Fellow hero Alex McIlveen, 45, who also attacked Ahmed and has visited Mr
Clarkson in hospital, told the paper: "He's in a really bad way. The operation
they did at first wasn't a success.

"The doctors had to stop halfway through because he was having a heart attack."

Mr Clarkson, of Penilee, Glasgow, received bravery awards from Gordon Brown and
Alex Salmond.

He was at the airport to pick up his brother, sister-in-law and niece when
terrorists crashed a Jeep loaded with gas canisters into the airport building.

Ahmed, who doused himself in petrol and set himself alight, later died in
hospital from burns.

Fellow airport attack hero John Smeaton said that he was "devastated" by the
news.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday

Terror attack hero facing fight for life;
Man who tackled bomber collapses

BYLINE: Kizzy Taylor

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 373 words


A HERO who battled the Glasgow Airport terror attackers is facing his own
desperate fight for survival.

Stephen Clarkson, who fought the crazed car bombers last summer, was taken to
hospital after he was struck down with a potentially fatal brain haemorrhage.

Medics have already performed one emergency operation but it was unsuccessful
and Mr Clarkson, 41, faces further lifesaving surgery.

One of his four brothers, David, 44, said doctors had to abandon the surgery
half-way through because of 'complications', possibly caused by a heart attack.

He said his parents John, 73, and Helen, 70, were deeply distressed when Stephen
collapsed at their home in Penilee, Glasgow, on Sunday.

He was taken to the city's Southern General Hospital where doctors told his
family he had suffered a burst aneurysm which had left him at risk of brain
damage and stroke. David Clarkson, also of Penilee, added: 'It

SALE came out of the blue - there were no symptoms or warnings. He complained of
pains in his head and neck then, minutes later, he was screaming and collapsed
from the pain.

'He was rushed to hospital and was taken in for an operation the next day.

It didn't work and they are waiting to do another. The neurosurgeon is talking
about opening up his skull.

'We are all hoping for the best. To look at him, you would never know how
seriously ill he is. He is talking and still cracking jokes.' Fellow airport
hero Alex McIlween, who kicked one terrorist so hard he hurt his foot, said:
'He's in a bad way.

'The operation wasn't a success - the doctors had to stop halfway through
because Stephen was having a heart attack. They had to pull the tubes out
because he could have died.

It is all such a shame.' Mr Clarkson, a groundsman, received two bravery awards
after he leapt into action when the terrorists drove a burning Jeep into Glasgow

Airport on June 30. He had arrived to collect his brother, sister-in-law and
niece from a flight when he saw the blazing car burst into the terminal and
terrorist Kafeel Ahmed jump out covered in flames.

Mr Clarkson tackled the burning bomber then waited for police to move in. He
said at the time: 'I took two steps towards him and he never flinched, so I ran
at him and mowed him down. I knew I had to do it.'

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brave: Stephen Clarkson battled bomber Kafeel Ahmed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Threat of terrorist attack forces cancellation of Dakar Rally

BYLINE: Claire Soares

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 545 words


The Dakar Rally, the legendary race across the Sahara which is deemed to be one
of motorsport's toughest and most dangerous competitions, has been cancelled for
the first time in its 30-year history because of security fears.

The Amaury Sport Organisation (ASO), which organises the race, said it took the
last-minute decision following the recent murders of four French tourists in
Mauritania, as well as threats from terrorist groups against the rally itself,
which was due to start in Lisbon today.

"No other decision but the cancellation of the sporting event could be taken,"
the ASO said in a statement last night.

"[We] condemn the terrorist menace that annihilates a year of hard work,
engagement and passion for all the participants." Three gunmen, who police
suspect were linked to al-Qa'ida, shot dead four French tourists in Mauritania
on 24 December as they had a picnic at the roadside near the border with
Senegal. The killings prompted the French government to issue a security warning
to the ASO.

The Dakar Rally, which used to start in Paris but for the past two years has
departed from the Portuguese capital, has a chequered history with plenty of
security headaches.

In 1991, a French driver for the Citroën team was shot dead in Mali in a killing
that appeared to be linked to the conflict between Tuareg rebels and the
national army. In 2000, organisers were forced to halt the race in Niger, in
order to put in place an emergency airlift to neighbouring Libya. Last year,
threats by an al-Qa'ida-affiliated group to kidnap drivers led to two stages of
the race through Mali being axed, including one to the fabled desert town of
Timbuktu. Until now, however, no threat was deemed serious enough to call off
the entire 4,000-mile race.

About 570 teams had registered to take part in this year's event. Their support
vehicles had already set off and the fuel needed to power the cars over the
dunes was sent ahead. "We worked for months and invested lots of money," Andre
Dessoud, the head of the Nissan team, told Reuters news agency. "I don't have a
clue what we're going to do."

Cyril Neveu, a five-times Dakar winner in the motorbike category, acknowledged
the race could have been targeted by terrorists. "It is a big caravan of more
than 3,000 people," he told the French broadcaster I-Tele. "Providing security
from the first to the last competitor is an onerous job. One cannot say there
was zero risk." The cancellation will also hurt the villages and cities which
enjoy an economic windfall from the rally. The head of the hoteliers'
association in Senegal, where the race was due to end on 20 January, said the
losses would run into hundreds of thousands of pounds and the bad publicity
could hurt the country's image as a tourist destination.

Not everyone will mourn the lack of a rally this year, however. Organisers have
been criticised for sending powerful racing cars speeding through the sands and
savannahs of countries where some residents are not made sufficiently aware. In
2006, children in Guinea and Senegal died after being hit by rally vehicles.

Last night, the ASO insisted the rally would return next year. "Cancellation
does not endanger the future of the Dakar," it said. "The Dakar is a symbol and
nothing can destroy symbols."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack hero collapses;
Home News IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 41 words


n A man who tackled one of the failed bombers in the terrorist attack at Glasgow
airport last June is seriously ill after suffering a brain haemorrhage. Stephen
Clarkson, 41, of Penilee, Glasgow, had emergency surgery after collapsing last
Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             January 7, 2008 Monday

Amis takes on terror;
The novelist's attacks on radical Islam are now gathered in one volume but what
do they add up to? BOOK OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: DAVID SEXTON

SECTION: A; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 966 words


The Second Plane: September 11: 1-by Martin Amis (Cape, £1.)

LAST autumn, Martin Amis ran into a good deal of trouble over his swingeing
attacks on "Islamists". His new colleague at Manchester University, Terry
Eagleton, claimed the views he had expressed were "vile", although, in doing so,
he blatantly misdescribed the context in which Amis had made them.

The columnist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown weighed in, arguing that Amis was with "the
Muslim-baiters and haters".

Finally, Ronan Bennett published a long article with the damaging conclusion:
"Amis got away with it. He got away with as odious an outburst of racist
sentiment as any public figure has made in this country for a very long time.

Shame on him for saying it, and shame on us for tolerating it." Now we have this
gathering of Amis's responses to September 11 (as he prefers to call it),
possibly provoked by these rows, since it was announced as a stoppress addition
to the Random House catalogue at the end of last year.

It begins with the quick response to the attack he published in The Guardian on
18 September, 2001, and runs through to an anniversary piece published in The
Times on 11 September last year. It includes book reviews, his scrappy piece of
reportage about following Tony Blair around, and the major essay he published in
The Observer magazine in 2006, called there The Age of Horrorism, now retitled
Terror and Boredom: The Dependent Mind.

There are also two short stories, previously published but not collected, having
been cut from his previous book at the last minute. In the Palace of the End is
about the life of an ever more mutilated double of a son of a Saddam-like
dictator. The Last Days of Mohammed Atta imagines the thought processes of the
pilot of the first plane: he is portrayed by Amis as dreadfully constipated as
well as faithless, interested only in killing, in every way full of shit, then.

Amis has presented all these pieces in chronological order, in order, he says,
to show that our understanding of 11 September is "incremental and can never
hope to be intact and entire". But it doesn't function properly as a document in
that way because he has added to all of them since, he admits.

On the other hand, he maintains: "I have cut nothing, briefly tempting though it
was, at times, to cover my tracks." Alas, it's not true. He has sometimes done
just that. For example, when The Last Days of Mohammed Atta was originally
published, it contained a crass joke about the promise of six dozen virgins
awaiting the holy warriors in paradise having been based upon a mistranslation
of a word meaning "raisins". "They would not be best pleased on their arrival in
the Garden, to find a little black packet of Mermaid Sultanas (average contents
72)". This passage, widely ridiculed at the time, has been silently deleted from
the story as it appears here.

There are other inaccuracies in The Second Plane that damage Amis's case even
more severely. He indignantly tells us: "And this, on July 25, was the
considered response of the Mayor of London to the events of July 7: 'Given that
they don't have jet planes, don't have tanks, they only have their bodies to use
as weapons. In an unfair balance, that's what people use.'" A moment's thought
will suggest that if Ken Livingstone had said that about 7/7, he could not have
continued in office.

But he did not say it about 7/7. He was talking on Sky News about the situation
in Israel, alleging that the violence on both sides there was equivalent and
that Likud and Hamas were "two sides of the same coin".

I don't think myself this was an acceptable thing for Livingstone to say in that
context either and it is part of his shameful, systematic courting of the Muslim
vote in London.

But he simply did not say it in response to the events of 7/7. In order to make
it seem so, Amis has had to misquote him, for Livingstone actually said: "Given
that the Palestinians don't have jet planes..." Amis's misquote was picked up
when it was first published in 2006 yet here it is again, in hard covers. Why?
It's a pity, because Amis's central case, that Islamism is "an ideology which,
in its most millennial form, conjures up the image of an abattoir within a
madhouse", is persuasive enough. But it is expressed here so excessively that it
cannot be taken seriously.

Amis thinks all religion whatsoever is rubbish "Religious belief is without
reason and without dignity, and its record is near-universally dreadful" and
this prevents him from discriminating properly between people of faith, between
moderate Muslims and extreme Islamists.

Then again, all the writing here is so preening, so self-important about its own
vocabulary and phrase-making, that it always draws attention to its own display,
not to the matter in hand. None of the formulae "worldflash of a coming future",
"horrorism", "hemispherical abjection" rings quite right.

Amis trusts to the power of abuse, above analysis, thinking it useful to talk of
"those sanguinary yokels, the Taliban", "the village-idiot vigilantes known as
the Taliban", and so forth. He believes simply that displaying his vocabulary in
runs of synonyms "the bruited, the roared fanaticism" establishes his mastery, a
habit particularly unconvincing in the recurrent use of triplets.

Amis believes that 11 September was an event of such significance as to reduce
any work in progress that novelists may have had to "a blue streak of autistic
babble".

But he has always been a novelist in search of the all-authorising big theme the
nuclear threat, the millennium, the Holocaust, the cosmos and his response to 11
September seems all too consistent with that trait. The Second Plane is in many
ways fascinating but it is, in the end, an object lesson in how a writer should
not respond to events..

MORE BOOK REVIEWS: PAGE

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Day the world changed: rescuers carrya fatally injured New York Fire
Deptchaplain from Ground Zero on  /11

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            January 8, 2008, Tuesday

I THOUGHT TERROR ATTACK WAS SCARY UNTIL MY BRAIN BEGAN BLEEDING;
EXCLUSIVE AIRPORT HERO STEPHEN RECOVERS FROM ORDEAL

BYLINE: By Janice Burns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 472 words


TERROR attack hero Stephen Clarkson admitted last night: "I'm lucky to be
alive."

The 41-year-old, who suffered a brain haemorrhage last week, spoke exclusively
to the Record from his hospital bed.

Groundsman Stephen revealed: "The pain was so bad, I thought I was going to die.

"I thought that what happened at Glasgow Airport was the scariest thing that had
ever happened to me until the day I felt like my head was exploding.

"I have never felt pain like that in my entire life. It was terrifying.

"I felt as vulnerable as a wee baby. At least when I tackled that terrorist at
Glasgow Airport, the adrenaline took over and it was only scary when I thought
about it afterwards.

"But it still doesn't come close to the fear that hit me when my brain
haemorrhaged. I honestly thought it was all over for me."

Stephen, of Penilee, Glasgow, was remarkably upbeat as he waited to find out if
he needed another major brain op at Glasgow's Southern General.

He will have a second scan today before doctors decide on surgery.

Stephen "mowed down" burning bomber Kafeel Ahmed - who later died - with a
forearm smash.

He collapsed in agony at his mother's home last Sunday. He had emergency surgery
but doctors had to stop because of the risk of a heart attack.

Stephen added: "I'm feeling brand new at the moment and really positive about
another operation

"I have already had a scan and the doctors said it was looking good but I've got
to have another one before they decide to operate.

"I know it will be risky but hopefully it will do the trick and I'll be back on
my feet again in no time. I feel remarkably well considering I almost died.

"I know a lot of people don't survive these kind of things and I know I am very
lucky to be alive. I'm going to fight it all the way and hopefully get back on
my feet."

Stephen said: "I had the first terrible headache at my brother's house when I
was on my own. I just thought, 'I'm sitting here myself and I am going to die.'

"I got up and into the car and drove from my brother's in Toll cross to my mum's
in Penilee.

"I went on to autopilot, like I did at Glasgow Airport. I didn't want to die
alone. As soon as I got there, I asked my mum to call an ambulance. I collapsed
two or three times.

"It felt like someone had pushed a crash helmet on my head full of sharp
needles."

Stephen said he was delighted to see fellow airport heroes John Smeaton, Alex
McIlveen and Michael Kerr when they visited him in hospital on Sunday night.

He said: "It is great to have their support. We had a good laugh and it really
raised my spirits."

Stephen insisted there were no hard feelings over John winning the Queen's
Gallantry Medal, while the other heroes received nothing.

He said: "I didn't do what I did at Glasgow Airport for the Queen or Gordon
Brown. I did it for the people who were there and whose lives were at risk."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROAD BACK TO HEALTH: Stephen catches up on the news from his hospital
bed and, inset, the terror attack MARKRUNNNACLES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 8, 2008 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

TERROR ATTACK ON DAILY STAR OF SCOTLAND;
Reporter sent poison

BYLINE: by CRAIG WOODHOUSE

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 26

LENGTH: 295 words


THE Daily Star's Scottish HQ was targeted as part of a terror plot to force the
UK Government out of the country, a court heard yesterday.

Englishman Wayne Cook is alleged to have sent poisonous parcels to a councillor
and a journalist at our sister paper the Scottish Daily Express.

The 45-year-old also threatened to kill English people by poisoning the
country's water supply, Manchester Crown Court was told.

Cook, of Tyldesley, Manchester, is charged with using noxious substances to
cause harm and intimidate.

The unemployed father-of-three is accused of sending miniature bottles of vodka
filled with caustic soda to Blackburn councillor John Wright and Scottish Daily
Express executive news editor Myra Philp on April 25, 2007 as part of a campaign
by the Scottish National Liberation Army.

Paul Taylor, prosecuting, told the court that the caustic soda was strong enough
to have killed someone.

The bottle sent to Councillor Wright was intercepted by sorting office staff.

The second package, to Ms Philp, was accompanied by a letter which read:

"Dear Myra. Exclusive. This bottle is full of lethal caustic soda. Any chemist
will confirm this by a simple test.

"A very large number of similarly poisoned items have just been sent to
political figures all over England. An example is councillor John Wright who
will be getting his at the town hall, King William Street, Blackburn.

Perhaps you might warn him?

"Pity you cannot warn the other targets individually, but we want to demonstrate
our intent to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or
compunction."

Mr Taylor told the court that Ms Philp had been targeted by the SNLA before and
was helping police with an inquiry into their activities. He said:

"They are a terrorist organisation."

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: The Daily Star of Scotland's offices in Glasgow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 8, 2008 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

TERROR ATTACK ON DAILY STAR OF SCOTLAND;
Reporter sent poison

BYLINE: by CRAIG WOODHOUSE

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 26

LENGTH: 295 words


THE Daily Star's Scottish HQ was targeted as part of a terror plot to force the
UK Government out of the country, a court heard yesterday.

Englishman Wayne Cook is alleged to have sent poisonous parcels to a councillor
and a journalist at our sister paper the Scottish Daily Express.

The 45-year-old also threatened to kill English people by poisoning the
country's water supply, Manchester Crown Court was told.

Cook, of Tyldesley, Manchester, is charged with using noxious substances to
cause harm and intimidate.

The unemployed father-of-three is accused of sending miniature bottles of vodka
filled with caustic soda to Blackburn councillor John Wright and Scottish Daily
Express executive news editor Myra Philp on April 25, 2007 as part of a campaign
by the Scottish National Liberation Army.

Paul Taylor, prosecuting, told the court that the caustic soda was strong enough
to have killed someone.

The bottle sent to Councillor Wright was intercepted by sorting office staff.

The second package, to Ms Philp, was accompanied by a letter which read:

"Dear Myra. Exclusive. This bottle is full of lethal caustic soda. Any chemist
will confirm this by a simple test.

"A very large number of similarly poisoned items have just been sent to
political figures all over England. An example is councillor John Wright who
will be getting his at the town hall, King William Street, Blackburn.

Perhaps you might warn him?

"Pity you cannot warn the other targets individually, but we want to demonstrate
our intent to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or
compunction."

Mr Taylor told the court that Ms Philp had been targeted by the SNLA before and
was helping police with an inquiry into their activities. He said:

"They are a terrorist organisation."

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: The Daily Star of Scotland's offices in Glasgow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              This Is Local London

                           January 9, 2008 Wednesday

East London Muslim jailed for planned terror attacks

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 574 words


A BRITISH Muslim who got airport security details from a Southall woman has been
jailed for four-and-a-half years.

Sohail Qureshi, 30, yesterday became the first person to be convicted under new
legislation targeting the preparation of terrorist acts.

Qureshi, who volunteered to fight for jihadist groups linked to Al Qaeda in
Pakistan and Afghanistan, contacted Samina Malik, who worked for WH Smith at
Heathrow Airport and called herself the lyrical terrorist.

Last year, Malik, 23, of Townsend Road, Southall, became the first woman to be
convicted under the Terrorism Act, but was spared jail.

In December, she received a nine month prison sentence, suspended for 18 months,
for one count of possessing an article useful to a person committing, or
preparing an act of terrorism.

Qureshi, from east London, was arrested at Heathrow Airport on November 16,
2006, before boarding a flight to Islamabad, following a joint operation between
the Met's Counter Terrorism Command and the Security Services.

He claimed he was going to visit his family to celebrate Eid. He was carrying
£9,000 in cash, a night-vision scope, two metal batons, two sleeping bags and
two rucksacks as well as a collection of extremist material on CDs and his
computer hard drive.

Before his planned trip to Pakistan, Qureshi had emailed Malik to ask for advice
on getting through security.

He pleaded guilty to preparing for the commission of terrorist acts, possession
of articles for terrorist purposes and possession of articles likely to be
useful to terrorists.

Prosecutor Jonathan Sharp said it was the first conviction under section five of
the Terrorism Act 2006.

Mr Sharp, said: "The initial subject of inquiry was Qureshi. He was planning to
go to Pakistan and Afghanistan to take part in terrorist activities or to
support the actions of others in that area.

"He made contact with Samina Malik in order to find out the state of security at
London Heathrow.

"In doing that he must have known she was in a position to assist him. He must
have known she worked at Heathrow Airport and he must have known that she was a
sympathetic to the extremist cause."

In one email exchange Qureshi asked Malik, who worked airside serving passengers
who had passed through security, for an update on security measures.

He wrote: "Sis, I hope u get this email before anyone else does. Wat is the
situation like at work? Is the checking still very harsh? or have things cooled
down a bit? Bara'Allah feek...Ws wr wb Delete after read!"

Malik replied and provided Qureshi with the latest security measures in place.
She signed off with her pseudonym "Umm Musab al-Gharib - A Stranger Awaiting
Martyrdom Following his arrest, police searched Qureshi's house in Palmerston
Road, Forest Gate, and found material demonstrating his links to terrorism,
including a number of photos of him with assault rifles.

Peter Clarke, assistant commissioner of specialist operations at the Met, said:
"Qureshi is a trained and committed terrorist, who by his own admission had
contacts within Al-Qaeda since the mid-1990's.

"He wanted to carry out terrorist acts overseas and gathered the equipment to
help him do this.

"Although we do not know his exact plans, it is likely that coalition forces,
possibly in Afghanistan, were his intended target. In his own words he hoped to
"kill many".

Mr Clarke added: "He was no amateur. He had a cover story, he researched airport
security, he tried to cover his tracks."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                           January 9, 2008 Wednesday

East London Muslim jailed for planned terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


A BRITISH Muslim who got airport security details from a Southall woman has been
jailed for four-and-a-half years.

Sohail Qureshi, 30, yesterday became the first person to be convicted under new
legislation targeting the preparation of terrorist acts.

Qureshi, who volunteered to fight for jihadist groups linked to Al Qaeda in
Pakistan and Afghanistan, contacted Samina Malik, who worked for WH Smith at
Heathrow Airport and called herself the lyrical terrorist.

Last year, Malik, 23, of Townsend Road, Southall, became the first woman to be
convicted under the Terrorism Act, but was spared jail.

In December, she received a nine month prison sentence, suspended for 18 months,
for one count of possessing an article useful to a person committing, or
preparing an act of terrorism.

Qureshi, from east London, was arrested at Heathrow Airport on November 16,
2006, before boarding a flight to Islamabad, following a joint operation between
the Met's Counter Terrorism Command and the Security Services.

He claimed he was going to visit his family to celebrate Eid. He was carrying
£9,000 in cash, a night-vision scope, two metal batons, two sleeping bags and
two rucksacks as well as a collection of extremist material on CDs and his
computer hard drive.

Before his planned trip to Pakistan, Qureshi had emailed Malik to ask for advice
on getting through security.

He pleaded guilty to preparing for the commission of terrorist acts, possession
of articles for terrorist purposes and possession of articles likely to be
useful to terrorists.

Prosecutor Jonathan Sharp said it was the first conviction under section five of
the Terrorism Act 2006.

Mr Sharp, said: "The initial subject of inquiry was Qureshi. He was planning to
go to Pakistan and Afghanistan to take part in terrorist activities or to
support the actions of others in that area.

"He made contact with Samina Malik in order to find out the state of security at
London Heathrow.

"In doing that he must have known she was in a position to assist him. He must
have known she worked at Heathrow Airport and he must have known that she was a
sympathetic to the extremist cause."

In one email exchange Qureshi asked Malik, who worked airside serving passengers
who had passed through security, for an update on security measures.

He wrote: "Sis, I hope u get this email before anyone else does. Wat is the
situation like at work? Is the checking still very harsh? or have things cooled
down a bit? Bara'Allah feek...Ws wr wb Delete after read!"

Malik replied and provided Qureshi with the latest security measures in place.
She signed off with her pseudonym "Umm Musab al-Gharib - A Stranger Awaiting
Martyrdom Following his arrest, police searched Qureshi's house in Palmerston
Road, Forest Gate, and found material demonstrating his links to terrorism,
including a number of photos of him with assault rifles.

Peter Clarke, assistant commissioner of specialist operations at the Met, said:
"Qureshi is a trained and committed terrorist, who by his own admission had
contacts within Al-Qaeda since the mid-1990's.

"He wanted to carry out terrorist acts overseas and gathered the equipment to
help him do this.

"Although we do not know his exact plans, it is likely that coalition forces,
possibly in Afghanistan, were his intended target. In his own words he hoped to
"kill many".

Mr Clarke added: "He was no amateur. He had a cover story, he researched airport
security, he tried to cover his tracks."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Qureshi was jailed for four-and-a-half years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2008 Friday

Pakistan: Turkey condemns Lahore terrorist attack

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

ISLAMABAD, Jan 11 (APP): Turkish government has expressed its profound grief and
sorrow over the deaths and injuries, mainly of police officers, caused by the
terrorist attack in Lahore on Thursday.

"Turkey deems terrorism a crime against humanity and condemns this heinous
terrorist attack", according to a press statement issued by the Turkish Embassy
here on Friday.

The statement said, the attack is without any doubt aimed at causing disorder
and instability in Pakistan in the run-up to the general elections, to be held
in February.

"We extend our heartfelt condolences to the brotherly people and government of
Pakistan along with our wishes for swift recovery of the injured", the statement
concluded.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1636 gmt
11 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday

Turkish police detain five suspected of planning terror attacks

LENGTH: 67 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Istanbul, 13 January: Turkish police arrested on Saturday [12 January] five
people who allegedly came to Istanbul to stage terrorist attacks in the city.

Five people, who were arrested and sent to the prison, also got training in
camps of terrorist organization, it was reported.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0842 gmt 13 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 14, 2008 Monday

German government says terror attack threat in Beirut "not serious"

LENGTH: 417 words


Excerpt from report by government-funded, editorially independent German
Deutschlandfunk radio on 14 January

After the Lebanese warning against an attack, the German Government has sounded
the all-clear. Interior Ministry spokesman Kalla stated in Berlin that the
security authorities assume that the call received by the German Embassy in
Beirut was not a serious threat. [passage omitted]

[A report by F.A.Z. staff entitled "BKA Confirms New Threat of Attack" published
in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on 14 January says: "Frankfurt, 13 January -
After the arrest of a suspected Al-Qa'idah member in Lebanon, Beirut authorities
have warned of attacks in Germany. The Federal Office of Criminal Investigations
confirmed the warning on the weekend [12-13 January]. Apparently, judicial
authorities and the Federal Justice Ministry were the target of the threats. The
Federal Public Prosecutor's Office initiated preliminary proceedings, but did
not give a statement itself. Reportedly, Germany's successes in combating
terrorism were the reason for the threat.

"The Lebanese police confirmed that this week [7-11 January] the suspect,
Muhammad Naddum, had called the German Embassy in Beirut and expressed threats.
A high-ranking police officer stated that he was arrested on Wednesday night.
According to the report, Naddum confessed to having made the call and to having
links with the terror organization Al-Qa'idah. His links and the motive were the
subject of investigations, said the police spokesman. The Lebanese daily Al
Nahar on Friday reported that Naddum had threatened retaliation for the arrest
of the two 'suitcase bombers' and the participation of the German Bundeswehr
[German Federal Armed Forces] in the UN Lebanon protection force, UNIFIL [United
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon].

"A spokeswoman for the Federal Office of Criminal Investigations said that there
had been a warning from Lebanon, which was passed on to the authorities
concerned. The Federal Justice Ministry did not comment on the investigations. A
spokeswoman for the ministry said upon request that they were aware of the
incident. Measures had been taken to guarantee the security of the staff.
According to a report by the newsmagazine Der Spiegel, a truck loaded with up to
one ton of explosives is said to be on its way to Rostock via Russia and
Finland. [passage omitted]"]

Source: Deutschlandfunk radio, Cologne, in German 1200 gmt 14 Jan 08;
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Frankfurt/Main, in German 14 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           January 15, 2008, Tuesday

Severe stress reactions to the 9/11 terror attacks were more likely to cause
heart problems over the next three years

SECTION: FEATURES; Public Agenda; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 68 words


People who experienced severe stress reactions to the 9/11 terror attacks appear
more likely to have suffered heart problems in the ensuing three years, say
investigators from the University of California, Irvine, in the Archives of
General Psychiatry (Jan). The pan-America sample of 2,729 adults says that acute
stress responses were associated with a 53 per cent increased risk of
cardiovascular ailments.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          January 16, 2008, Wednesday

AMMONIA ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 99 words


TWO thieves sprayed ammonia in a jeweller's face and repeatedly punched her
during a raid.

They then ignored diamonds to steal TechnoMarine watches that are popular with
footballers.

The men, aged between 18 and 21, struck at the Diamond Studio in Glasgow's
Argyll Arcade on Monday at 4.30pm and escaped with a haul worth five figures.

Jeweller Summera Shaheen, 43, of Newton Mearns, Glasgow, was treated for eye
injuries.

Neighbouring store owner Craig Alexander said: "I'm sure these guys were just
neds who wanted these footballer watches.

"If they were professionals, they'd have taken the diamonds."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday

Libya must pay $6bn over terror attack on plane

SECTION: A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 125 words


A JUDGE in Washington has ordered Libya and six of its officials to pay more
than $6 billion (£3 billion) to the families of seven Americans killed in a 1989
airliner bombing.

A total of 170 people died when a suitcase bomb exploded on UTA Flight 772 over
Niger. The French airliner had been flying from N'djamena in Chad to Paris.
France convicted six Libyans in absentia. In 2004 Libya agreed to pay European
and African victims millions of dollars in compensation.

Yesterday US District Judge Henry Kennedy outlined the compensation for American
families after a trial.

Libya has until 25 February to appeal.

It has ended decades of isolation after halting nuclear arms development and
paying damages for the 1988 Lockerbie bombing, which killed 270..

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday

China "shocked" by terrorist attack in Afghan capital - spokesman

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China "Shocked" by Terrorist Attack in Afghanistan: Spokeswoman" - Xinhua
headline]

Beijing, Jan. 17 (Xinhua) - China was "shocked" by the terrorist attack against
Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere and his delegation, which killed
one person, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu.

Foreign Affairs Minister Yang Jiechi has sent a telegraph to Stoere expressing
condolences for the victim, Yang told a regular press conference here on
Thursday.

Jiang said Yang also extended sympathy for Stoere, the injured and their
families.

China strongly condemns and firmly opposes any form of terrorism and is willing
to work with the international community towards world peace and stability, said
Jiang.

A Norwegian delegation headed by Stoere was hit by a terrorist attack on Monday
at a luxury hotel in the Afghan capital, Kabul. The foreign minister avoided
injury. But a Norwegian journalist was killed and an employee of Norway's
Foreign Ministry was seriously wounded.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1009 gmt 17 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                           January 17, 2008, Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Businesses offered terror attack advice

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 163 words


TERRORISM experts are giving classes to city businesses on dealing with bomb
attacks.

Around 60 firms have undergone the specialist training, which uses a DVD showing
a "bomb blast" at a shopping centre.

Chief Inspector Amanda McGrath, who is spending a year on secondment with
Edinburgh's business community, has been working on contingency plans for coping
with a potential attack.

She said: "The DVD takes people through the bombing of a shopping centre in an
urban area and asks how they would deal with it. There are no right answers, it
just encourages them to think about the scenario and allows them to draw up
plans."

The classes also include advice on boarding up broken windows and safely
evacuating staff and customers.

Graham Bell, spokesman for Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce, said: "We were perhaps
guilty in the past of seeing terrorism as a remote issue which wouldn't directly
affect us. But, particularly after the Glasgow Airport attack, it was shown that
it can."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday

Family tell of arson attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 176 words


A couple who escaped an arson attack have spoken out about their ordeal.

Leighton Fisher (34), his partner Rachel Peterson (22) and their two-year-old
daughter Sophie were led to safety by firefighters after two wheelie bins was
set on fire outside their flat.

Noxious fumes and smoke from the bins that were at the bottom of a stairwell
crept up the stairs into the flat.

All three occupants were rescued, taken to hospital and discharged after being
checked over.

They are now staying with relatives until the council flat in St Hugh Street,
off Monks Road, Lincoln, is cleaned and the gas, electricity and water supply
are restored.

But the couple say they are uneasy about returning to the place where someone's
stupidity could have cost them their lives.

"Every time I try to sleep I see the flames on the stairs," said Mr Fisher.

"I don't want to go back there but in many ways I'm more determined to because
it's our home and whoever is responsible should not be able to dictate that we
shouldn't live there."

For the full story see Thursday's Lincolnshire Echo.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

TERRORIST BLAMED GOVT FOR DEATH;
Attacker's son died in care

BYLINE: by CAROLYN ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 396 words


A BITTER father who became a terrorist because he blamed the authorities for the
death of his 13year-old son was facing jail last night.

Wayne Cook, 45, joined a Scottish separatist gang in the North of England after
losing his teenage son Shane in a joyriding crash.

The divorced father-of-three had been brooding over the death of his son in
2003, because the youngster had been in council care at the time.

As his hatred of the authorities intensified, Cook joined the Scottish National
Liberation Army and took part in a terror campaign that threatened to poison
thousands of people, including a journalist working at the Star's Scottish HQ.

He sent one miniature bottle of vodka laced with caustic soda to a Labour
politician on the Lancashire council he blamed for his son's death.

With it was a note that said:

"Congratulations on the Labour victory have a drink on me." Cook also sent
another note with one of the packages to Scottish Daily Express executive news
editor Myra Philp, 45, boasting of a previous attack and threatening to poison
water supplies throughout England unless the British Government withdraw from
Scotland.

The packages, enough to kill, were sent on the same day last April, but postal
workers got to one before it reached Councillor John Wright.

The other reached the Star headquarters in Glasgow, but Ms Philp became
suspicious and called police.

Yesterday, at Manchester Crown Court, Cook of Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, was
found guilty of two charges.

Steven Kerr Robinson, 42, also of Tyldesley, pleaded guilty to two offences,
also under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001.

Ms Philp said: "Sending lethal chemicals in the post was an act of pure
cowardice.

"The potential for the bottles to have broken in transit was high and could have
left Royal Mail employees, or my colleagues dead or maimed.

"There were dozens of threats sent to me over a period of months, all of them
centred on the Manchester, Bolton and Liverpool areas.

"There was even a cynical claim that the SNLA had caused the Cumbrian train
derailment which left a passenger dead." Detective Chief Superintendent Tony
Porter, head of Greater Manchester Police Counter Terrorism Unit said:

"Be in no doubt, these men are terrorists. This was not some clumsy joke. It was
a serious attempt to cause real harm and intimidation." The case was adjourned
until today for sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POISON LETTER: Wayne Cook, left, blamed the council for his son's death
and joined terror group the SNLA
GUILTY: Steven Robinson
DEADLY MESSAGE: Minatures of caustic soda were sent to a councillor and Ms
Philp, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

TERRORIST BLAMED GOVT FOR DEATH;
Attacker's son died in care

BYLINE: by CAROLYN ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 396 words


A BITTER father who became a terrorist because he blamed the authorities for the
death of his 13year-old son was facing jail last night.

Wayne Cook, 45, joined a Scottish separatist gang in the North of England after
losing his teenage son Shane in a joyriding crash.

The divorced father-of-three had been brooding over the death of his son in
2003, because the youngster had been in council care at the time.

As his hatred of the authorities intensified, Cook joined the Scottish National
Liberation Army and took part in a terror campaign that threatened to poison
thousands of people, including a journalist working at the Star's Scottish HQ.

He sent one miniature bottle of vodka laced with caustic soda to a Labour
politician on the Lancashire council he blamed for his son's death.

With it was a note that said:

"Congratulations on the Labour victory have a drink on me." Cook also sent
another note with one of the packages to Scottish Daily Express executive news
editor Myra Philp, 45, boasting of a previous attack and threatening to poison
water supplies throughout England unless the British Government withdraw from
Scotland.

The packages, enough to kill, were sent on the same day last April, but postal
workers got to one before it reached Councillor John Wright.

The other reached the Star headquarters in Glasgow, but Ms Philp became
suspicious and called police.

Yesterday, at Manchester Crown Court, Cook of Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, was
found guilty of two charges.

Steven Kerr Robinson, 42, also of Tyldesley, pleaded guilty to two offences,
also under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001.

Ms Philp said: "Sending lethal chemicals in the post was an act of pure
cowardice.

"The potential for the bottles to have broken in transit was high and could have
left Royal Mail employees, or my colleagues dead or maimed.

"There were dozens of threats sent to me over a period of months, all of them
centred on the Manchester, Bolton and Liverpool areas.

"There was even a cynical claim that the SNLA had caused the Cumbrian train
derailment which left a passenger dead." Detective Chief Superintendent Tony
Porter, head of Greater Manchester Police Counter Terrorism Unit said:

"Be in no doubt, these men are terrorists. This was not some clumsy joke. It was
a serious attempt to cause real harm and intimidation." The case was adjourned
until today for sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POISON LETTER: Wayne Cook, left, blamed the council for his son's death
and joined terror group the SNLA
GUILTY: Steven Robinson
DEADLY MESSAGE: Minatures of caustic soda were sent to a councillor and Ms
Philp, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            January 18, 2008 Friday

Window cleaner's terror attack

BYLINE: Sally Henfield

SECTION: BLACKBURN (BLACKBURN)

LENGTH: 502 words


A WINDOW cleaner had his teeth kicked out by yobs who punched him to the ground
as he walked home with a chip supper for his girlfriend.

The four teenaged robbers also left Iain Dewhurst with cracked ribs after
attacking him for just £10 - which they used to buy a takeaway of their own.

The 47-year-old was left unable to work for several months after the attack in
Blackburn on November 30 2006 and had to pay out over £700 to have his teeth
replaced.

He relived the horrific attack as his four attackers pleaded guilty to robbery
at Preston Crown Court.

After the case, Det Con Lee Eckersley of Lancashire Police, said: "This was a
horrific and completely unprovoked attack.

"As soon as these people saw Iain, the plan was made to attack him and take
whatever property he had on him."

Mr Dewhurst, a self employed window cleaner who lives off Preston New Road,
said: "I didn't see them coming at me. They just jumped me from behind and I was
punched to the ground. They were kicking and punching me, asking for money. I
only had a tenner on me.

"It has cost me financially, because I have had to pay for my own dental work,
but there have been other effects. I don't go out after dark unless I am in my
car and my partner worries about me until I get home."

Mr Dewhurst had bought supper for himself and his partner and was walking down
Granville Road when he noticed a group of young men nearby.

"They were standing on opposite sides of the road, almost like they were
surrounding me to round me up," said Mr Dewhurst.

"They were winking at each other from across the street.

"I didn't do anything because you can't just accuse people of being up to
something because they are out on the street.

"Then they attacked me."

Mr Dewhurst, who is also a full time carer for his disabled partner, had been
the victim of an attempted robbery less than two weeks before the attack.

He said: "I just thought 'Oh no not again.' A gang had come after me after I
left a cash machine near Silas Road but fortunately someone disturbed them and
they ran off.

"I think they were watching and targeting people."

Mr Dewhurst's injuries forced him to take time of work and he could only eat
soft food and drink threw a straw for weeks afterwards.

He said: "I couldn't go to work as I couldn't lift the ladders onto the roof of
my car because my ribs hurt so much.

"My face was all bruised so I couldn't really present myself to customers like
that."

Two teenagers, aged 16 and who cannot be named for legal reasons, a 17-year-old,
who cannot be named, and Yasin Ali, 18, Preston New Road, Blackburn, all pleaded
guilty to the offence after they were caught on CCTV.

They will be sentenced next week.

DC Eckersley, of Lancashire Police, added: "Not only did Iain physically suffer
the intense pain of the assault but due to the damage done to his back by the
constant kicks this has forced him off work for several months and has had an
impact on him financially.

"This coupled with caring for his disabled partner must have put a huge strain
on him."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: NORTH EAST

                      January 18, 2008 Friday 1:31 PM BST

TERRORIST JAIL ATTACK CASE DROPPED

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 268 words


The case against a Sunderland prisoner charged with throwing boiling oil over
one of the country's most dangerous terrorists in a jail attack has been
discontinued.

Dhiren Barot needed a week of secret hospital treatment after he received severe
burns at the high-security Frankland Prison in Durham last July.

Police called for a news blackout during his stay at Newcastle's Royal Victoria
Infirmary amid fears the convicted al-Qaeda plotter would be sprung from his bed
or attacked.

Barot, 35, was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning
to plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America.

After the attack, Sunderland mugger Gary Moody, serving life for attacking
students, was charged with wounding and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

But this week the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said the case was discontinued
because the terrorist wanted the matter dropped.

A CPS spokesman said: ``The case has been discontinued as there is not enough
evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. Following a police
investigation, a full file of evidence was submitted to the Crown Prosecution
Service.

``The Crown Prosecutor dealing with the case considered that there were some
gaps in the evidence and that a further statement was required from the injured
party.

``The injured party declined to provide a further statement and also stated that
he did not wish the prosecution to proceed.

``The Crown Prosecutor concluded that, without a further statement, there was
not enough evidence to prosecute the case.'' end

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                      January 18, 2008 Friday 1:31 PM BST

TERRORIST JAIL ATTACK CASE DROPPED

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 268 words


The case against a Sunderland prisoner charged with throwing boiling oil over
one of the country's most dangerous terrorists in a jail attack has been
discontinued.

Dhiren Barot needed a week of secret hospital treatment after he received severe
burns at the high-security Frankland Prison in Durham last July.

Police called for a news blackout during his stay at Newcastle's Royal Victoria
Infirmary amid fears the convicted al-Qaeda plotter would be sprung from his bed
or attacked.

Barot, 35, was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning
to plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America.

After the attack, Sunderland mugger Gary Moody, serving life for attacking
students, was charged with wounding and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

But this week the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said the case was discontinued
because the terrorist wanted the matter dropped.

A CPS spokesman said: ``The case has been discontinued as there is not enough
evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. Following a police
investigation, a full file of evidence was submitted to the Crown Prosecution
Service.

``The Crown Prosecutor dealing with the case considered that there were some
gaps in the evidence and that a further statement was required from the injured
party.

``The injured party declined to provide a further statement and also stated that
he did not wish the prosecution to proceed.

``The Crown Prosecutor concluded that, without a further statement, there was
not enough evidence to prosecute the case.'' end

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                January 18, 2008

Al-Qaida terrorist attack case dropped

LENGTH: 339  words


The court case against a Sunderland man accused of scalding an al-Qaida
terrorist in prison has been dropped.

Gary Lee Moody faced two counts of assaulting Eesa "Dhiren" Barot - once
described by security sources as the second-most dangerous man in Britain.

It had been alleged he threw boiling liquid over Barot while they were inmates
at Durham's top-security Frankland Prison, on July 13 last year.

The 22-year-old, from Millfield, was due before Newcastle Crown Court yesterday
for a plea and directions hearing on charges of causing grievous bodily harm
with intent and assault occasioning actual bodily harm, but the case was
withdrawn due to lack of evidence.

The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said Barot had refused to co-operate when
Durham Police were asked to speak to him again by lawyers, and the 36-year-old
wanted the prosecution dropped.

A CPS spokeswoman said: "Following a full police investigation, a full file of
evidence was submitted to the Crown Prosecution Service.

"The Crown Prosecutor dealing with the case considered that there were some gaps
in the evidence and a further statement was required form the injured party.

"He declined to make a further statement and stated that he did not wish the
prosecution to proceed.

"The Crown Prosecutor concluded that, without a further statement, there was not
enough evidence to prosecute the case."

Moody, who has been transferred to Whitemoor jail, Cambridgeshire, was jailed
for life in October 2005 for robbing Sunderland students at knifepoint.

He lay in wait outside The Forge halls of residence, in Pallion, and pounced on
three freshers in just seven days.

Barot, from London, was the leader of a terrorist cell which vowed to murder
thousands in Britain and the U.S. The Indian-born Muslim plotted to flood the
London Underground, drive limousines with explosives into the New York Stock
Exchange, and considered using radioactive dirty bombs.

He was jailed for life after pleading guilty to conspiracy to murder, which was
reduced to 30 years at the Court of Appeal.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

Slovene EU presidency condemns "terror" attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report in English by Slovene news agency STA

Ljubljana, 19 January (STA) - The Slovene EU presidency has condemned an attack
on European tourists in Yemen in a press release on Saturday [19 January].
Friday's incident left two Belgian citizens and their driver dead.

The attack on the convoy of tourists in Wadi Do'an in the Wadi Hadramaut region
of Yemen left two Belgian citizens dead and four injured. The Yemeni driver of
the vehicle was also killed in the attack blamed on Al-Qa'idah.

The Slovenian presidency condemned all forms of terrorism and called on the
Yemeni government to bring the perpetrators of the crime to justice.

Source: STA news agency, Ljubljana, in English 1108 gmt 19 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

Terroristoil Attackcase Is Dropped

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 277 words


THE case against a prisoner charged with throwing boiling oil over one of the
country's most dangerous terrorists in a jail attack has been discontinued.

Dhiren Barot needed a week of secret hospital treatment after he received severe
burns at the high-security Frankland Prison in Durham last July.

Police called for a news blackout during his stay at Newcastle's Royal Victoria
Infirmary amid fears the convicted al Qaida plotter would be sprung from his
bed, or attacked.

Barot, 35, was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 30 years, for planning
to plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America.

After the attack, Sunderland mugger Gary Moody, serving life for attacking
students, was charged with wounding and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

But this week the Crown Prosecution Service said the case was discontinued
because the terrorist wanted the matter dropped.

A CPS spokesman said: "The case has been discontinued as there is not enough
evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction.

"Following a police investigation, a full file of evidence was submitted to the
Crown Prosecution Service.

"The Crown Prosecutor dealing with the case considered that there were some gaps
in the evidence and that a further statement was required from the injured
party.

"The injured party declined to provide a further statement and also stated that
he did not wish the prosecution to proceed.

"The Crown Prosecutor concluded that, without a further statement, there was not
enough evidence to prosecute."

Moody, formerly of Gillhurst Grange, Millfield, Sunderland, was jailed for life
in 2005.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 21, 2008 Monday

Siberian transport facilities seen as vulnerable to terrorist attack

LENGTH: 433 words


Text of report by Russian newspaper Gazeta, owned by metals magnate Vladimir
Lisin, on 18 January

[Report by Mikhail Marchuk: "No Compulsory Stopping. Many Transport Facilities
in Siberia Are Open to Terrorists"]

Novosibirsk - Siberian transport sector workers take a highly flippant attitude
to possible attacks by terrorists. This is the conclusion reached by the
regional transport prosecutor's office after bringing to light during checks
many violations of the security regulations in local airports and at railroad
facilities.

Oksana Gorbunova, senior assistant to the West Siberian transport prosecutor for
cooperation with the media, told Gazeta Thursday [ 17 January] that checks were
carried out during 2007 at all transport facilities in Novosibirsk, Tomsk, Omsk,
and Kemerovo regions, Krasnoyarsk and Altay Territories, as well as the
Khakassia and Altay Republics. "The level of antiterrorist protection of
individual facilities does not meet the demands being made at all," Gorbunova
pointed out.

In the airports of Tomsk and Novosibirsk outsiders were found to have penetrated
official premises, in Kemerovo's airport the fences do not meet the technical
parameters with regard to height, the checkpoints in Krasnoyarsk Kray airports
are not equipped with devices for the compulsory stopping of means of transport,
and Barnaul Airport's checkpoints lack video monitoring and recording systems.

A check showed that the situation is no better at railroad facilities. It was
established that practically anyone who so wishes can get into zones of
increased danger at several substations, including the one that supplies the
Krasnoyarsk Railroad with electricity.

Prosecutor's office spokesmen ascribe the negligence of employees at transport
facilities to the fact that Siberia is a long way from Moscow and the Caucasus
and there has not yet been a single major terrorist act here. This year the
prosecutor's office intends to monitor the fulfilment of the instructions that
have been issued to eliminate violations.

Not all transport officials have acknowledged the fairness of the criticism.
People at Novosibirsk's Tolmachevo Airport were surprised at the prosecutor's
office statement. "Considering that our airport is one of the five largest in
Russia, all antiterrorist security measures have been taken in full and great
attention is devoted to this issue," Airport Press Secretary Olga Kochetova told
Gazeta's correspondent. She added that she had learned of the prosecutor's
office's complaints against the airport only from media reports.

Source: Gazeta, Moscow, in Russian 18 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday

German security services warn of Muslim terror attacks on Jewish facilities

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by centrist weekly German news magazine Focus on 21 January

[Report by "cth/huf": "Fear for Jewish Centres"]

The State Security Service of the police has warned the Jewish Community in
Berlin of attacks by Muslim terrorists. On Friday the week before last [ 11
January] Israel's Embassy, too, was informed about allegedly advanced
preparations for attacks.

The basis of the alarm reports was information obtained by the Federal Office of
Criminal Investigations (BKA) from its informers. Subsequently, tightened
security measures led to the arrest of four Arabs, who reportedly spied on
several objects in the Berlin-Mitte district. Three of the suspects were
released soon afterwards, the fourth man remained in prison because of other
crimes.

The theft of a Bundeswehr minibus from a workshop near Berlin put additional
pressure on the authorities. State Security officials feared that the car might
be turned into a rolling bomb.

According to sources, a large amount of explosives has already been brought into
the country. The minibus was found several days later - the license plates had
been removed.

Source: Focus, Munich, in German 21 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday

Police to probe dog attack terror

BYLINE: Craig Evry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: Wiltshire Times


POLICE have launched an investigation after a dog walker was attacked by an
American bulldog.

Dawn Griffiths, 44, of Pitman Avenue in Trowbridge, was walking her 16-week old
Westie, Poppy, in Southwick Country Park at about 10am on Sunday when she was
attacked.

Miss Griffiths told the Wiltshire Times she was on her regular morning walk with
Poppy when a collie attacked the puppy, leaving her screeching in pain.

As she bent down to rescue Poppy, a second dog, an American bulldog, took hold
of her upper arm in its mouth and bit down hard causing puncture wounds and
bruising, despite the fact she was wearing a thick jumper and coat.

The attack has left Miss Griffiths, an employee at Virgin Mobile in Trowbridge,
terrified of taking Poppy out alone.

Describing the morning's events she said: "It all happened so fast.

"The collie attacked Poppy and she was screaming her head off. I picked her up
quick as a flash.

"The next thing I know I have got this American bulldog clamped on my arm and it
wouldn't let go.

"I thought keep clam, don't shout, don't panic'.

"There was no provocation at all. My puppy wasn't barking. It was so quick -
that's the scary thing about it.

"I'm terrified when I take her out in the morning now. I hover around people I
know."

Miss Griffiths said she contacted police in Trowbridge because she didn't want
the same thing to happen to anyone else, especially as a lot of children use the
country park to walk their pet dogs.

"I love dogs but what is the point of having a dog like that? You have a time
bomb in your hands," she said.

"I could have had my seven-year-old nephew with me as he usually comes out on
the weekend. Thank God he had gone away."

Miss Griffiths said the two women walking the dogs involved, along with two
others, walked off after the incident.

"I was just glad to get away from the dogs. I walked back to the entrance where
several people were gathered," she said.

"There were some very nice people who witnessed it and gave me a bit of
comfort."

Wiltshire Police confirmed it had received a complaint about a dog attack at the
country park. Officers are due to call on Miss Griffiths to take a statement.

If you were a witness to the incident call Trowbridge police on 0845 408 7000.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dawn Griffiths shows her injuries

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

Fear grips Donegal town after terrorist gun attack

BYLINE: George Jackson

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 400 words


A DISSIDENT republican paramilitary group carried out a vicious gun attack in
the Co. Donegal village of St Johnston on Tuesday night, shooting a man in both
legs, gardaí believe.

The victim, who is believed to come from the Castlefin area, was in a house at
Carrickmore on the outskirts of St Johnston when three masked men burst into the
building.

Two of the thugs were armed with handguns and the other was wielding a pick axe.

They singled out the victim, believed to be in his forties, and shot him in both
legs.

The thugs are believed to be members of a paramilitary group operating in the
Strabane, Co. Tyrone area.

It is also believed that the group has links to a local criminal gang.

Two other men and a woman who were in the house at the time of the attack were
not injured.

But gardaí said that they all had been been traumatised by the terrifying
incident.

The wounded man was taken to Letterkenny General Hospital where his condition
was said to be comfortable.

The victims car, a white Cavalier, was used as a getaway vehicle by the gang. It
was later found burnt out in Lifford, Co. Donegal, close to the border with
Strabane. Garda Inspector David Murphy said the investigation into the shooting
was at an early stage and that several lines of inquiry were being examined.

We have an open mind at the moment and our technical and forensic examinations
of the scene are continuing, he said.

I would not like to put any particular label or tag on the shooting other than
to say it was a very serious shooting incident in which a man was unfortunately
injured.

It is too early to say where the perpetrators of this crime are likely to have
come from but this incident is not indicative of an increased level of gun crime
in Donegal.

Inspector Murphy added: There were three other people in the house at the time
and they have been very traumatised by what has happened.

We will be interviewing them to see what we can learn from their observations.

Meanwhile, Sinn Féin County Councillor Tony McDaid from Lifford said the
shooting was the third of its kind in the area in the last 18 months.

It is vigilantism and it only ignites fear in the community, Mr McDaid said.

I have been saying for some time that extra gardaí must be deployed into the
rural areas.

We have held a number of public meetings in the area at which people demanded
accountable policing. This violent incident only adds to peoples fears.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vigilantism: Garda on duty outside the house in Carrickmore where a man
was shot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

BOY'S ABDUCTION TERROR;
MARTIN, 13: ARE YOU GOING TO HURT ME? ATTACKER: WE'LL SEE..

BYLINE: BY LAURA ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 342 words


A SCHOOLBOY dragged from the street in a horror abduction begged his attacker
not to kill him.

Martin Scullion, 13, was pinned to the ground and tied up with cables, before
being pulled into a darkened house and threatened by a stranger.

And as the bruised youngster lay sobbing on the floor, his abductor callously
snapped pictures of him on a mobile phone.

Martin, from Bunratty Drive, Coolock, Dublin, has told of how the ordeal left
him fearing for his life.

He said: "I was very scared. He was talking about priests and Russia. I asked
was I going to die and he said, 'No'.

"Then I asked him was I going to get hurt and he said, 'We'll see' which made me
really afraid."

The attack took place on Ferrycarrig Road, Dublin, where Martin was playing with
friends on Tuesday evening.

But their games were called to a halt when a stranger approached the group and
began chasing Martin.

The traumatised boy said: "He slammed me into a wall before knocking me down and
kneeling on me while he tied my hands behind my back with cable ties."

The man then pulled Martin into his house and used a mobile phone to take
pictures of him lying on the floor, before leaving him alone in the dark.

Meanwhile, horrified onlookers alerted gardai.

The ordeal came to an end an hour later when Martin's attacker called gardai and
told officers where to find him.

Anxious dad Charles said he was terrified by what could have happened to his
son, and could not understand why the man waited 45 minutes before contacting
gardai.

Charles said: "In the Garda station I demanded Martin be brought to Temple
Street Hospital before any statements were given. My first priority was for his
health."

Gardai are probing the suspected abduction.

A Garda press office spokesman said: "There is a man helping gardai with
inquiries in relation to a minor assault in Coolock.

"However, as the investigation is still under way we have no further information
at this point."

He slammed me into a wall before knocking me down and kneeling on me while he
tied up my hands

- MARTIN SCULLION

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUISES: Charles Scullion with son Martin yesterday showing off marks
from his ordeal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     January 24, 2008 Thursday 5:18 PM BST

HOME SECRETARY UNDER ATTACK FOR TERROR DETENTION PLANS

BYLINE: David Barrett, PA Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2018 words


Home Secretary Jacqui Smith was accused of undermining the fight against
terrorism tonight after she published plans to extend the detention period for
terror suspects.

Both the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats - in a far cry from the
political consensus ministers originally pledged to seek - said her plans risked
alienating Muslims and driving people to terrorism.

Ms Smith said she was still hopeful of winning cross-party agreement on the need
to increase the pre-charge questioning limit from 28 days to 42.

She added that she would get the legislation passed despite the threat of a
backbench rebellion.

Asked what flashpoints would arise in the Bill's passage through Parliament, Ms
Smith said: ``I think that we will get this legislation on to the Statute Book.
I don't envisage flashpoints as such.''

Also unveiled in a new Counter Terrorism Bill were plans for a criminal offence
of ``communicating, publishing or eliciting'' information about service
personnel.

Gathering details about members of the armed forces will carry up to 10 years'
imprisonment if there was suspicion of a plot to place them in danger.

The issue of pre-charge detention led to Tony Blair's first defeat in the
Commons in November 2005, when he sought a 90-day limit.

A survey of Labour MPs by the Independent newspaper last month indicated that
enough Labour MPs would vote against the new 42-day proposals for a Government
defeat in the Commons.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said: ``Last week, Jacqui Smith rightly
highlighted the danger of radicalisation.

``Today, her fixation with extending pre-charge detention risks serving as a
recruiting sergeant for terrorism.''

He added: ``The Government has not been able to present a shred of evidence to
justify extending pre-charge detention, and there is now a range of evidence
pointing the other way.''

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: ``The obsession with 42 days is
undermining, not supporting, the battle against terrorism.

``Ministers are taking their reliance on hypothetical examples to new lengths as
they attempt to cover up for the complete lack of genuine evidence for such a
move.

``Gordon Brown himself says that the key objective in combating terrorism is
winning over hearts and minds.

``How can he possibly then justify a measure like extending pre-charge detention
which will do so much to alienate people?''

Director of human rights group Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, urged the Government
to drop the policy.

``Despite ministerial promises of exceptional circumstances and so-called
safeguards, the reality of this Bill is an on-off button for six weeks detention
without charge,'' she said.

But Association of Chief Police Officers president Ken Jones said: ``Many of
these proposals have been called for by Acpo and recognise the pressing need to
take into account the complexities of gathering evidence, which in terrorist
cases often involving a multiplicity of languages and identities along with the
forensic analysis of huge amounts of information, are placing unprecedented
demands on investigators.

``The debate which has focused around the issue of pre-charge detention is
essential, because of the increasing likelihood in these circumstances of the
current limit of 28 days proving insufficient in the future.

``Acpo has consistently argued that appropriate safeguards in legislation should
seek to build a consensus among communities and strike a balance between
individual liberties and security.

``These issues are now a matter for Parliament and the wider public to consider
and debate.''

Another new measure in the Bill was to make it a crime for charity workers and
other volunteers to fail to disclose information about suspected terror
financing.

Other moves - all of which have been extensively discussed ahead of publication
- included:

Allowing police to question terror suspects after they have been charged;

Closing a loophole which currently prevents police from sharing fingerprints or
DNA samples taken from terrorist suspects held under control orders;

Introducing a new scheme - based on the sex offenders register - which will
force terror suspects jailed for 12 months or more to keep police informed about
their home address and other details on release;

Moves to force coroners to hear terror-related inquests without a jury if the
hearing will involve material which might affect national security, and for the
coroner to have access to telephone tap material and other ``intercept''
evidence in ``exceptional circumstances'';

Requiring gas companies to pay for all or part of any extra policing deemed
necessary at gas facilities.

Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen said: ``When the time comes to
vote, we feel that MPs should draw a line in the sand on this issue, once and
for all.

``The Government cannot keep chipping away at people's rights without them
eventually becoming severely diminished.

``Locking someone up for six weeks is punishment without a court deciding the
law has been broken.''

Under Ms Smith's proposals:

The Home Secretary will be able to immediately extend the limit to 42 days if a
joint report by a Chief Constable and the Director of Public Prosecutions backs
the move;

The Commons and the Lords will have to approve the extension within 30 days;

If either House votes against the move, the power comes to an end at midnight on
the day of the debate;

The new limit will only be available to police for two months unless it is
renewed;

Parliament could be recalled from summer recess if a vote was required on an
extension;

Individual detentions over 28 days would need to be approved by a judge at least
every seven days.

However, the way the proposed system is set up could mean suspects being held
for 42 days even if Parliament eventually refused permission.

Such a scenario could arise if the Home Secretary only decided to extend the
limit towards the end of the existing 28-day slot, because Parliament is only
required to vote within 30 days.

In that time, a suspect could already have been charged or released without
charge.

Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen said: ``When the time comes to
vote, we feel that MPs should draw a line in the sand on this issue, once and
for all.

``The Government cannot keep chipping away at people's rights without them
eventually becoming severely diminished.

``Locking someone up for six weeks is punishment without a court deciding the
law has been broken.''

She added: ``Once we start using oppressive laws, counter-terrorism methods can
soon take on the appearance of persecution.

``There is a lot of talk about winning 'hearts and minds' in the fight against
terrorism.

``But if pre-charge detention limits are raised once again, the communities
likely to be most affected are going to see the Government's words as very
hollow.''

Eric Metcalfe, of human rights and law reform group Justice, said: ``Scrutiny is
no safeguard when there's no evidence to scrutinise.

``Nor can scrutiny prevent the injustice of being held without evidence for 42
days.

``Phoney safeguards and a lack of evidence are no way to fight terrorism.''

Last November there were red faces in the Home Office when Security Minister
Lord West said he was not convinced that more time was necessary.

In a radio interview, Lord West said: ``I still need to be fully convinced that
we absolutely need more than 28 days.''

However, within an hour after attending a meeting with Mr Brown in No 10, he
emerged to issue a hasty U-turn, telling reporters: ``My feeling is, yes, we
need more than 28 days.''

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: ``The obsession with 42 days is
undermining, not supporting, the battle against terrorism.

``Ministers are taking their reliance on hypothetical examples to new lengths as
they attempt to cover up for the complete lack of genuine evidence for such a
move.

``Gordon Brown himself says that the key objective in combating terrorism is
winning over hearts and minds.

``How can he possibly then justify a measure like extending pre-charge detention
which will do so much to alienate people?''

The director of human rights group Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, said: ``The
Government is right to abandon the divisive rhetoric of the 'war on terror', but
it must now abandon the counter-productive policies that went with it.

``Despite ministerial promises of exceptional circumstances and so-called
safeguards, the reality of this Bill is an on-off button for six weeks detention
without charge.''

But Association of Chief Police Officers president Ken Jones said: ``Many of
these proposals have been called for by Acpo and recognise the pressing need to
take into account the complexities of gathering evidence, which in terrorist
cases often involving a multiplicity of languages and identities along with the
forensic analysis of huge amounts of information, are placing unprecedented
demands on investigators.

``The debate which has focussed around the issue of pre-charge detention is
essential, because of the increasing likelihood in these circumstances of the
current limit of 28 days proving insufficient in the future.

``Acpo has consistently argued that appropriate safeguards in legislation should
seek to build a consensus among communities and strike a balance between
individual liberties and security.

``These issues are now a matter for Parliament and the wider public to consider
and debate.''

Another new measure is to make it a crime for charity workers and other
volunteers to fail to disclose information about suspected terror financing.

Other moves - all of which have been extensively discussed ahead of publication
- included:

Allowing police to question terror suspects after they have been charged;

Closing a loophole which currently prevents police from sharing fingerprints or
DNA samples taken from terrorist suspects held under control orders;

Introducing a new scheme - based on the sex offenders register - which will
force terror suspects jailed for 12 months or more to keep police informed about
their home address and other details on release;

Moves to force coroners to hear terror-related inquests without a jury if the
hearing will involve material which might affect national security, and for the
coroner to have access to telephone tap material and other ``intercept''
evidence in ``exceptional circumstances'';

Requiring gas companies to pay for all or part of any extra policing deemed
necessary at gas facilities.

The new offence concerning information about members of the armed forces will
carry up to 10 years' imprisonment.

Ms Smith said the offence would apply where there was suspicion of a plot to
attack service personnel or place them in danger.

Scottish National Party home affairs spokesman Pete Wishart confirmed the
party's six MPs would join other opposition parties in rejecting the 42-day
proposal.

Mr Wishart said: ``We remain unconvinced that any extension to pre-charge
detention is necessary and will not support the Government on this issue.

``We have listened, engaged and have been prepared to hear the case for an
extension but not one shred of evidence has been produced to show that this is
required. We are not prepared to see long established civil liberties in
Scotland compromised to satisfy the UK Government's single-minded determination
to push this unnecessary measure through.''

Shadow home secretary David Davis said: ``The Government has not been able to
present a shred of evidence to justify extending pre-charge detention, and there
is now a range of evidence pointing the other way.

``The Government should focus on practical measures to get the best use out of
the existing 28-day period - measures like post-charge questioning and the use
of intercept evidence to prosecute those involved in terror.

``Not only is the latest proposal to extend pre-charge detention to 42 days
unnecessary, the proposed safeguard is a sham - the Home Secretary will be able
to extend whether or not Parliament approves.

``Last week, Jacqui Smith rightly highlighted the danger of radicalisation.
Today, her fixation with extending pre-charge detention risks serving as a
recruiting sergeant for terrorism.''

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

Police to probe dog attack terror

BYLINE: Craig Evry

SECTION: TROWBRIDGE NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


POLICE have launched an investigation after a dog walker was attacked by an
American bulldog.

Dawn Griffiths, 44, of Pitman Avenue in Trowbridge, was walking her 16-week old
Westie, Poppy, in Southwick Country Park at about 10am on Sunday when she was
attacked.

Miss Griffiths told the Wiltshire Times she was on her regular morning walk with
Poppy when a collie attacked the puppy, leaving her screeching in pain.

As she bent down to rescue Poppy, a second dog, an American bulldog, took hold
of her upper arm in its mouth and bit down hard causing puncture wounds and
bruising, despite the fact she was wearing a thick jumper and coat.

The attack has left Miss Griffiths, an employee at Virgin Mobile in Trowbridge,
terrified of taking Poppy out alone.

Describing the morning's events she said: "It all happened so fast.

"The collie attacked Poppy and she was screaming her head off. I picked her up
quick as a flash.

"The next thing I know I have got this American bulldog clamped on my arm and it
wouldn't let go.

"I thought keep calm, don't shout, don't panic'.

"There was no provocation at all. My puppy wasn't barking. It was so quick -
that's the scary thing about it.

"I'm terrified when I take her out in the morning now. I hover around people I
know."

Miss Griffiths said she contacted police in Trowbridge because she didn't want
the same thing to happen to anyone else, especially as a lot of children use the
country park to walk their pet dogs.

"I love dogs but what is the point of having a dog like that? You have a time
bomb in your hands," she said.

"I could have had my seven-year-old nephew with me as he usually comes out on
the weekend. Thank God he had gone away."

Miss Griffiths said the two women walking the dogs involved, along with two
others, walked off after the incident.

"I was just glad to get away from the dogs. I walked back to the entrance where
several people were gathered," she said.

"There were some very nice people who witnessed it and gave me a bit of
comfort."

Wiltshire Police confirmed it had received a complaint about a dog attack at the
country park. Officers are due to call on Miss Griffiths to take a statement.

If you were a witness to the incident call Trowbridge police on 0845 408 7000.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

Police to probe dog attack terror

BYLINE: Craig Evry

SECTION: TROWBRIDGE NEWS (TROWBRIDGE NEWS)

LENGTH: 371  words


POLICE have launched an investigation after a dog walker was attacked by an
American bulldog.

Dawn Griffiths, 44, of Pitman Avenue in Trowbridge, was walking her 16-week old
Westie, Poppy, in Southwick Country Park at about 10am on Sunday when she was
attacked.

Miss Griffiths told the Wiltshire Times she was on her regular morning walk with
Poppy when a collie attacked the puppy, leaving her screeching in pain.

As she bent down to rescue Poppy, a second dog, an American bulldog, took hold
of her upper arm in its mouth and bit down hard causing puncture wounds and
bruising, despite the fact she was wearing a thick jumper and coat.

The attack has left Miss Griffiths, an employee at Virgin Mobile in Trowbridge,
terrified of taking Poppy out alone.

Describing the morning's events she said: "It all happened so fast.

"The collie attacked Poppy and she was screaming her head off. I picked her up
quick as a flash.

"The next thing I know I have got this American bulldog clamped on my arm and it
wouldn't let go.

"I thought keep calm, don't shout, don't panic'.

"There was no provocation at all. My puppy wasn't barking. It was so quick -
that's the scary thing about it.

"I'm terrified when I take her out in the morning now. I hover around people I
know."

Miss Griffiths said she contacted police in Trowbridge because she didn't want
the same thing to happen to anyone else, especially as a lot of children use the
country park to walk their pet dogs.

"I love dogs but what is the point of having a dog like that? You have a time
bomb in your hands," she said.

"I could have had my seven-year-old nephew with me as he usually comes out on
the weekend. Thank God he had gone away."

Miss Griffiths said the two women walking the dogs involved, along with two
others, walked off after the incident.

"I was just glad to get away from the dogs. I walked back to the entrance where
several people were gathered," she said.

"There were some very nice people who witnessed it and gave me a bit of
comfort."

Wiltshire Police confirmed it had received a complaint about a dog attack at the
country park. Officers are due to call on Miss Griffiths to take a statement.

If you were a witness to the incident call Trowbridge police on 0845 408 7000.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 24, 2008

VIDEO Couple's acid attack terror caught on CCTV

LENGTH: 442 words


EXCLUSIVE - SEE THE ACID ATTACK CCTV FOOTAGE

A COUPLE are living in fear over night-time attacks on their Wakefield home.

Adrian and Helen Marsh have set up an intricate CCTV system at their home and
stay up through the night in a bid to catch the culprits.

Police are investigating four attacks on the property including one caught on
hidden cameras.

The couple believe the stress caused by the attacks led to Mrs Marsh suffering a
miscarriage.

So far around £5,000 of damage has been caused.

Their nightmare began on October 5 last year when Mr Marsh, a sales executive,
discovered paint stripper had been sprayed across his VW Passat.

Mr Marsh, 41, who believes the attacks are targeted, said: "At first we just put
it down to a random attack by kids or something like that. We reported it to the
police and left it at that. But a few weeks later it became clear that something
more was going on."

Just after 11pm on October 29, a neighbour knocked on their door after abusive
graffiti had been daubed on the front of the home on Hornbeam Avenue,
Alverthorpe.

Mr Marsh said: "Helen was alone in the house and nine weeks pregnant. She was
absolutely terrified. I was working abroad and flew home straight away.

"It was not long after that when Helen suffered the miscarriage. We can't help
but think the stress of what happened was a cause of it."

Police were called again after the car was covered in more graffiti and paint
stripper two days later.

Mr Marsh also undertook his own detective work and printed 500 letters appealing
for information, which he delivered to local homes .

He also spent thousands of pounds installing a CCTV system at the semi-detached
property.

After more than two months without a repeat attack, the couple hoped the
measures had worked.

But on January 11 Mr Marsh found his car, which had undergone a complete
re-spray, was once again covered in paint stripper.

A trawl through CCTV footage revealed an 18-second clip of a man wearing a
hooded top pouring the liquid over the car before running off. The man's face
was hidden.

Mr Marsh said: "It's got to the stage where the only thing for it is to sit up
through the night and catch them red-handed when they come again. The police
have been very helpful and are doing what they can but they only have limited
resources.

"My fear is that this person won't stop until serious damage is done. This has
gone on for long enough now and we refuse to be intimidated any more."

A West Yorkshire Police spokesman confirmed reports of criminal damage to the
vehicle and property had been made and forensic officers had investigated.

Anyone with information can call PC Phil Battye on 0845 6060606.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            January 25, 2008 Friday

Britain - MPs rally to attack terror plans

BYLINE: Daniel Coysh

LENGTH: 405 words


Home Secretary Jacqui Smith faced another defeat at the hands of rebel Labour
MPs on Thursday after she unveiled plans to extend detention without charge to
42 days.

Ms Smith said that she is still hopeful of winning cross-party agreement on the
need to increase the maximum period from the current 28 days, which is already
the longest in the Western world.

But a survey of Labour MPs last month revealed that enough of them are prepared
to stand up for civil liberties and defeat the plans.

Only 34 votes are needed to defeat the plans and the poll found that at least 38
have vowed to oppose attempts to extend the existing limits.

Introducing her new Counter-Terrorism Bill to the Commons, Ms Smith said: "The
sorts of scenarios we have been talking about have been those where there might
be a range of multiple plots.

"It might be those where we have got an extremely complex investigation, perhaps
to get evidence internationally or from a large amount of computer discs."

She claimed that the the plan for a higher pre-charge detention limit would only
come into force in exceptional cases.

Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen said: "When the time comes to vote,
we feel that MPs should draw a line in the sand on this issue, once and for all.

"The government cannot keep chipping away at people's rights without them
eventually becoming severely diminished."

"Locking someone up for six weeks is punishment without a court deciding the law
has been broken."

She added: "Once we start using oppressive laws, counter-terrorism methods can
soon take on the appearance of persecution."

Eric Metcalfe of law reform group Justice warned: "Scrutiny is no safeguard when
there's no evidence to scrutinise.

"Nor can scrutiny prevent the injustice of being held without evidence for 42
days.

"Phoney safeguards and a lack of evidence are no way to fight terrorism."

Durham University senior law lecturer Aaron Baker pointed out that Ms Smith had
failed to admit that it is already possible for the government "to extend the
incarceration period in a given case if it can persuade the judiciary that it is
'strictly necessary' in a 'national emergency'."

He added: "Unfortunately, the government simply does not want to be bothered
with proving anything in a courtroom setting.

"That is why they seek to frighten and bamboozle the public with hypothetical
claims of catastrophe and of complexity that the rest of us cannot hope to
grasp."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      January 25, 2008 Friday 4:03 PM GMT

TEENAGER ARRESTED FOR ATTEMPTED CYRUS TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 172 words


A teenager from northern California has been arrested for allegedly planning to
crash a plane into a MILEY CYRUS concert.

The unnamed 16-year-old was detained by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) after smuggling handcuffs, duct tape, rope and other items on to a flight
from Los Angeles on Tuesday (22Jan08).

Although there was no incident on the plane, the FBI have accused the boy of
hatching plans to hijack the jet and direct it into a stadium in Lafayette, Los
Angeles, where the pop star was performing, according to TMZ.com.

A spokesman for the FBI tells the website, "He had some general plans where he
was going and indicated where he wanted to die."

However, it was later confirmed that the date of Hannah Montana star Cyrus's
concert in Lafayette was actually scheduled for 25 January (08) - three days
after the attempted attack on 22 January.

The 15-year-old actress/singer is in the middle of her Best Of Both Worlds tour
which will see the star play 69 live shows concluding in Miami, Florida, on 31
January (08).

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2008 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                January 27, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Spooks' HO 'open to terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 12

LENGTH: 150 words


BRITAIN'S spooks are facing their own terror threat because of a lack of
security guards.

The men and women charged with protecting national security are themselves at
danger from attack.

Sources at Thames House in London, where MI5 is based, say there is currently a
"severe shortage" of security officers.

Bosses are so worried it could lead to a terror strike on the building and staff
they have asked Army chiefs if they have any suitable recruits. One source
said:"With the current situation as it is there is serious concern about an
attack.

"There is currently a recruitment drive to try and rectify the shortage but it's
not that easy to find suitable candidates."

Intelligence chiefs consider the threat level to be "severe".

MI5 is also looking to recruit British Muslims to infiltrate terror cells.

Experts believe there could be more than 200 different terror cells in the UK -
all plotting attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ONGUARD: Police outside MI5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                January 27, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Spooks' HO 'open to terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 12

LENGTH: 150 words


BRITAIN'S spooks are facing their own terror threat because of a lack of
security guards.

The men and women charged with protecting national security are themselves at
danger from attack.

Sources at Thames House in London, where MI5 is based, say there is currently a
"severe shortage" of security officers.

Bosses are so worried it could lead to a terror strike on the building and staff
they have asked Army chiefs if they have any suitable recruits. One source
said:"With the current situation as it is there is serious concern about an
attack.

"There is currently a recruitment drive to try and rectify the shortage but it's
not that easy to find suitable candidates."

Intelligence chiefs consider the threat level to be "severe".

MI5 is also looking to recruit British Muslims to infiltrate terror cells.

Experts believe there could be more than 200 different terror cells in the UK -
all plotting attacks.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ONGUARD: Police outside MI5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 29, 2008, Tuesday
                             Worcestershire Edition

Local News Extra: Car attacked in M-way chase terror;
BROMSGROVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 339 words


A MOVING car was attacked by a gang of thugs wielding golf clubs during a
terrifying chase on a motorway.

A 20-year-old driver and his friend were targeted on the M42 after being
followed through Bromsgrove town centre by louts in a Ford Fiesta.

The victim, from Redditch, was tailgated in his Vauxhall Corsa during the
11-mile pursuit and repeatedly forced to brake when the attackers' car overtook
and then swerved in front of the vehicle.

At one point, as the cars sped along the M42, a second Ford Fiesta joined the
chase and the victim's car was boxed in before two teenagers leaned out of the
windows and used golf irons to attack body panels.

The driver managed to leave the motorway and was forced to reverse at a
roundabout to escape.

Police have appealed for witnesses and said the driver has been too scared to
return to Bromsgrove.

PC Martyn Dudley said: "This incident could have jeopardised the safety of the
victim and other road users, especially on the motorway."

The driver's ordeal began at 11pm on January 9 when the silver car began to
follow his black Corsa in Windsor Street.

Although the victim managed to lose the attackers briefly, they caught up with
him on the A38 and chased him on to the M 4 2 northbound.

He was forced to slow to 30mph after the car swerved in front of him, allowing
the second Fiesta to catch up just before Junction 3, where the Corsa was struck
with the golf clubs.

It is believed the driver of an orange articulated B&Q lorry may have witnessed
the incident and is being urged to come forward.

The first offender who struck the car is described as white, aged 18 to 20, of
skinny build, and wearing a blue baseball cap, dark coloured sports jacket and
hoop earring in his left ear.

The second offender was white, aged 16 to 18, with a light brown Mohican-style
haircut and had patterns cut into the left hand side of his head.

Two white males were travelling in the other Fiesta.

Witnesses are asked to contact Bromsgrove Police on 08457 444888 or ring
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           January 29, 2008, Tuesday
                                  FIN Edition

JOGGER'S SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: SIMON WALTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words


A TERRIFIED jogger today told how she was sexually assaulted as she ran through
a Teesside underpass in a country park.

The 48-year-old was left "extremely shaken" after a man ran up alongside her,
pushed her against the wall and assaulted her.

The victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was out jogging when she
heard someone running up behind her.

She said: "This man ran alongside me and tried to be friendly, asking me if I
was trying to be fit.

"I tried to ignore him. I could feel this was different. I felt quite
threatened. It felt strange. He looked strange as well. There was something
rather threatening about his manner."

The woman tried to run away but the attacker pounced.

She said: "He said 'no you don't' and pushedmeagainst the wall and assaulted
me."

The attack happened near the A19 and Norton Ring Road. The victim shouted and
screamed and after a few moments the man ran off, possibly towards Billingham.

Now the woman has been left traumatised by the experience and wary of going out
again on her own.

She said: "I think he was someone who was an opportunist. He just decided to
take a chance.

"I felt before that I could go anywhere but I feel more than vulnerable now. I
think it just began to hit me yesterday.

"I started to think about it and just how serious it was, or how serious it
could have been. But I'm not going to let it spoil my life."

The woman is now hoping a police appeal for information will help snare her
attacker, who she described as having staring eyes.

She said: "Apart fromwanting him caught for myself I had to report it in case it
happens to somebody else.

"You don't know if this is the first time or if he's done it before or if he
could take it further.

"I would think he was a danger.

Anyone who can do that to someone in broad daylight - I wouldn't like to meet
him on a dark night.

"Afterwards I was in a state of shock. I couldn't believe that had happened. It
was frightening at the time but even more frightening afterwards. He could have
had a weapon."

The man ran off after the attack which took place at about 9.45am last Thursday.

The man police want is white, aged about 20, of stocky build, with
mousey-coloured hair and distinctive red rings around his eyes.

He wore beige tracksuit bottoms and a blue coat.

Call Detective Constable Michael Stokes of Stockton CID on 01642 302226.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF THE ORDEAL: The attack took place in this underpass near the
Norton Ring Road and police are appealing for help in tracing the culprit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                      January 29, 2008 Tuesday 2:48 AM BST

WORKERS GIVEN ADVICE ON TERROR ATTACK PREVENTION

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 385 words


Police stepped up their fight against terrorism today with a conference aimed at
giving workers the know-how to spot possible threats.

More than 60 delegates from a range of backgrounds, including the security,
retail and finance sectors, will attend the gathering in Edinburgh.

They are expected to learn from those at the forefront of counter-terrorist
policing in Britain about how to ``detect and deter'' terrorist activity.

The training seminar, entitled Project Griffin, is bringing together experts
from Lothian and Borders Police, the Metropolitan Police, and the Counter
Terrorism Branch from the City of London Police.

Delegates will receive a certificate at the end of the training day, and they
will be expected to pass on advice from the conference to their colleagues and
the wider community.

The one-day conference is the first in a series of similar events being run
throughout the year in Edinburgh.

Lothian and Borders' chief superintendent George Simpson said: ``Certain sectors
of our community, such as the transport infrastructure, do face increased risk,
however it should be noted that all terrorist attacks require a great deal of
planning and preparation.

``It is at this stage that those involved are vulnerable as their actions expose
them to the increased risk of being detected.

``This is where the police and security services rely on the assistance from the
public to identify such suspicious activity, in particular those professionals
who work within the security industry and those involved in community safety
within our local communities.

``The Griffin awareness training seminar will provide delegates with the
necessary skills required to identify suspicious activity and other skills which
will benefit not only the organisation in which they work, but the wider
community which surrounds them, against the threat from extremist activity and
other acts of criminality.''

Tom Aitchison, chief executive of City of Edinburgh Council, which is involved
in today's seminar, added: ``Although Edinburgh is an extremely safe city, the
council will always seek ways to maintain and improve the security of all our
communities.''

The initiative is based on a system introduced by the City of London Police in
2004.

Since then it has been rolled out across the UK and elsewhere in the world.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: SOUTH EAST

                     January 30, 2008 Wednesday 1:42 PM BST

STAGED TERROR ATTACK HELD

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 61 words


A training exercise to prepare businesses in the event of a terrorist attack
will be taking place in Ashford.

The free course will help shopworkers and security and management staff identify
measures to prevent, handle and recover from a major incident.

The National Counter Terrorism Security Office event will be at the Ashford
International Hotel on February 12. end

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                     January 30, 2008 Wednesday 1:42 PM BST

STAGED TERROR ATTACK HELD

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 61 words


A training exercise to prepare businesses in the event of a terrorist attack
will be taking place in Ashford.

The free course will help shopworkers and security and management staff identify
measures to prevent, handle and recover from a major incident.

The National Counter Terrorism Security Office event will be at the Ashford
International Hotel on February 12. end

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday

Algerian mayor reportedly escapes terrorist attack in Tizi Ouzou

LENGTH: 163 words


Excerpt from report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on
30 January

[Report by Ameziane Athali: "Algeria: This Evening A Rally for Culture and
Democracy Mayor Escaped a Terrorist Attack in Tizi-Ouzou"]

This evening [30 January] the mayor of the municipality of Les Aghribs, located
35 kilometres east of the city of Tizi-Ouzou, escaped a terrorist bomb attack,
Tout sur l'Algerie.com has learned from security sources. According to
indications supplied by our sources, it was 1920 hours when a homemade bomb, in
all likelihood set off remotely by some terrorists, exploded just after Mr Rabah
Yermeche's car drove past. The latter had been coming back from a working visit
to the village of Taboudoucht. A young man who was passing by the spot at the
time of the explosion was hit. The seriousness of his injuries is not known.

[passage omitted; review of previous attacks on elected officials in Kabylie]

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 30 Jan 08

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 1, 2008 Friday

Russia calls for reconciliation, accord in Iraq facing terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 261 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 1 February: Moscow "is calling on the leaders of all the leading
political forces and ethno-confessional communities of Iraq to display
solidarity in the face of challenges which the country faces and not to allow
further exacerbation [of the situation]". This was stated today by the official
representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Mikhail Kamynin, commenting on
today's bloody terrorist attacks in Baghdad.

"Russia resolutely condemns any forms and methods of terror, irrespective of the
justification of these crimes that their instigators and organizers are trying
to present," the diplomat stressed. Kamynin said that today's events in Baghdad
have shown that "the security problem in Iraq continues to be extremely acute".

The diplomat noted that "it is only possible to achieve the normalization of the
situation in that country using political methods through achieving a real
national reconciliation and accord. Russia supports the efforts of the
international community and countries of the region aimed at promoting a
situation in which peace and stability come to Iraq as soon as possible."

Today, suicide-bombers caused two explosions in the Iraqi capital. Kamynin
recalled that the total number of victims had exceeded 60 people, about 100
Iraqis had sustained injures. He noted that "once again peaceful, totally
innocent people have become victims. We are expressing deep condolences to the
families of those who died."

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1520 gmt 1 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 2, 2008 Saturday

India: Arrested militant tells investigators about planned terror attacks in Goa

LENGTH: 605 words


Text of report by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 2 February

Hyderabad: Islamic fundamentalists planned serial blasts on the Goa beaches,
interrogation of Hyderabad resident [name omitted] has revealed.

The arrival of droves of foreign tourists, especially Israelis, seemed to have
put the beaches on the cross-wires of Lashkar-i-Toiba and Harkatul-Jihadi-al
Islami [Huji] operatives working within the country and across the borders.
Motorcycles allegedly stolen by [name omitted] and Asaduddin Abubakar of
Karnataka were meant to be used as bombs on a few select beaches.

[name omitted], who is being grilled by intelligence agencies and the police
departments of more than 12 states in Karnataka, has disclosed that the purpose
of his visit to Goa immediately after the twin blasts in Hyderabad on 25 August,
was to identify beaches for organising serial blasts.

The 22-year-old engineering college drop-out, who had undergone training in a
Pakistan-based HuJI cell, had selected Goa, as it was attracting hundreds of
tourists from Israel. Though [name omitted] had not yet disclosed how he planned
to organise the blasts, his matter-of-fact confession that they were planned in
four beach stretches of Goa stunned interrogators.

The Islamist terror modules had earlier turned bicycles into Improvised
Explosive Devices (IEDs) in the Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur blasts. "Now
motorcycles seemed to be the in-thing," a police officer remarked.

The Davangere police had seized 11 stolen motorcycles at the instance of [name
omitted] and his accomplice. Though the duo claimed to have stolen the
motorcycles for fun, the fact that they did not abandon or sell them surprised
the sleuths.

Prize catch

[name omitted], a native of Hyderabad, is being considered a prize catch for the
Indian police. He, however, has not yet spilled the beans on who had fabricated
the IEDs or how the explosives were to be supplied to him. All he has disclosed
was that he had "sought" 50 kg of explosives from his handlers.

Intelligence agencies, piecing stray pieces of information together now realise
that they had an input based on telephonic intercepts that [name omitted] mentor
Shahid alias Bilal had instructed him to go to Kathmandu saying that "everything
is arranged."

Fiat disregarded

But, [name omitted] disregarded the fiat and stayed put in Hyderabad, ostensibly
to undergo a root canal treatment in a dental hospital and to also get his eyes
checked.

Even when he was undergoing training in a terror camp across the border, Indian
intelligence agencies had intercepted a telephone call in which the subject of
communication appeared to be [name omitted]. The lanky youngster with a serious
eye problem had lost his spectacles and was finding it difficult to move without
them. The caller was requesting the person on the other line to arrange for
sending a pair of spectacles. Now, intelligence agencies believe that it was
meant for [name omitted].

His repeated assertion that Bilal was "neutralised" by his operatives in Karachi
in August 2007 has made the sleuths wonder whether it was a red herring thrown
by Bilal handlers.

Yet, if one were to go by [name omitted] version, Bilal was growing too big for
his boots by taking decisions on his own. Bilal's penchant to depend more on
Bangladesh HuJI modules for organising subversive activities in India was not
liked by his Pakistan handlers.

Particularly, the arrest of a HuJI activist by Indian security agencies on the
India-Bangladesh border last year was viewed as a "terribly unprofessional act"
by Bilal's handlers.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 02 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           February 2, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Attack terror for teenage girl on bus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 101 words


A SIXTEEN-year-old girl was assaulted and robbed on a Glasgow bus by two other
girls.

She was on the No38 in Cumbernauld Road going towards Craigend.

The attackers were about the same age as the victim, who suffered minor
injuries.

It happened at 10.40pm on Thursday and police are keen to speak to a man who
helped the victim and escorted her home.

One attacker was about 5ft 4in, had dark brown hair, and wore a green or blue
short sleeved top and pink striped trousers.

The other, also about 5ft 4in, had short blonde hair tied in a ponytail. Her lip
was pierced and she was wearing a pink short sleeved top.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2008 Monday

Israeli radio: three dead in Dimona attack include "two terrorists"

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 4 February

In a suicide bombing in the Dimona commercial centre, one woman was killed and
23 others were wounded, one very seriously. Two terrorists managed to reach the
commercial centre and one of them blew himself up. The other terrorist was
probably injured by the blast, and a police officer noticed him trying to
detonate his explosive belt. Our correspondent Nisim Qeynan reports that the
officer shot the terrorist several times, killing him. The explosive belt did
not detonate and the police bomb squad disassembled it.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1100 gmt 4 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2008 Monday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Israel

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -04.02.2008 -The Turkish Foreign Ministry condemned Monday's
terrorist attack in Israel.

"The attack, with no doubt, aims to fail the negotiation process which resumed
after a seven-year interval thanks to Annapolis Conference. We expect parties to
stand together against terrorism and act carefully against provocations which
would serve goals of anti-pacifists in current sensitive milieu," noted the
Ministry.

A suicide attack in Dimona, Israel killed an Israeli woman and wounded seven
people on Monday.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1310 gmt 4 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            February 4, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

US military drained of means to respond to terrorist attack;
Congressional panel finds "appalling gaps' in readiness

BYLINE: IAN BRUCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 497 words


THE US would be unlikely to be able to respond adequately to a big terrorist
attack or national catastrophe because the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have
drained military resources, according to a congressional commission.

The panel says there are "appalling gaps" in homeland defence readiness and the
forces allotted to deal with an emergency lack training, equipment and funding.

The report also warns that the National Guard, the equivalent of the Territorial
Army and which would deploy to meet threats on US soil, needs an immediate  24bn
simply to replace vehicles and kit worn out in combat overseas.

Guard readiness has slid since March, when 88% of units were rated "not ready",
said retired Marine Major General Arnold Punaro, the commission chairman.

"Because the nation has not adequately resourced its forces designated for
response to weapons of mass destruction, it does not have sufficient trained,
ready forces available, " the report said. "This is an appalling gap that places
the nation and its citizens at greater risk.

"The military must also carry out the same kind of exhaustive contingency
planning for domestic attacks and catastrophes as it does for those overseas."

Greater funding is needed to train and equip the 836,000 selected reserves so
they can operate interchangeably with active-duty personnel, Punaro said. He
noted, however, that the reserves are highly costeffective, contributing about
44% of US military personnel but accounting for only 9% of the Pentagon budget.

The panel also  recommended that the Pentagon provide the bulk of support to
civilian authorities if they are overwhelmed by a catastrophe and not leave them
reliant on local assets.

Controversially, it also recommends that state governors be allowed to command
federal troops in response to disasters, and that the head or deputy head of US
Northern Command, which leads the homeland defence efforts, be a Guard or
reserve officer.

Guard units are controlled by their home states, but can be called up for
federal duty.

Since the September 11 attacks in 2001, nearly 600,000 reservists have served in
Iraq, Afghanistan or other countries as part of the war against terror, and the
use of reservists has risen more than fivefold, the report adds. Without a
strong reserve force, the nation would be more likely to have to resort to a
draft on the scale of the call-up for Vietnam, which would be unfeasible both
politically and militarily, Punaro said.

In the UK, Douglas Alexander, the International Development Secretary, called on
the UK's Nato allies to take a greater share of the burden.

Mr Alexander insisted yesterday that progress was being made in the effort to
rebuild the country, but said: "We have made clear to our Nato partners that we
do want to see appropriate burden sharing, not just in the number of troops on
the ground but where those troops are committed within Afghanistan."

Defence Secretary Des Browne will raise the issue in a summit with Nato defence
ministers.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday

Iraq spokesman says "terrorist attacks" declining; other events 5 Feb

LENGTH: 451 words


Within its 1200 gmt newscast on 5 February, Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in
Arabic carries the following reports:

- "President Jalal Talabani has received Dr Iyad Allawi, head of the National
Iraqi List and secretary general of the Iraqi National Accord Movement, at his
place of residence in Baghdad. The two sides stressed the need to unify
political forces. They also reviewed the steps taken to help achieve national
reconciliation, find the appropriate solutions to remove the obstacles standing
in its way, and reconfigure the national unity government."

- "Prime Minister Nuri Kamil al-Maliki attended the ceremony of hoisting the new
Iraqi flag at an official function held at the Prime Ministry premises this
morning. The prime minister congratulated the Iraqi people on their new flag,
affirming that the adoption of the flag is a positive step aimed at
strengthening ties and national unity. Besides, this step removes the traces of
the past, which is replete with crimes, mass graves, human rights violations,
and many crimes committed under the shadow of the previous flag. He added that
this flag is now regarded as one of the symbols of national unity which seek to
consolidate fraternity, unity, and national reconciliation, and also as a
precursor for the government's efforts to achieve these objectives. The prime
minister urged those who have faith in the political process and the work of
constitutional institutions to act in harmony with the choice for the new flag
to uphold the national and democratic will."

- "The Council of Ministers today held an ordinary session under Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki. During the session, the cabinet members discussed several issues
pertaining to the political, security, and economic situations amidst
affirmations regarding the importance of working to upgrade the level of
services provided to citizens in various areas."

- "Official Government Spokesman Dr Ali al-Dabbagh has announced that the level
of terrorist operations has decreased considerably due to the development and
effectiveness of security services. Al-Dabbagh added that the number of victims
of terrorism in Baghdad dropped from 958 in January 2007 to only 16 in January
this year. Meanwhile, the number of car bombings has decreased from 50 to only
seven. Al-Dabbagh said that the decline in the level of terrorist attacks in
Baghdad is to be mainly attributed to the citizens' cooperation, and also to the
development and increasing effectiveness of the security services, as well as to
their preparedness to attack the terrorists' hideouts and prevent them from
carrying out their terrorist schemes and actions."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1200 gmt 5 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           February 5, 2008, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK FIVE ARE CAGED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 229 words


FIVE men who helped the failed July 21 London bombers go on the run were jailed
yesterday.

A judge imposed long sentences - and told them it was not enough to reflect the
horror of their crime.

The group, including the brothers of two of the bombers, gave them safe houses,
passports, clothes and food as police hunted them.

The men, all from London, were convicted after a four-month trial at Kingston
Crown Court.

Wahbi Mohammed, 25, was jailed for 17 years; Siraj Ali, 33, was given 12 years
and Abdul Sherif, 30, was given 10. Ismail Abdurahman, 25, got 10 years and
Muhedin Ali, 29, seven years.

Between them, they were convicted of 22 charges of failing to disclose
information about terrorism and assisting an offender.

Siraj Ali and Mohammed were also convicted of having prior knowledge of the plot
to explode devices on the London transport network on July 21, 2005.

The court heard all five defendants, originally from Africa, had status to
remain in the UK but that was under review.

Judge Paul Worsley told them: "The sentences at the disposal of this court are
woefully inadequate to reflect the enormity of what you were about."

He said their actions left the four bombers, who were jailed for life last year,
free to regroup and strike again.

Later, Scotland Yard assistant commissioner Peter Clarke labelled the men who
knew of the plot before it happened "despicable".

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday

World - Sri Lanka clamps down on terror attacks

LENGTH: 264 words


Sri Lanka celebrated its 60th independence anniversary on Monday with an intense
security clampdown which was aimed at halting a growing wave of attacks blamed
on separatist rebels that have killed scores of civilians across the country.

Many roads throughout Colombo were sealed and one of Sri Lanka's main mobile
phone providers shut off its text messaging service for six hours as top
government officials and thousands of ordinary Sri Lankans gathered for the
national ceremony.

Despite the precautions, suspected rebels set off a bomb underneath a power
transformer just south of Colombo at about 6am, causing no injuries, according
to military spokesman Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara.

In a nationally televised address, President Mahinda Rajapaksa railed against
the Tamil Tiger rebels and said that the current economic and security
difficulties would be over soon.

He reiterated the government's vow to crush the rebels after decades of warfare.

"Our defence forces have achieved victories that were never before seen.
Terrorism is facing a defeat that it has never before faced," Mr Rajapaksa said.

Government officials have said that they hope to rout the rebels by the end of
the year.

Since 1983, the government has been fighting the Tamil Tigers, who demand an
independent homeland for Sri Lanka's ethnic minority Tamils after decades of
being marginalised by Sinhalese-dominated governments.

A 2002 ceasefire ushered in several years of calm and fostered hopes that peace
would prevail, but the truce broke down amid renewed attacks over the past two
years that killed 5,000 people.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan warns politicians of "terrorist attacks" before poll

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report by Rawalpindi correspondent headlined "There is Threat of Attack
on Leading Political Figures Before 18 Feb Elections: Government Warns"
published by Nawa-e Waqt on 6 February

Islamabad -- The government has made it clear to the leaders of different
parties that leading political figures can come under deadly terrorist attacks
before 18 February election. The government has undertaken security measures in
all the provinces on its own. Police, rangers, and other law enforcement
agencies have been put on high alert, and precautionary measures are being taken
in light of the reports received by the intelligence agencies.

However, it is not possible for the government to provide full security to all
candidates contesting the elections. Therefore, the political leaders and
independent candidates should also focus on their own security as well.

Source: Nawa-i-Waqt, Rawalpindi, in English 06 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 8, 2008 Friday

Interior Ministry "cannot rule out" terrorist attacks in Germany

LENGTH: 213 words


Excerpt from report by independent German news agency ddp on 8 February

Berlin: The German security authorities have issued warnings about attacks by
the Al-Qa'idah terrorist network in Germany. There is evidence from the
Afghan-Pakistani border area, where Al-Qa'idah is restructuring itself, that
Germany is "moving into the centre of the cross-hairs", an Interior Ministry
spokesman said in Berlin on Friday [8 February]. The Internet is also providing
corresponding information.

The Interior Ministry is watching the development with "great concern" and
cannot rule out an attack in Germany. However, the security authorities are
doing everything in their power to prevent this, he stressed. The spokesman
pointed to the greater use of the Internet to recruit sympathizers and
disseminate instructions on building bombs. Thus, there are German-language
"virtual terrorism camps", where bomb production is taught in German.

At the same time, he stressed that the debate does not have the objective of
fanning fears or bringing about debates about the law on the Federal Office of
Criminal Investigations through the back door. However, the public has the right
to be informed about such developments. [Passage omitted]

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1143 gmt 8 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 8, 2008 Friday

Security experts see Germany as target of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 827 words


Text of report by Thorsten Jungholt, "Decision about attack in Germany has been
made", in right-of-centre daily German newspaper Die Welt on 8 February

Berlin: The people working as terrorism investigators at the Joint Internet
Centre [GIZ] of the German security authorities in the Berlin district of
Treptow need to be fairly tough. That's because most of the time the computer
experts of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the
Federal Office of Criminal Investigation [BKA], when surfing of video-platform
sites, opinion forums or news sites of the militant Islamist scene have to deal
with brutal pictures of decapitations or calls for suicide attacks under the
guise of religion. But sometimes the work is entertaining, when, for example,
holy warriors from the Balkans in a video message say in broken German, "We are
the warriors of God's."

However, horror outweighs the rare moments of entertainment. That's because,
despite the fumbling linguistic efforts, video is one in a growing number of
examples which show that Islamist groups, radicalized single criminals or other
followers of the terrorism network Al-Qa'idah are trying with a new intensity to
strike also in Germany. In December and January, GIZ investigators intercepted
many video messages which were not only in the usual Arabic but carried German
subtitles. Heinz Fromm, president of the Federal Office for the Protection of
the Constitution, speaks of a "new quality" of Islamist propaganda. Apart from
inciting messages calling for attacks in the West, an increasing number of
specific instructions for the building of bombs is placed on the Internet in
German. This strengthening of Al-Qa'idah's Internet offensive, which has been
noticed for a year now, plays an important role in the radicalization of young
Muslims living in Germany, he said. "We are concerned that in the future we
shall not be able to prevent every operation," August Hanning, state secretary
in the Interior Ministry responsible for antiterrorist defence, said. Militant
Islamists had already on seven occasions planned attacks in Germany. In the name
of God, they wanted to blow up trains, plant bombs at Christmas markets or kill
state guests. That they were not successful was due to the good work of the
security authorities and pure luck. The worst attack was foiled by the police
last September, when they arrested three suspected terrorists in the Sauerland
region, who had planned bomb attacks against US facilities.

But now the security situation has once again deteriorated, BKA Vice-President
Bernhard Falk says. "There are indications that, apart from the Sauerland
attackers' plans the odds are high that terrorists are working on several other
plans." The basis for this situation appraisal is not only Al-Qa'idah's virtual
offensive but also the development in the Afghan-Pakistani border area.
According to the assessment by the German intelligence services, Al-Qa'idah's
former operational capability in this inaccessible tribal areas, which was
temporarily disturbed by the US-led Afghanistan campaign of the United Nations,
has largely been restored. "The basic decision to carry out attacks in Germany
has been made there," said BKA deputy director Falk. Therefore, mainly German
Muslims are now being recruited to learn the holy warriors' trade of terrorism
in Pakistani terrorist camps, he stated. Above all, converts and young Muslims
from Turkish families are contacted because these men are familiar with Western
conditions and can move inconspicuously in Germany after their return. This
entails a lot of work for the terrorist investigators - currently, the BKA and
the offices in the federal states are conducting 184 preliminary proceedings
against militant Islamists; 70 people have been categorized as "dangerous" and
therefore monitored around the clock by the police. In addition, there are 170
"relevant persons", who are in contact with these "dangerous persons" and
therefore also in the crosshairs of the authorities.

The main reason why Germany has moved up so high in the hierarchy of attack
targets is the operation of the Bundeswehr in Afghanistan. In the latest video
message of terrorist leader Usamah Bin-Ladin, which was published in November,
entitled "To the Nations of Europe," the Europeans are accused of being
responsible for the killing of innocent civilians in Afghanistan. Although
Germany is not explicitly mentioned, the terrorist leader's video for the first
time in three and half years carries German subtitles. A message published in
the German-language Internet forum of the Global Islamic Media Front is even
more specific - it fiercely criticizes the Bundeswehr's presence in the Hindu
Kush. Leading representatives of Islamic associations in Germany, such as the
Central Council of Muslims or the Turkish-Islamic Union, DITIB, are called on to
act against that - "In the name of God."

Source: Die Welt, Berlin, in German 8 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            February 8, 2008 Friday

Taxi driver victim of terror attack

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: LANCASHIRE NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


A taxi driver had an iron bar held to his throat and was threatened at
knifepoint during an armed robbery.

The driver picked up a man on Manton Close in Salford and was told to go to
Salford Precinct to pick up another fare at 1am on January 29.

The taxi driver, who is 36, was directed to Wilmur Avenue in Cheetham Hill where
two men got into the back of the silver Honda Civic.

One of the men then put a two feet long iron bar to the taxi driver's neck and
pulled him towards the back seat.

The man in the front seat then produced a bread knife with a 14 inch blade and
demanded the driver hand over his cash, mobile phone and car keys.

The driver was then bundled out of his car and the offenders drove off.

The car was later found abandoned on Residential Street.

The ringleader, who was carrying the knife, is described as white, about 19
years old, 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in tall and was well built with a strong face and
full lips. He was wearing black trousers, a black top and a black woollen hat
that was rolled up. Police have released an e-fit of this man.

The second man is described as white, about 17 or 18 years old, of chubby build,
and about 5ft 6in tall. He was wearing a grey hooded top with darker shoulder
patches and black tracksuit bottoms. This offender was carrying a metal bar.

The third offender is described as white, of skinny build, about 5ft 8in tall
and was said to be about 17 or 18 years old. He had a long face and neck and was
dressed in a black tracksuit with the hood pulled up.

Detective Constable Richard Hudd, based at the Volume Crime Unit, said: "This
was a very nasty assault on a innocent taxi driver who was simply going about
his job.

"The offenders were carrying dangerous, potentially lethal, weapons and the
victim could have suffered serious, if not fatal, injuries if those weapons were
used.

"This highlights the dangers taxi drivers face every day and it is vital we
apprehend the offenders so they can be punished. I would appeal to anyone with
information about this incident to come forward and contact police."

Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call the Volume Crime
Unit on 0161 856 1901 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           February 12, 2008, Tuesday
                                  FIN Edition

GIRL, 20 IN SEX ATTACK TERROR;
Plea to drivers who passed

BYLINE: SIMON WALTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 449 words


MOTORISTS drove past as a young woman was sexually assaulted by a hooded
attacker in the middle of a busy street.

Police today urged women not to walk the streets alone at night. The attack was
the third sexual assault in Stockton in just three weeks.

The 20-year-old victim was beaten, pinned to the road and had her clothes ripped
off during the attack - but at least five motorists, including taxi drivers,
drove past without stopping.

Police today appealed for those drivers to come forward as they may hold clues
to the attacker's identity.

The victim was chatting on her mobile phone as she made her way along Riverside
Road, Stockton, at around 1am on Sunday.

As the woman ended the call a man jumped out and attacked her. He then subjected
her to a brutal sexual assault.

The woman was badly beaten in the attack but managed to fight the man off.

She then ran to the car park at the rear of the Blue Lounge pub where a woman
helped her.

Police are appealing for this woman to come forward as she may be able to help
them with their inquiries.

The victim suffered severe bruising and swelling to her face and was taken to
the University Hospital of North Tees for treatment.

Detective Inspector Craig Hobbs, of Stockton CID, said: "We would appeal for
anybody who was passing at the time, either pedestrians or motorists, either
before, during or after the attack, to come forward.

"I would also appeal to anyone who may know this suspect - he's likely to have
hand and facial injuries.

"Obviously anybody who comes forward, we will treat any information they give us
with the utmost discretion."

Det Insp Hobbs said the police were examining CCTV footage that showed at least
five vehicles go past during the attack.

He said: "They may have thought it was a domestic incident. They may have seen
it and just ignored it. We want them to come forward."

Det Insp Hobbs said the assault was an isolated incident.

But he added: "I would urge any female walking home in the early hours not to do
so. Take a taxi or go with a friend."

The attacker was a young, athletic man, of medium build, and was wearing a plain
white hooded top with the hood up.

He left the scene riding what is believed to be a light-coloured BMX bike,
heading on Riverside Road towards the rear of Halfords.

The attack is the third sexual assault in Stockton in the last three weeks -
although police are not linking the incidents.

A 17-year-old girl was sexually assaulted in Dennison Street on the evening of
January 29 and a 48-year-old jogger was groped in an underpass between
Billingham Country Park and Norton on the morning of January 24.

Anyone with any information about Sunday's attack should contact Stockton CID on
01642 302226.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF THE ATTACK: Riverside Road in Stockton, where cars drove by as
the attack took place, say police Picture by IAN McINTYRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Luton Today

                               February 13, 2008

Bedfordshire politician caught up in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 323  words


All sides must work for peace in Middle East, says Labour MEP

A Bedfordshire politician has spoken out about a harrowing visit he paid to the
Gaza Strip during a European peace mission last week.

Richard Howitt, Euro MP for the East of England, got a first-hand view of the
violence engulfing the disputed region when a rocket exploded ahead of the
convoy of vehicles he was travelling in.

He joined a group of fellow MEPs on the mission of peace to the Middle East.

Mr Howitt was returning to Israel when the attack happened, and he said: "It
graphically demonstrated how terrorism and military reprisal are spiralling out
of control, with innocent civilians left the victims on both sides.

"I passionately hope that current peace talks between the Israelis and the
Palestinians succeed, but this state of siege must be ended to save lives now."

While in the Gaza Strip, the MEP met seven-year-old kidney patient Abdullah
Al-Nahat, who was denied permission by the Israelis to travel across the border
to get specialist treatment.

Mr Howitt said: "A state of siege can surely never be justified when a
seven-year-old boy is denied the treatment that would save his life and is
instead called a security risk."

Describing conditions in the Gaza strip, which has been blockaded by Israel
since a violent takeover by Hamas Palestinians last year, he stated: "Untreated
sewage has turned the air noxious and the water filthy brown, and inadequate
food aid means the people are slowly starving.

"Fuel supplies are cut, so the roads are busy with donkeys pulling carts,
turning Gaza back to medieval times, perhaps appropriately for a state of siege.

"We were watched by blue uniformed Hamas gunmen stationed at street corners, but
did not hang around long enough to let them challenge us."

And Mr Howitt added: "Most harrowing of all was the local hospital, where
essential medicines had run out and they didn't even have the materials to bury
the dead."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 15, 2008, Friday

The world is 'waiting for the next 9/11 terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Michael Evans Defence Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 248 words


The world is living in "remission", waiting for the next 9/11 terrorist attack,
a report by the Royal United Services Institute said yesterday.

The next attack could deliver an "even greater psychological blow", and Britain
was in a poor state to deal with any new threat, the institute said.

The country was now suffering from a sense of national "fragmentation", faced by
the "implacability" of the Islamic terrorists threatening Britain.

The Whitehall-based institute urged ministers to restore defence and security as
the first duty of government, and emphasised that the failure to "lay down the
line" to immigrant communities had undermined the fight against extremism.
Britain, the report said, had become "a soft touch" in the face of mounting
security threats at home and abroad.

The institute's report was written by Professor Gwyn Prins of the London School
of Economics, and the Marquess of Salisbury, the former Conservative leader in
the House of Lords.

They called for the establishment of a powerful Cabinet committee, consisting of
senior ministers, defence chiefs and officials, to co-ordinate security policy
across the full spectrum of government activity. The committee should be
supported by a second joint committee of both Houses of Parliament which would
be responsible for identifying gaps in capability and to build consensus on
security issues.

The report is published in advance of the expected national security strategy
document being drawn up by the Cabinet Office.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 18, 2008 Monday

Indonesia: Bali police say 15 Feb grenade attack not "terrorism"

LENGTH: 261 words


Excerpt from report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta
Post English-language website on 16 February

Bali Police spokesperson Senior Commissioner Reniban on Saturday [16 Feb] said
eight people had been questioned over a bomb attack in Denpasar the previous
night, including two victims.

Komang Suparmadi and his driver Dewa were heading to the Queen Karaoke club on
Jalan Kebo Iwa when a home-made bomb was hurled at their car. [Note: On 18
February 2008 the Bali Post quoted Senior Commissioner Reniban as saying police
discovered that the attackers threw a grenade, not a 'home-made bomb'.]

The two are being treated at Denpasar's Sanglah General Hospital for massive
burns.

The blast left about 20 holes in Suparmadi's car and an eight centimetre wide,
nine centimetre deep crater next to the car.

It also caused damage to a garage located just a few metres behind the car.

Police are not jumping to any conclusions.

"It is a criminal case and definitely not a case of terrorism. But we must admit
to not having pinpointed the motive," Reniban said.

He listed gang violence, a business disagreement or 'personal issues' as
possible motives. [passages omitted on unrelated detail]

[On 17 February 2008, Tempo Interactive reported that the Chief of Bali Police,
Inspector General Paulus Purwoko, suspected the motive behind the attack was the
replacement of a Security Unit (Satpam) at the Queen Karaoke club. One of the
victims injured in the attack is reportedly the owner of the club.]

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 16 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               February 18, 2008

United Nations: Security Council press statement on Kandahar terrorist attack

LENGTH: 300 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-FEBRUARY 18, 2008-United Nations: Security Council press statement
on Kandahar terrorist attack ©1994-2008 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following Security Council press statement was issued today by Council
President Ricardo Alberto Arias ( Panama):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the suicide
attack that caused numerous deaths in the province of Kandahar, Afghanistan, on
17 February. They noted with dismay that this terrorist attack was one of the
deadliest in Afghanistan in recent years and targeted innocent civilians,
including children, and police officers.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims, as well as to the people and the Government of Afghanistan. They
underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors
of this reprehensible act of terrorism to justice, and urged all States to
cooperate actively with the Afghan authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their concern at the increasing
threat to the local population, national security forces, international military
and international assistance efforts posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida, illegal
armed groups, criminals and those involved in the narcotics trade.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that no terrorist act can reverse
the path towards peace, democracy and reconstruction in Afghanistan, which is
supported by the people and the Government of Afghanistan and the international
community.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     February 19, 2008 Tuesday 5:33 PM BST

MAN JAILED FOR URGING TERROR ATTACKS ON ACCOUNTANCY BODIES

BYLINE: John-Paul Ford Rojas, PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 657 words


A man who bore a ``festering grudge'' against professional accountancy bodies
was jailed for two years today for urging Muslims to launch terror attacks on
them.

Malcolm Hodges nursed his brooding resentment for more than a decade after
failing a professional exam.

Today the 44-year-old, of London Road, Teynham, Sittingbourne, Kent, pleaded
guilty to recklessly encouraging terrorism at the Old Bailey.

The court heard that in November 2006 he sent identical letters to dozens of
mosques around the UK claiming that he was a follower of Osama bin Laden.

He told them: ``Brothers, you are right to kill the infidels but you are making
a mistake to try to attack planes and other targets.''

Hodges said the ``infidels'' were expecting such places to be attacked and they
should turn their attentions elsewhere.

Instead they should focus their ``jihad'' on four organisations connected to
``the corrupt and Western society which are abhorrent to true believers, which
the infidels, in their arrogance, will not expect to be attacked''.

These were: The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute
of Management Accountants and the Chartered Institute of Public Finance
Accountants.

Hodges wrote: ``Brothers, striking at these targets will be striking at the
infidels where it hurts most and each of these targets was formed and is led by
the Queen of England.

``These targets are also full of swine and apes as they are crammed full of
Jews, so striking against these targets is a strike against Israel and will take
us closer to wiping Israel from the map.''

Paul Taylor, prosecuting, said: ``This is an offence borne of a festering grudge
against the ACCA.''

Hodges had never accepted the fact that he failed a professional ACCA exam in
1993 and had been in dispute with the organisation ever since.

He told employers that he was in fact a qualified accountant, resulting in a
disciplinary hearing in 1998, resulting in him losing his student membership of
the body and being ordered to pay costs of £387.

In January 2000, he was jailed for ten weeks after sending a fax threatening to
kill an ACCA official who was pursuing him for the money.

Mr Taylor told the court: ``A picture emerges of a man brooding over his sense
of unjust treatment.''

When he was arrested in April last year after sending the letters as well as
copies of it faxed to various commercial organisations, Hodges told police: ``I
am surprised it took you so long.''

He claimed that he never wanted to hurt anyone but instead to attract the
media's attention to the ``corruption and dishonesty of the ACCA''.

The court heard that the body took the threats seriously and spent more than
£140,000 on security measures.

David Burgess, defending, said Hodges had nursed his obsession for 15 years and
even sent letters to the Royal Family, the Prime Minister, and the Chancellor
seeking redress for the ``grave injustice'' done to him.

He was due to be married in May last year but when he was arrested a month
before, his fiancee returned home to the United States.

Jailing Hodges, Judge Jeremy Roberts said: ``There was a real risk that if one
of your letters had fallen into the wrong hands there might have been a
terrorist atrocity and people might have been killed or seriously injured.''

``If that had happened, you would have been largely responsible for it.''

But he accepted Hodges suffered from a ``seriously abnormal mental condition''
likely to be ``some form of personality disorder''.

``It is clear that your view of the world is entirely self-centred and
blinkered,'' the judge said.

He added: ``It is very sad to see a basically respectable person like you in the
dock at this court. You have ruined your own life over the last few years.''

The judge told Hodges that despite his problems he was intelligent enough to
obtain and hold down a job in an accounts department on his release.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Laois Nationalist

                               February 20, 2008

Children terrorised in horrific attack on family

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 639 words


AN ARMED gang of five men terrorised a family and threatened to rape a young
woman in a violent and terrifying raid on a Graiguecullen family in the early
hours of Monday morning last.

The horrific events happened at the Doran home in Fruithill, Graiguecullen and
gardaí have appealed for witnesses.

Suggestions that the attack may have been part of a family feud were ruled out
by Ann Doran.

"It's not a family feud, most definitely not," said Ann who is a daughter of
Miley Doran. Miley Doran is 85 years of age and is well-known in the area. He
was hospitalised after the attack and his family say he suffered a heart attack
due to the vicious attack at his family home.

The family's ordeal began at about 2am when the gang forced in the back door of
the house. Miley snr, who was sleeping in the bedroom nearest the door,
attempted to block the men's entry. He struck one of the men in the face but
they overpowered him and forced him back into his bedroom.

"They had a kit bag with a gun, bats and slash hooks. They had plastic ties and
they tied up all the children, the youngest was Sarah Jane, aged 4," said Ann.

She said the gang then broke into the mobile home of Miley Doran jnr in the yard
adjoining the family home and dragged him, his wife Kitty, and their four-month
old son back to the house.

"They broke into Paddy and Maggie Doran's caravan as well and dragged them back
in to the house," said Ann.

They then turned their attention back to Miley snr. "Sir we have no money," he
pleaded, said his daughter.

She said Miley jnr was held in a separate bedroom and his wife Kitty was also
dragged in to the room. He was covered in blood. They stuck a screwdriver into
his head and demanded that Kitty bring them the money, said Ann.

She said the raiders held the four-month-old baby upside-down by the legs and
threatened to injure the child as Miley pleaded with them to stop.

One of the raiders then sliced Miley's cheek "from his mouth to his ear" with a
large knife in front of his terrified wife and they also broke his leg with a
bat.

Paddy Doran was then brought in and kicked in the face. His nose was broken.
Paddy pleaded with the men to leave the children alone. They then sliced Paddy's
face, again in front of the women and children.

The thugs then dragged Kitty into the hall and said to Miley snr: "Do you think
anything of this girl? To which Miley replied "I do, I love her."

One of the thugs then held Kitty's hand down and tried to cut off her fingers
with a knife but Kitty wrestled her hand free. They then dragged her outside
into the yard threatening to rape her if Miley did not hand over the money.

The raiders finally left the family home with an undisclosed sum of money. All
the family were still tied up at this stage. Five-year-old Paddy released his
mother and the family sought help immediately.

"If these men are not got then God help the next family, they'll kill them. All
they want is money. They beat Miley and beat him and beat him. They are vicious,
dangerous people. My father has had a heart attack and could be dead tomorrow.
They cut the phone lines, the electricity; they took all the mobile phones. They
are dangerous people." Ann said.

"This is absolutely not a family feud," said Sergeant Benny Mills of Carlow
Garda Station which is investigating the attack.

"The Dorans were an innocent family and they are deeply traumatised by a
horrendous crime. We are not going down the road of a family feud. It was no
such thing," he added.

Having originally been rushed to St Luke's Hospital in Kilkenny Miley jnr and
Paddy Doran have been transferred to St James's Hospital in Dublin where they
are undergoing surgery to their faces. The wounds were stitched in Kilkenny.

Miley Doran snr has suffered a heart attack and is currently in a critical
condition in hospital. The family are deeply traumatised.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday

Family's brick attack terror

BYLINE: Catherine Pye

SECTION: SHADSWORTH NEWS (SHADSWORTH)

LENGTH: 388 words


A MOTHER and daughter said they thought terrorists were attacking them when a
brick was thrown through their window in the early hours.

Pensioner Irene Toner and her daughter Susan Toner, 50, were watching a film on
terrorism in their house in Shadsworth Road, Blackburn, when the missile smashed
the kitchen window at about 12.15am.

A piece of glass from the broken window grazed Susan's head.

The family is mystified by the attack but in the weeks before the incident a
letter was pushed through the door warning them that they could be subject to
attack.

It said: Watch your back someone not far from you is after your house and also a
lot of slander about you both in the close. It is not fair what is being done to
you both. I felt I had to let you know.' Irene said: "We'd been up watching a
film on terrorists when all of a sudden I heard a loud bang. I thought it was a
bomb going off, and because of the film, terrorists.

"It was a huge brick that had come through the kitchen window. It smashed all
the ornaments on the window sill including the buddhas I collect.

"It flew a long way through the house and just missed Susan's head because she
was sitting in the direct line of the window. I don't really know how it missed.

"With the weight of it, if it had hit her it could have been fatal."

Susan said: "It's made a right mess. Everything near the kitchen window has been
broken. I've tried gluing the buddhas back together but it's no use - they're
ruined.

"My mum suffers from asthma and had a really bad do just after the incident. The
stress got to her and she's not been completely right ever since."

Irene added: "No one else gets their windows broken round here - I reckon it's
because we don't live with a man.

"We've been here 13 years and never bothered anyone. All we do is watch the
television and go shopping.

"But whoever is reponsible must know that we will not put up with it."

The police have confirmed that a brick was thrown through the window of the
house just after midnight on Sunday. A description of a white male in his 40s
with close-cropped hair was given to the police by Irene after she saw him
staring through the window after the incident.

Anyone with information on the incident, contact Crimestoppers anonymously on
0800 555 111 or ring 0845 1 25 35 45.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               February 21, 2008

Chatham House: Robertson Warns Of New Terror Attacks If NATO Fails In
Afghanistan

LENGTH: 421 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-FEBRUARY 21, 2008-Chatham House: Robertson Warns Of New Terror
Attacks If NATO Fails In Afghanistan ©1994-2008 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Lord Robertson of Port Ellen today issued a stark warning that a repeat of 9/11
or 7/7 is inevitable if NATO fails in its mission in Afghanistan. Failure, he
said, is a distinct possibility if there continues to be different levels of
military commitment from NATO members.

In a speech to senior military and defence figures at Chatham House, Lord
Robertson, a former NATO Secretary-General, said that if the Taliban is allowed
to regain influence and power we should be in no doubt that 'the merchants of
bloodshed would be back in business'.

'There can be no two-tier alliance', Lord Robertson said, 'there cannot be one
tier for those to carry the burdens and the bloody sacrifice and a tier for
those who benefit from that contribution. Collective security is what it means -
collective. No more, no less.' He said that 'all countries share the prize [of
security, safety and solidarity], so all countries must pay the price'.

He also strongly praised the troops who serve and have served Afghanistan. He
said they need to know that 'their country values and appreciates their
sacrifice'. He added that 'the sacrifices still being made will be for nothing
at all if we stand by and let evil prevail in Afghanistan today'. He said that
we must 'never forget that where they serve, so far away from their homes, is
today's front line in our own national defence'.

Read Lord Robertson's speech here:
http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/files/11010_210208robertson.pdf

NOTES TO EDITORS:

Thursday 21 - Friday 22 February, Chatham House Security and Defence Futures -
Possibilities and Practicalities

http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/events/conferences/view/-/id/110/

The conference was due to take place under the Chatham House Rule but Lord
Robertson has requested that his speech be made available to the media.

He will not be available for further comment or interview.

To enable as open a debate as possible, the rest of the conference will be held
under the Chatham House Rule and filming will not be permitted.

CONTACT: Keith Burnet, Chatham House Tel: +44 (0)20 7314 2798 Tel: +44 (0)7714
200 920 e-mail: pressoffice@chathamhouse.org.uk

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

Singapore: Terror attack possible for mere 10,000 US dollars, expert says

LENGTH: 458 words


Text of report by Singapore newspaper The Straits Times website on 22 February

[Report by Chong Chee Kin: "Cost to stage terror attack in S-E Asia? As little
as $14,000"]

But damage of attack to properties and businesses could run into millions of
dollars, says expert

IT COSTS as little as $10US,000 ($14S,100) for terrorists to stage a bomb attack
in South-east Asia, but the cost of the damage to properties and businesses can
spiral into the millions.

Terrorism expert Rohan Gunaratna said high-profile bombings in Bali and Jakarta
in recent years cost between $10US,000 and $40US,000 -spare change compared to
the millions insurgents can muster every month.

Dr Gunaratna, who heads the International Centre for Political Violence and
Terrorism Research here, made the comments yesterday after a conference
organized by insurance giant Lloyd's. The discussion was one in a series
organized by the firm for insurers and business leaders around the world.

Speaking to The Straits Times after the conference, Dr Gunaratna said the risk
of an attack in Singapore is very low as 'the security forces here have been
doing a very good job'.

However, he said that many terrorist groups remain in the region. Jemaah
Islamiah, which has close links to Al-Qaeda, remains active in Indonesia. The
group was responsible for a series of attacks in South-east Asia between 2000
and 2005, including the 2002 bombing in Bali and an attack on the Australian
Embassy in Jakarta in 2005.

Dr Gunaratna said that while Jemaah Islamiah members had run businesses here in
the past, 'the links have since been dismantled'.

Lloyd's chief executive officer, Mr Richard Ward, said that the main danger to
South-east Asian businesses is their proximity to Western targets, such as
embassies and hotels. Terrorists, though, could also strike the transport routes
and supply chains of companies.

'If a company's supply chain is attacked or shut down, it simply cannot survive.
While many businesses are aware of possible attacks on their premises and take
precautions to avoid this, too few take into account their operating systems and
transport routes,' Mr Ward said.

Crucial to managing the risks is the need for businesses to tap the expertise of
academics and non-governmental organizations, he said.

Intelligence agencies should also build up their 'human intelligence capacities'
-getting information through a network of people rather than surveillance
equipment.

Terror groups are becoming increasingly aware of the high-tech gear governments
are using to search them out. 'It is getting increasingly difficult to track
them because they know they can be traced easily when they use high-tech
equipment,' he said.

Source: The Straits Times website, Singapore, in English 22 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday

Philippine military warns JI terrorists likely to stage retaliatory attacks

LENGTH: 309 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Manila Times website on 23
February

[Report by Al Jacinto: "Terrorists in new bombing plotgeneral"]

ZAMBOANGA CITY: The military on Friday warned that terrorists may launch a
series of attacks on Metro Manila in retaliation for the killing of a Jemaah
Islamiah bomber in the country's troubled Mindanao region.

Army Maj. Gen. Fernando Mesa said the Indonesia-based terror group is plotting
to bomb key areas in the Philippines' premier region.

Radio and television reports quoted Mesa as saying that the alleged plot was
unearthed by military intelligence.

"Citing information reaching him, Mesa said the (terror group's) targets in
Metro Manila include the United States Embassy and other foreign embassies, the
Light and Metro Rail Transit systems, oil depots, bus terminals, shopping malls,
piers, airports, and other soft targets," according to a report by GMA 7
television.

Military officials in Southern Philippines had said soldiers recovered the body
of man thought to be of Dulmatin in Tawi-Tawi Province last week.

But DNA tests by the Philippine National Police and the US Federal Bureau of
Investigation have yet confirm whether the body was really that of Dulmatin,
allegedly a planner of the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people, including
88 Australians, 25 Britons and seven US Americans.

Another Bali bomber, Umar Patek, is believed hiding in Sulu Province or
Tawi-Tawi under the protection of the local Abu Sayyaf, a group of extremists
engaged in kidnapping.

Earlier this month, Philippine authorities claimed to have uncovered a plot by
the Jemaah Islamiah, the Abu Sayyaf, the communist New People's Army and the
Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) to assassinate President Gloria Arroyo. The
MILF denied the allegation.

Source: The Manila Times website, Manila, in English 23 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                            February 25, 2008 Monday

Elderly couple's terror after vandalism attack

BYLINE: Katie Clark

SECTION: LATEST NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words


AN elderly couple have been left frightened and shaken after a large piece of
concrete was thrown through the window into their front room late on Friday
night.

The incident has left the pair so upset they are applying to move into sheltered
accommodation in order to feel safer.

Freda Cooper and her husband Jim, 87, were fast asleep when they were woken by a
loud crashing noise at their house in Frost Road, West Howe at 11.30pm.

Nervously leaving her bedroom, Freda searched the rest of the house before
opening the door to the living room and discovering the damage.

Freda, 84, said: "I didn't put the light on when I went into the room but I trod
on something and knew that the noise must have come from here.

"The table that my husband does his jigsaws on was flipped across the room,
there was glass everywhere and a big chunk of my side table was missing where
the chunk of concrete had struck it.

"The rock must have been thrown with some force as it reached the other side of
the room. If my husband had been sat in his chair who knows what would have
happened."

But this is not the first time the couple have experienced this type of
vandalism as two years ago a bottle was thrown through their bedroom window.

"I could cope with what happened last time as I thought it was a one-off, but I
am afraid now," Freda added.

"The doctor prescribed me some tranquillisers this morning as I am up all night,
looking through the window unable to sleep.

"We don't know why someone would do this. We keep ourselves to ourselves and
don't interfere with anyone. My husband is an invalid so he feels very helpless
that he couldn't do anything. I don't think I can stay here. I will always be
waiting for it to happen again."

Anyone with any information should contact the police on 01202 222 222.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday

Four Algerian soldiers wounded in terrorist attack on convoy - paper

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by Djaffar Tamani headlined "Yakouren (Tizi Ouzou): Bomb attack
on a military convoy", published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 27 February

Two bombs exploded yesterday at about 1700 [local time] as a military convoy
drove past on National Road [RN] 12, 7 km east of the main town of Yakouren.

At least four wounded were reported among the soldiers, according to the initial
indications. The People's National Army [ANP] convoy had been heading towards
the Zekri region, where a major military presence has been in place since last
Thursday for the launch of a large-scale search operation. The two bombs had
been planted by the sides of the road, between the village of Tizi Tghidhet and
the Zekri intersection, on the road linking Azazga with Bejaia, about 60 km east
of Tizi Ouzou.

The homemade devices were triggered remotely, according to the same modus
operandi used by the terrorists in the attacks targeting the security agencies'
movements. The military resources that have been engaged in the search in that
major maquis on the border between the provinces of Tizi Ouzou and Bejaia were
beefed up in recent days by elite troops backed up by helicopter-borne units.
Village residents of the community indicated that the bombing continued during
the day yesterday, targeting the maquis of Bounaamane, Ait Abdelmoumene, and Ait
Ali.

The terrorist hideout of Beni Ksila, in the far west of the province of Bejaia,
were equally targeted by the ANP's shelling. The military forces that are
engaged in this operation had already sustained losses at the beginning of the
week. A soldier was killed and two others wounded in the explosion of a bomb in
the middle of the hideout. A municipal guard from Zekri also had one leg
amputated by the explosion, according to local sources. From the same source
there is the report that devices adapted to the terrain have been mobilized by
the ANP in order to go over the mountainous region with a fine-toothed comb, as
this area is known to have sheltered groups from the Salafi Group for Call and
Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic
Maghreb, or AQLIM] for many years.

No official report has been made public at the end of several days of search,
but it is being indicated from sources close to the forces that are engaged in
this operation that several bodies of terrorists who were burned to a crisp have
been found in the Bounaamane mountainous area.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 27 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday

Algerian municipal guard killed, two wounded in terrorist attack - paper

LENGTH: 366 words


Text of report by special Tablat correspondent Mustapha Benfodil headlined
"Terrorist attack kills one in Tablat", published by privately-owned Algerian
newspaper El Watan website on 27 February

One municipal guard was killed and two others were wounded on Monday [25
February] night into Tuesday morning in the area known as Khoukhta, a hamlet
reporting administratively to the municipality of Les Deux Bassins, in the
administrative district of Tablat, 60 or so km to the southeast of Algiers.

They were surprised by a terrorist attack that targeted their barracks late at
night. "It was close to midnight when I heard sustained fire coming from the
hamlet of Khoukhta," an elderly shepherd said whom we met not far from the scene
of the attack. "The municipal guards are all from Tablat. One of them is in
serious condition, the speaker of the Municipal People's Assembly [P/APC] and
the chief of the administrative district on the scene," an employee of the
municipality of Tablat told us.

We attempted to return to the scene of the tragedy. It must be said that we were
there almost by chance in connection with a reporting assignment. As we tried to
move towards the hamlet of Khoukhta, we were greatly surprised to come across a
veritable armada of military trucks and other Gendarmerie and police
reinforcements. We were prevented - this is understandable - from going any
further and no member of the General Staff who was thus mobilized on the ground
would provide us with a news report about what had really happened.

The spectacle of such a deployment, added to the numerous accounts that were
gathered from the local population, tells us a lot about the persistence of
"pockets" of insecurity in that mountainous massif with inextricable terrorist
hideouts. The population of Les Deux Bassins, like that of Tablat and the
surrounding hamlets that report administratively to the province of Medea, was
deeply shaken yesterday by this terrorist attack that plunged the region back
into the traumatic memory of the 1990s when the emirs reigned as masters of the
Titteri area and when the Tablet road was infested with bogus roadblocks.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 27 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday

Separatist minister reports of terrorist attack in Georgia's South Ossetia

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by pro-separatist South Ossetian Press and Information Committee
website on 28 February

28 February: A terrorist attack took place in [Georgia's breakaway] republic of
South Ossetia. South Ossetian interior minister Mikhail Mindzayev told the Res
news agency that "an explosive system disguised as a TV set detonated at the
South Ossetian police post in the village of Kokhati at about 1225 gmt. It had
been left at the post by passers-by, who were presumably of Georgian
nationality. Several people were killed and wounded in the blast. Their number
is being specified".

Kokhati is one of the remote Ossetian villages in the Tskhinvali district of the
republic of South Ossetia.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 28 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          February 28, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

Bay skyscraper will be Wales' tallest building;
Flats to be protected against terror attacks

BYLINE: Gareth Rogers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words


THE tallest building in Wales will be built in Cardiff Bay after a pounds 500m
high-rise development was given the go-ahead.

But police have warned developers Bay Pointe they have to safeguard the largest
tower, standing 127 metres, against terror threats with bollards, steel walls
and crash-proof barriers.

A meeting of Cardiff council's planning committee yesterday voted unanimously to
allow several of the project's conditions to be varied, granting outline
planning permission to the development, which has been down-scaled from three
towers to two on the banks of the River Ely.

The Bay Pointe development at the International Sports Village in Cardiff Bay
will see pounds 1.8m handed over to the council to improve access to the site.

Transport officer Peter Davison told the City Hall meeting yesterday: "There is
no need for any more highway investments in this area, we need to think about
public transport access.

"We must look at how we can get buses, taxis, water taxis and rail access there
and this investment should give us a great opportunity."

The six voting councillors agreed unanimously that the environmental and visual
impact of the two towers were acceptable and in context with the current and
planned structures in the sports village.

Chief planning officer Sean Hammarby said: "We have had robust negotiations with
the developers and this is the best deal that is on the table."

The towers, which will average 10 flats per floor, will be higher than Penarth
Head and the planned sports village casino, but are smaller than originally
suggested.

Mike Turner, 34, who lives in Penarth Marina, said: "I am worried that this will
look quite ugly when it is all up.

"At the moment the Bay looks quite nice but this will change it completely."

Planning officer Norman Howlett said: "This is the biggest high-rise water's
edge development in Cardiff and we will insist that the design is absolutely
top-notch at the next stage.

"It will be highly glazed and will blend as well as possible into the
surrounding areas."

Detailed planning permission will now be sought by Bay Pointe Limited and their
development partners Allied Developments (Europe) Limited and City Lofts Group
for the development, which they hope will be completed by 2014.

DEVELOPERS TO PROVIDE:

A new foot and cycle bridge across the River ElytoPenarth.

Access toCogan Railway Station from Cardiff Bay.

Apontoon for water buses and taxis.

A community centre.

More than 270 affordable homes in the 34-and 26-storey towers.

gareth.rogers@mediawales.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE HIGH LIFE Chris Hamilton, managing director of Bay Pointe Ltd, with
a model showing how the development will look.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                            February 29, 2008 Friday

Terrorist sang about attack to school pupils

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A Terrorist who planned a bomb attack on London sang about blowing people up to
children at a Crowborough school, it has been revealed.

Atilla Ahmet, who pleaded guilty to three counts of soliciting to murder was
taped singing to pupils at Jameah Islameah in Mark Cross two weeks before the
planned attack on London in July 2005.

He sang: "Come mister Taliban, come bomb England, before the daylight come you
wanna see 10 Downing Street done" to the tune of Harry Belafonte's innocuous
Banana Boat Song.

British-born Ahmet, 43, had also said at a meeting in April 2006, that the
Houses of Parliament were a legitimate terrorist target along with "the big
people, the MPs, the police, the Army, the solicitors".

Ahmet, of Knowles Hill Crescent, Lewisham, is part of a group convicted of
terrorism offences headed by Mohammed Hamid, 50, from Clapton, who demanded his
followers carry out an atrocity more devastating than the attacks of July 7, in
which 52 people were killed.

Hamid dubbed himself Osama bin London and took his disciples on paint-balling
trips to Springwood centre, near Tonbridge, where police believe they practised
Army ambush drills.

The visit to Springwood was filmed by BBC journalists for a documentary called
Don't Panic I'm Islamic, believing it was a harmless fun weekend.

Some of the corporation's most senior journalists later refused to contact the
police when Hamid told filmmakers he knew the identities of the July 21 bombers,
London's Woolwich Crown Court heard.

The BBC hit back at the criticism it faced in court.

It said in a statement: "We have thoroughly investigated the matter and have
found absolutely no evidence to support the claims."

Hamid was last week convicted of three counts of soliciting to murder at three
separate meetings at his home, and three charges of providing terrorist training
in the Home Counties.

Details only emerged on Tuesday  when a judge lifted a reporting ban after three
other members of his gang were jailed. Ahmet and Hamid are expected to be
sentenced on Friday March 7.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 1, 2008 Saturday

Libya condemns "terrorist" attacks on Gaza

LENGTH: 170 words


Libya condemned the Israeli attacks against the Gaza Strip and called on Arab
states and the international community to put an end to the current
"mass-killing" in a statement made by the Libyan General People's Committee for
Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation (Ministry of Foreign Affairs),
Libyan TV reported at 1930.

Calling on Arab countries and the international community to tackle the attacks
against Gaza, the ministry's statement said: "We condemn these acts, described
by the Israelis themselves as a Holocaust that targets everybody in Gaza, and
call for [taking] a firm Arab stance to stop these criminal acts. We also call
on the international community to shoulder its responsibilities to put a limit
to this mass-killing."

The statement added that the Israeli actions in Gaza prove that "what is called
peace in the Middle East is deception aimed at covering up the incessant
genocide which is carried out against the Palestinian people".

Source: Libyan TV, Tripoli, in Arabic 1930 gmt 1 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             March 1, 2008 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Terror attacks warning;
The World Today

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 76 words


THE prince's role in Afghanistan could provoke terror attacks on Britain,
radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammad warned.

The preacher said Harry's presence in Afghanistan was a "crime". Speaking from
the Lebanon, he said film of Harry fighting the Taliban would radicalise young
British Muslims.

And he warned the prince could be a target for militants. He said the Prince had
become an "ambassador of war" unlike his mother who had been an "ambassador of
peace".

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             March 1, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Attack terror for woman, 79 on doorstep Thug breaks her shoulder and ties her up
in raid bid

BYLINE: DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 236 words


A HOODED thief broke a 79-year-old woman's shoulder and tied her up in her home
- then took just a jar of coins.

But the robber was shocked when the woman's 47-year-old son returned home and he
dropped the jar before running off.

The "vicious and despicable" assault happened after the woman opened the door of
her house in Parkview Avenue, Kirkintilloch.

Her shoulder was broken when the wouldbe raider knocked her to the ground and
then tied up her up.

He ransacked the house looking for cash.

It was only when the woman's son returned home that the robber was interrupted.

He managed to run out of the house and escape, but without any items from the
home.

An ambulance was called and the woman, who wishes to remain anonymous, was
treated at the scene before being taken toGlasgow Royal Infirmary. She was
allowed home after treatment.

The victim and her son were too upset to talk about the attack, which took place
on Thursday at 3.30pm.

Detective Constable Martin Davies, of Kirkintilloch CID, said: "This was a
vicious and despicable attack on a vulnerable person. She is very distressed and
now fears for her safety in her home.

"I would ask anyone who has any information about this crime, no matter how
trivial they think it may be, to call me."

The man was aged 1830 and about 5ft 4in. He was wearing a hooded top, pulled
round his face.

Anyone with information should call 0141 532 4400 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2008 Monday

Algerian policeman killed in terror attack on Tizi Ouzou bank

LENGTH: 405 words


Text of report by Nordine Douici headlined " Policeman Killed in an Attack on a
Bank in Tizi Ouzou " published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 3 March

A major terrorist group attacked the financial agencies at 2340 in Tizi Rached
town, 21 kilometres from Tizi Ouzou.

A dozen individuals armed with Kalashnikovs and grenades entered the city,
killing a policeman in front of the mosque. According to [eyewitnesses']
accounts, the policeman was surprised by another group that was shutting down
the city's western end. He was killed with his own weapon, which the attackers
had confiscated from him. He was on his way to the police station located about
300 meters from the police residence, where he was staying. The impact of the
bullets was still visible on a metal plate as well as the traces of the victim's
blood.

The first target was the Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (BADR).
According to reliable sources, the opening of the banking agency was supposed to
occur this week. This suggests that the terrorists had been enticed by this
particular news. With the help of three grenades, the door was totally blown
away. Inside the bank, walls and furniture sustained damage too. About 50 meters
from there, the security door of the post office was broken down by two other
grenades. Glass and steel debris littered the floor. The criminals came in and
emptied the coffers. Local sources are talking of a sum not exceeding one
million centimes that was reportedly stolen. Moreover all roads leading to the
downtown (Tlatha) were blocked by members of the group, eyewitnesses stated.
"They were wearing police bullet-proof vests, military uniforms, and others were
in civilian clothes. Wearing no masks, they merely asked us to go back home.

The two Algerian Water Company [ADE] guards were also ordered to leave the
agency. "The wall separating the agency from the ADE and the bank collapsed
after the explosion. Gunfire was heard some time before 0100. The attackers
reportedly fled on a Renault vehicle registered in Boumerdes which was waiting
for them, it seems, at the edge of the city.

According to other accounts, the terrorists arrived on two vehicles, a Citroen
C5 and another Peugeot 505 stolen in Abouda, in Larbaa Nath Irathen, during a
funeral the day before yesterday [ 1 March]. The Tizi Rached attack lasted close
to

Half an hour.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 3 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 March 3, 2008

United Nations: Secretary-General Describes 'Deeply Alarming Escalation Of
Violence' In Gaza, Southern Israel, Terrible Civilian Death Toll, As He Briefs
Security Council; Palestine Observer Pleads with Council to Uphold International
Law; Israel Reiterates Determination to Protect Citizens from Hamas' Terror
Attacks

LENGTH: 3548 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MARCH 3, 2008-United Nations: Secretary-General Describes 'Deeply
Alarming Escalation Of Violence' In Gaza, Southern Israel, Terrible Civilian
Death Toll, As He Briefs Security Council; Palestine Observer Pleads with
Council to Uphold International Law; Israel Reiterates Determination to Protect
Citizens from Hamas' Terror Attacks ©1994-2008 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told an emergency meeting of the
Security Council this evening that, since last Wednesday, there had been a
"deeply alarming escalation of violence in Gaza and southern Israel, and a
terrible civilian death toll", and the scenes from Gaza today had been
"particularly disturbing".

He said that, according to press reports, some 117 rockets, including 26 today,
had been fired from Gaza at southern Israel, killing one Israeli civilian in
Sederot and injuring five others in Ashkelon, including women and children.

Reports and Israeli Government sources had said that rockets fired at Ashkelon
were not home-made Qassams, but of advanced Katyusha-like design, allegedly
smuggled into Gaza when the border with Egypt had been breached.

The Israel Defense Forces had also launched air and land attacks on Gaza,
killing an estimated 90 Palestinians, among them many civilians, and injuring
hundreds. According to United Nations estimates, 59 Palestinians had been killed
today, including 39 civilians. He stressed that there were many conflicting
reports on the number of casualties, and those figures were not confirmed.

The Secretary-General placed blame on both sides, calling on them to cease the
violence and restore order. "I condemn Palestinian rocket attacks and call for
the immediate cessation of such acts of terrorism, which serve no purpose,
endanger Israeli civilians and bring misery to the Palestinian people," he said.
"While recognizing Israel's right to defend itself, I condemn the
disproportionate and excessive use of force that has killed and injured so many
civilians, including children. Israel must fully comply with international
humanitarian law and exercise the utmost constraint.

Incidents in which civilians have been killed or injured must be investigated
and accountability must be ensured."

The Secretary-General also expressed his deep concern that the violence could
escalate and impact the negotiation process.

"I call on all parties to step back from the brink of even deeper and more
deadly clashes," he said. He pledged the United Nations strong support and said
he had spoken to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, Israeli Foreign Minister
Tzipi Livni and League of Arab States Secretary-General Amre Moussa. The
international community, important stakeholders and Council members must do
their part by exercising their influence on the parties to stop the violence and
allow humanitarian relief to reach those in need, he said.

Riyad Mansour, the Permanent Observer of Palestine, stressing that the situation
in Gaza was dramatically deteriorating, pleaded with the Council to uphold
international law, its own resolutions and the United Nations Charter, as its
ongoing paralysis was "wholly unjustifiable". The Council's lack of action had
only perpetrated more war crimes against innocent civilians, as evidenced by the
past week's violent events.

The Palestinian death toll in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, particularly
the Gaza Strip, was rising rapidly as a result of the "brutal" military assaults
carried out by Israel against civilians, he said, noting that, today alone, at
least 60 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli military attacks in the
northern Gaza Strip. It had also been reported that more than 150 Palestinians
had been wounded by Israeli occupying forces in the latest round of attacks.

"The Council cannot continue to be sidelined as this crisis continues to
escalate," he stressed, adding that the Council must uphold its Charter
responsibilities and demand the utmost respect for international humanitarian
law, which was to provide innocent civilians with protection in situations of
foreign occupation, and condemn the killing of civilians and the violence. Gaza
was barely surviving under conditions of severe duress due to Israel's unlawful
closure of all border crossings, obstruction of humanitarian supplies and lethal
military campaign. Hospitals in Gaza were making all efforts to treat the
wounded, but Israeli occupying forces continued to target medical rescue teams.
Despite his delegation's warnings to the Council, no action had been taken to
stem the violence, he said, adding that, since the beginning of February, Israel
had killed more than 126 Palestinians.

The international community was "in clear concurrence" about what was needed to
advance the process towards a just, lasting and comprehensive peace, he said.
United Nations Special Coordinator and Personal Representative of the
Secretary-General, Robert Serry, and the Under-Secretary General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, John Holmes, had briefed
the Council on the critical situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

Immediate and real action was needed. He also highlighted a recent threat by
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister to inflict a "holocaust" among Palestinians in
Gaza, saying such threats must be viewed with "utmost seriousness" and be
vehemently condemned.

Israel's representative, Daniel Carmon, told the Council that Israel indeed had
the right, as well as the duty, to defend its people and land against Hamas'
"malicious vision". More than 250,000 Israeli citizens were in the range of
Hamas' deadly and murderous weapons. "The Government of Israel should not
apologize for protecting its citizens." Israel had addressed the situation for a
very long time, he said, pointing to the many letters sent this week to the
Council, expressing alarm and concern with Hamas' attacks and reiterating
Israel's determination to protect its people.

"This is our right. This is the right of all States to act in self-defence, in
accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter," he said.

He said that, two days ago, the Secretary-General had condemned Hamas' rocket
fire against Israel and called on Hamas and other terrorist and militant groups
to cease all acts of violence and terrorism. The Secretary-General had also
called on Israel to exercise maximum constraint. While Israel had complied with
that restraint for many months now, Hamas had shown no intention of ceasing its
attacks. On the contrary, in the past week, since Hamas had failed to organize a
provocative demonstration in Gaza, it had dramatically escalated rocket attacks
against Israelis, using grad missiles, Katyusha rockets, mortar shells and
Qassams. Since Wednesday, more than 150 rockets had been fired at Israel, dozens
in the past 24 hours.

Hamas' activity could only be described as terrorism, he said. Hamas was a
terrorist group backed by United Nations Member States who denied the very basic
principles set by the international community to cease terrorist acts, recognize
Israel and abide by previous agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.
Hamas not only sought to kill Israelis, it had no concern for its own civilians,
using them as human shields when firing rockets from populated areas. Hamas'
true vision was the extermination of the State of Israel and not to live
peacefully side by side with Israel, he said, adding that some States in the
region, such as Iran, shared that vision.

The meeting started at 8:30 p.m. and adjourned at 9:07 p.m.

Background

The Security Council met this evening on the situation in the Middle East,
including the Palestinian question, at the request of Libya (document
S/2008/142).

Statements

BAN KI-MOON, United Nations Secretary-General, said that, since last Wednesday,
there had been a "deeply alarming escalation of violence in Gaza and southern
Israel, and a terrible civilian death toll". The scenes in Gaza today had been
particularly disturbing. Some 117 rockets had been fired from Gaza at southern
Israel, including 26 rockets today.

They had been fired at several civilian centres and had extended as far north as
the Israeli city of Ashkelon.

According to press reports and Israeli Government sources, the rockets fired at
Ashkelon had not been not home-made Qassams.

Rather, they were rockets of advanced Katyusha-like design, allegedly smuggled
into Gaza when the border with Egypt was breached. One Israeli civilian had been
killed in Sederot and five civilians were reported injured in Ashkelon today,
including women and children.

During the same period, the Israel Defense Forces had launched attacks from the
air and by land on targets in the Gaza Strip, he said. An estimated 90
Palestinians had been killed, among them many civilians, and hundreds had been
injured. According to United Nations estimates, 59 Palestinians had been killed
today, including 39 civilians, among them three women and five minors, including
an infant. He stressed that there were many conflicting reports on the number of
casualties, and that those figures were not confirmed. There had also been heavy
property damage. Israeli land incursions were now occurring near Jabalaya and
the northern Gaza Strip. Two Israeli soldiers were reported to have been killed
in the fighting.

The Israel Defense Forces reported that it had destroyed a truck carrying 160
rockets.

United Nations sources reported at least four incidents of Israeli fire against
ambulances and medical personnel, he said. The Palestinian Ministry of Health
had issued a call for diesel, in order to operate its ambulances. All United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)
schools had been closed, and many families were trapped inside their houses by
the violence, unable to obtain medical aid or reach safety. He called on Israel
to facilitate full access to hospitals and medical centres for the injured. He
had made clear his concern at the outset of the escalation of violence and had
been diplomatically engaged to press for calm. He had spoken to Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and League of Arab
States Secretary-General Amre Moussa. United Nations agencies on the ground,
especially UNRWA, were continuing their efforts to assist people in grave
distress.

In light of those deeply disturbing developments, "I condemn Palestinian rocket
attacks and call for the immediate cessation of such acts of terrorism, which
serve no purpose, endanger Israeli civilians and bring misery to the Palestinian
people," he said. "I call for an end to these attacks. While recognizing
Israel's right to defend itself, I condemn the disproportionate and excessive
use of force that has killed and injured so many civilians, including children.
I call on Israel to cease such attacks," he said, stressing that " Israel must
fully comply with international humanitarian law and exercise the utmost
constraint. Incidents in which civilians have been killed or injured must be
investigated and accountability must be ensured."

The Secretary-General, expressing his deep concern at the possibility of the
violence escalating, said the United Nations had offered its strong support for
all efforts to end the violence and bring about a period of calm. "I call on all
parties to step back from the brink of even deeper and more deadly clashes," he
said. Further, he expressed his extreme concern over the impacts of such
developments on the negotiation process. He called on all members of the
international community, important stakeholders and Council members to exercise
their influence on the parties to stop the violence and to allow humanitarian
relief to reach those in need. All parties should rededicate their commitment to
the peace process, he said.

The Permanent Observer of Palestine, RIYAD H. MANSOUR, said he was here today to
plead with the Security Council to uphold international law, its own resolutions
and the United Nations Charter, as its ongoing paralysis was "wholly
unjustifiable".

The Council's lack of action had only led to the perpetration of more war crimes
against innocent civilians, as seen in the violent events of the past week. The
Palestinian death toll in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, particularly the
Gaza Strip, was rising rapidly as a result of the "brutal" military assaults
carried out by Israel against civilians. The situation was dramatically
deteriorating. Gaza was barely surviving under conditions of severe duress due
to Israel's unlawful closure of all border crossings, obstruction of
humanitarian supplies and lethal military campaign.

In flagrant breach of article 33 of the Geneva Convention, relative to the
protection of civilians in time of war, Israel continued to punish Palestinian
civilians in Gaza by closing the Territory, obstructing the movement of persons
and goods, and committing military reprisals, he said. Such actions were
prohibited by international law. The humanitarian calamity in Gaza continued to
deepen as a result of the violence, which threatened to derail the fragile peace
process.

Despite his delegation's warnings to the Council, no action had been taken to
stem the violence, he continued, saying that, from the start of February until
today, Israel had killed more than 126 Palestinians, including 19 children, some
only 2 days old. There was no justification for killing innocent civilians. When
the slaughter of children was justified under the pretext of promoting security,
the international community had sunk into a "dark abyss", he said. Surrounded by
death, Palestinian children weretraumatized by the ever present question: "Will
I be next?"

Today alone, at least 60 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli military
attacks in the northern Gaza Strip, he said, while it also had been reported
that more than 150 Palestinians had been wounded by Israeli occupying forces in
the latest round of attacks. Hospitals in Gaza were making all efforts to treat
the wounded. Israeli occupying forces continued to target medical rescue teams.
Also, many of the Palestinians killed and wounded had been casualties of
extrajudicial executions, which also were being carried out in the West Bank. In
the Balata refugee camp in Nablus, Israeli undercover units had killed three
Palestinian men. Such actions were meant to undermine efforts by Palestinian
security forces to establish calm.

The killings of Palestinian civilians had not begun with the killing of an
Israeli in Sderot by rocket fire from Gaza, he asserted, recalling that
reprisals against civilians were strictly prohibited under international law.
The world was witnessing the horrific materialization of repeated threats made
by several Israeli officials. In that context, he highlighted a recent threat by
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister to inflict a "holocaust" among Palestinians in
Gaza.

Such threats must be viewed with "utmost seriousness" and be vehemently
condemned.

Civilians under foreign occupation were entitled to protection, he continued,
adding that there could be no doubt that the acts of aggression committed by
Israel in recent days were flagrant violations of humanitarian law. Real and
immediate measures must be taken to avert the killing of even more innocent
people and the "uncontrollable spiral" of the situation to irreversible depths.

He said such actions could not serve the peace process. They served only to
fully ignite violence. That was an indisputable fact. The peace process was not
divorced from the situation on the ground, and the continuation of the vicious
cycle would only bring more suffering and loss for the Palestinian and Israeli
peoples. That must be a matter of concern for the Council.

The international community was "in clear concurrence" about what was needed to
advance the process towards a just, lasting and comprehensive peace, he said.
United Nations Special Coordinator and Personal Representative of the
Secretary-General, Robert Serry, and the Under-Secretary General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, John Holmes, had briefed
the Council on the critical situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

Immediate and real action was needed.

"The Council cannot continue to be sidelined as this crisis continues to
escalate," he stressed, adding that the Council must uphold its Charter
responsibilities and bring an end to the cycle of violence and counter-violence.
Moreover, it must demand the utmost respect for international humanitarian law,
which was to provide innocent civilians with protection in situations of foreign
occupation, and condemn the killing of civilians and the violence.

Against that backdrop, he reiterated his call for the Security Council -- and
the international community -- to shoulder the legal and moral obligations to
provide Palestinian civilians with effective protection. He also urged an
immediate ceasefire in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and tangible action to
end the violence. The Council must help parties advance the new strategy called
for to immediately halt the violence, resolve the crisis and create an
environment conducive to advancing serious peace negotiations in good faith.
Continued silence would only bring more death and further destabilize the
situation to the detriment of all concerned.

DANIEL CARMON (Israel) said that, two days ago, the Secretary-General had
condemned Hamas' rocket fire against Israel and called on Hamas and other
terrorist and militant groups to cease all acts of violence and terrorism. He
had also called on Israel to exercise maximum constraint. Israel had complied
with that restraint for many months now, despite the constant firing of rockets
and mortar shells on its towns and villages in southern Israel. That was in
spite of Hamas' attempt to carry out terrorist attacks wherever they could
target and kill an Israeli. While Israel had shown restraint, Hamas had shown no
intention of ceasing its attacks. On the contrary, in the past week, since Hamas
had failed to organize a provocative demonstration in Gaza, it had dramatically
escalated its rocket attacks against Israelis. Grad missiles, Katyusha rockets,
mortar shells and Qassams were among the weapons used. Since Wednesday, more
than 150 rockets had been fired at Israel, dozens in the past 24 hours.

More than 250,000 Israeli citizens were in the range of deadly and murderous
weapons of Hamas, in the care of its backers in the region and their malicious
vision, he said. "The Government of Israel should not apologize for protecting
its citizens. In fact, where was the Security Council just three days ago, when
Hamas fired 80 rockets at Israel, in just a matter of hours? Where was the
outrage and condemnation?" he said. Israel had addressed the situation for a
very long time, he said, pointing to the many letters sent this week to the
Council, expressing alarm and concern with Hamas' attacks and reiterating
Israel's determination to protect its people.

"This is our right. This is the right of all States to act in self-defence, in
accordance with article 51 of the United Nations Charter," he said, stressing
that it was Israel's duty and obligation.

No responsible Member State would sit back in silence and do nothing as its
citizens and territory were under constant attack, he said. They would not be
idle as the alarms in Sderot and Ashkelon gave Israeli civilians less than 15
seconds before rockets slammed into their lives. Those lives had been destroyed
forever. The activity of Hamas could only be described as terrorism. Hamas was a
terrorist group backed by United Nations Member States who denied the very basic
principles set by the international community to cease terrorist acts, recognize
Israel and abide by previous agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.
Hamas not only sought to kill Israelis, it had no concern for its own civilians.
Hamas fired rockets from populated civilian areas, using its own civilians as
human shields. In his statement, the Observer of Palestine had spoken of war
crimes, but it was Hamas that was responsible for war crimes against both
Israelis and Palestinians.

Hamas' true vision was the extermination of the State of Israel, and not to live
peacefully side by side with Israel, he said. It did not even seek to restore
normalcy for the sake of the Gazans. Hamas' vision for failure was shared by
some States in the region, such as Iran, who was sitting behind the scenes,
orchestrating and supporting Hamas' terrorism against Israel. "One must wonder
about the timing of Hamas' escalation of violence, and whether the Council's
convening right now is to distract the international community's attention from
the other debates on the agenda," he said. "I reiterate Israel's determination
to protect its civilians and citizens. It is what they expect from us, and it is
what we must do for them. Sitting on the sidelines will only embolden the
extremists and convinces them that they should not stop the violence."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              March 3, 2008 Monday

United Nations: Secretary-General Describes 'Deeply Alarming Escalation Of
Violence' In Gaza, Southern Israel, Terrible Civilian Death Toll, As He Briefs
Security Council; Palestine Observer Pleads with Council to Uphold International
Law; Israel Reiterates Determination to Protect Citizens from Hamas' Terror
Attacks

LENGTH: 3488 words


RDATE:03032008

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told an emergency meeting of the
Security Council this evening that, since last Wednesday, there had been a
"deeply alarming escalation of violence in Gaza and southern Israel, and a
terrible civilian death toll", and the scenes from Gaza today had been
"particularly disturbing".

He said that, according to press reports, some 117 rockets, including 26 today,
had been fired from Gaza at southern Israel, killing one Israeli civilian in
Sederot and injuring five others in Ashkelon, including women and children.

Reports and Israeli Government sources had said that rockets fired at Ashkelon
were not home-made Qassams, but of advanced Katyusha-like design, allegedly
smuggled into Gaza when the border with Egypt had been breached.

The Israel Defense Forces had also launched air and land attacks on Gaza,
killing an estimated 90 Palestinians, among them many civilians, and injuring
hundreds. According to United Nations estimates, 59 Palestinians had been killed
today, including 39 civilians. He stressed that there were many conflicting
reports on the number of casualties, and those figures were not confirmed.

The Secretary-General placed blame on both sides, calling on them to cease the
violence and restore order. "I condemn Palestinian rocket attacks and call for
the immediate cessation of such acts of terrorism, which serve no purpose,
endanger Israeli civilians and bring misery to the Palestinian people," he said.
"While recognizing Israel's right to defend itself, I condemn the
disproportionate and excessive use of force that has killed and injured so many
civilians, including children. Israel must fully comply with international
humanitarian law and exercise the utmost constraint.

Incidents in which civilians have been killed or injured must be investigated
and accountability must be ensured."

The Secretary-General also expressed his deep concern that the violence could
escalate and impact the negotiation process.

"I call on all parties to step back from the brink of even deeper and more
deadly clashes," he said. He pledged the United Nations strong support and said
he had spoken to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, Israeli Foreign Minister
Tzipi Livni and League of Arab States Secretary-General Amre Moussa. The
international community, important stakeholders and Council members must do
their part by exercising their influence on the parties to stop the violence and
allow humanitarian relief to reach those in need, he said.

Riyad Mansour, the Permanent Observer of Palestine, stressing that the situation
in Gaza was dramatically deteriorating, pleaded with the Council to uphold
international law, its own resolutions and the United Nations Charter, as its
ongoing paralysis was "wholly unjustifiable". The Council's lack of action had
only perpetrated more war crimes against innocent civilians, as evidenced by the
past week's violent events.

The Palestinian death toll in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, particularly
the Gaza Strip, was rising rapidly as a result of the "brutal" military assaults
carried out by Israel against civilians, he said, noting that, today alone, at
least 60 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli military attacks in the
northern Gaza Strip. It had also been reported that more than 150 Palestinians
had been wounded by Israeli occupying forces in the latest round of attacks.

"The Council cannot continue to be sidelined as this crisis continues to
escalate," he stressed, adding that the Council must uphold its Charter
responsibilities and demand the utmost respect for international humanitarian
law, which was to provide innocent civilians with protection in situations of
foreign occupation, and condemn the killing of civilians and the violence. Gaza
was barely surviving under conditions of severe duress due to Israel's unlawful
closure of all border crossings, obstruction of humanitarian supplies and lethal
military campaign. Hospitals in Gaza were making all efforts to treat the
wounded, but Israeli occupying forces continued to target medical rescue teams.
Despite his delegation's warnings to the Council, no action had been taken to
stem the violence, he said, adding that, since the beginning of February, Israel
had killed more than 126 Palestinians.

The international community was "in clear concurrence" about what was needed to
advance the process towards a just, lasting and comprehensive peace, he said.
United Nations Special Coordinator and Personal Representative of the
Secretary-General, Robert Serry, and the Under-Secretary General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, John Holmes, had briefed
the Council on the critical situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

Immediate and real action was needed. He also highlighted a recent threat by
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister to inflict a "holocaust" among Palestinians in
Gaza, saying such threats must be viewed with "utmost seriousness" and be
vehemently condemned.

Israel's representative, Daniel Carmon, told the Council that Israel indeed had
the right, as well as the duty, to defend its people and land against Hamas'
"malicious vision". More than 250,000 Israeli citizens were in the range of
Hamas' deadly and murderous weapons. "The Government of Israel should not
apologize for protecting its citizens." Israel had addressed the situation for a
very long time, he said, pointing to the many letters sent this week to the
Council, expressing alarm and concern with Hamas' attacks and reiterating
Israel's determination to protect its people.

"This is our right. This is the right of all States to act in self-defence, in
accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter," he said.

He said that, two days ago, the Secretary-General had condemned Hamas' rocket
fire against Israel and called on Hamas and other terrorist and militant groups
to cease all acts of violence and terrorism. The Secretary-General had also
called on Israel to exercise maximum constraint. While Israel had complied with
that restraint for many months now, Hamas had shown no intention of ceasing its
attacks. On the contrary, in the past week, since Hamas had failed to organize a
provocative demonstration in Gaza, it had dramatically escalated rocket attacks
against Israelis, using grad missiles, Katyusha rockets, mortar shells and
Qassams. Since Wednesday, more than 150 rockets had been fired at Israel, dozens
in the past 24 hours.

Hamas' activity could only be described as terrorism, he said. Hamas was a
terrorist group backed by United Nations Member States who denied the very basic
principles set by the international community to cease terrorist acts, recognize
Israel and abide by previous agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.
Hamas not only sought to kill Israelis, it had no concern for its own civilians,
using them as human shields when firing rockets from populated areas. Hamas'
true vision was the extermination of the State of Israel and not to live
peacefully side by side with Israel, he said, adding that some States in the
region, such as Iran, shared that vision.

The meeting started at 8:30 p.m. and adjourned at 9:07 p.m.

Background

The Security Council met this evening on the situation in the Middle East,
including the Palestinian question, at the request of Libya (document
S/2008/142).

Statements

BAN KI-MOON, United Nations Secretary-General, said that, since last Wednesday,
there had been a "deeply alarming escalation of violence in Gaza and southern
Israel, and a terrible civilian death toll". The scenes in Gaza today had been
particularly disturbing. Some 117 rockets had been fired from Gaza at southern
Israel, including 26 rockets today.

They had been fired at several civilian centres and had extended as far north as
the Israeli city of Ashkelon.

According to press reports and Israeli Government sources, the rockets fired at
Ashkelon had not been not home-made Qassams.

Rather, they were rockets of advanced Katyusha-like design, allegedly smuggled
into Gaza when the border with Egypt was breached. One Israeli civilian had been
killed in Sederot and five civilians were reported injured in Ashkelon today,
including women and children.

During the same period, the Israel Defense Forces had launched attacks from the
air and by land on targets in the Gaza Strip, he said. An estimated 90
Palestinians had been killed, among them many civilians, and hundreds had been
injured. According to United Nations estimates, 59 Palestinians had been killed
today, including 39 civilians, among them three women and five minors, including
an infant. He stressed that there were many conflicting reports on the number of
casualties, and that those figures were not confirmed. There had also been heavy
property damage. Israeli land incursions were now occurring near Jabalaya and
the northern Gaza Strip. Two Israeli soldiers were reported to have been killed
in the fighting.

The Israel Defense Forces reported that it had destroyed a truck carrying 160
rockets.

United Nations sources reported at least four incidents of Israeli fire against
ambulances and medical personnel, he said. The Palestinian Ministry of Health
had issued a call for diesel, in order to operate its ambulances. All United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)
schools had been closed, and many families were trapped inside their houses by
the violence, unable to obtain medical aid or reach safety. He called on Israel
to facilitate full access to hospitals and medical centres for the injured. He
had made clear his concern at the outset of the escalation of violence and had
been diplomatically engaged to press for calm. He had spoken to Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and League of Arab
States Secretary-General Amre Moussa. United Nations agencies on the ground,
especially UNRWA, were continuing their efforts to assist people in grave
distress.

In light of those deeply disturbing developments, "I condemn Palestinian rocket
attacks and call for the immediate cessation of such acts of terrorism, which
serve no purpose, endanger Israeli civilians and bring misery to the Palestinian
people," he said. "I call for an end to these attacks. While recognizing
Israel's right to defend itself, I condemn the disproportionate and excessive
use of force that has killed and injured so many civilians, including children.
I call on Israel to cease such attacks," he said, stressing that " Israel must
fully comply with international humanitarian law and exercise the utmost
constraint. Incidents in which civilians have been killed or injured must be
investigated and accountability must be ensured."

The Secretary-General, expressing his deep concern at the possibility of the
violence escalating, said the United Nations had offered its strong support for
all efforts to end the violence and bring about a period of calm. "I call on all
parties to step back from the brink of even deeper and more deadly clashes," he
said. Further, he expressed his extreme concern over the impacts of such
developments on the negotiation process. He called on all members of the
international community, important stakeholders and Council members to exercise
their influence on the parties to stop the violence and to allow humanitarian
relief to reach those in need. All parties should rededicate their commitment to
the peace process, he said.

The Permanent Observer of Palestine, RIYAD H. MANSOUR, said he was here today to
plead with the Security Council to uphold international law, its own resolutions
and the United Nations Charter, as its ongoing paralysis was "wholly
unjustifiable".

The Council's lack of action had only led to the perpetration of more war crimes
against innocent civilians, as seen in the violent events of the past week. The
Palestinian death toll in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, particularly the
Gaza Strip, was rising rapidly as a result of the "brutal" military assaults
carried out by Israel against civilians. The situation was dramatically
deteriorating. Gaza was barely surviving under conditions of severe duress due
to Israel's unlawful closure of all border crossings, obstruction of
humanitarian supplies and lethal military campaign.

In flagrant breach of article 33 of the Geneva Convention, relative to the
protection of civilians in time of war, Israel continued to punish Palestinian
civilians in Gaza by closing the Territory, obstructing the movement of persons
and goods, and committing military reprisals, he said. Such actions were
prohibited by international law. The humanitarian calamity in Gaza continued to
deepen as a result of the violence, which threatened to derail the fragile peace
process.

Despite his delegation's warnings to the Council, no action had been taken to
stem the violence, he continued, saying that, from the start of February until
today, Israel had killed more than 126 Palestinians, including 19 children, some
only 2 days old. There was no justification for killing innocent civilians. When
the slaughter of children was justified under the pretext of promoting security,
the international community had sunk into a "dark abyss", he said. Surrounded by
death, Palestinian children weretraumatized by the ever present question: "Will
I be next?"

Today alone, at least 60 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli military
attacks in the northern Gaza Strip, he said, while it also had been reported
that more than 150 Palestinians had been wounded by Israeli occupying forces in
the latest round of attacks. Hospitals in Gaza were making all efforts to treat
the wounded. Israeli occupying forces continued to target medical rescue teams.
Also, many of the Palestinians killed and wounded had been casualties of
extrajudicial executions, which also were being carried out in the West Bank. In
the Balata refugee camp in Nablus, Israeli undercover units had killed three
Palestinian men. Such actions were meant to undermine efforts by Palestinian
security forces to establish calm.

The killings of Palestinian civilians had not begun with the killing of an
Israeli in Sderot by rocket fire from Gaza, he asserted, recalling that
reprisals against civilians were strictly prohibited under international law.
The world was witnessing the horrific materialization of repeated threats made
by several Israeli officials. In that context, he highlighted a recent threat by
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister to inflict a "holocaust" among Palestinians in
Gaza.

Such threats must be viewed with "utmost seriousness" and be vehemently
condemned.

Civilians under foreign occupation were entitled to protection, he continued,
adding that there could be no doubt that the acts of aggression committed by
Israel in recent days were flagrant violations of humanitarian law. Real and
immediate measures must be taken to avert the killing of even more innocent
people and the "uncontrollable spiral" of the situation to irreversible depths.

He said such actions could not serve the peace process. They served only to
fully ignite violence. That was an indisputable fact. The peace process was not
divorced from the situation on the ground, and the continuation of the vicious
cycle would only bring more suffering and loss for the Palestinian and Israeli
peoples. That must be a matter of concern for the Council.

The international community was "in clear concurrence" about what was needed to
advance the process towards a just, lasting and comprehensive peace, he said.
United Nations Special Coordinator and Personal Representative of the
Secretary-General, Robert Serry, and the Under-Secretary General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, John Holmes, had briefed
the Council on the critical situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

Immediate and real action was needed.

"The Council cannot continue to be sidelined as this crisis continues to
escalate," he stressed, adding that the Council must uphold its Charter
responsibilities and bring an end to the cycle of violence and counter-violence.
Moreover, it must demand the utmost respect for international humanitarian law,
which was to provide innocent civilians with protection in situations of foreign
occupation, and condemn the killing of civilians and the violence.

Against that backdrop, he reiterated his call for the Security Council -- and
the international community -- to shoulder the legal and moral obligations to
provide Palestinian civilians with effective protection. He also urged an
immediate ceasefire in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and tangible action to
end the violence. The Council must help parties advance the new strategy called
for to immediately halt the violence, resolve the crisis and create an
environment conducive to advancing serious peace negotiations in good faith.
Continued silence would only bring more death and further destabilize the
situation to the detriment of all concerned.

DANIEL CARMON (Israel) said that, two days ago, the Secretary-General had
condemned Hamas' rocket fire against Israel and called on Hamas and other
terrorist and militant groups to cease all acts of violence and terrorism. He
had also called on Israel to exercise maximum constraint. Israel had complied
with that restraint for many months now, despite the constant firing of rockets
and mortar shells on its towns and villages in southern Israel. That was in
spite of Hamas' attempt to carry out terrorist attacks wherever they could
target and kill an Israeli. While Israel had shown restraint, Hamas had shown no
intention of ceasing its attacks. On the contrary, in the past week, since Hamas
had failed to organize a provocative demonstration in Gaza, it had dramatically
escalated its rocket attacks against Israelis. Grad missiles, Katyusha rockets,
mortar shells and Qassams were among the weapons used. Since Wednesday, more
than 150 rockets had been fired at Israel, dozens in the past 24 hours.

More than 250,000 Israeli citizens were in the range of deadly and murderous
weapons of Hamas, in the care of its backers in the region and their malicious
vision, he said. "The Government of Israel should not apologize for protecting
its citizens. In fact, where was the Security Council just three days ago, when
Hamas fired 80 rockets at Israel, in just a matter of hours? Where was the
outrage and condemnation?" he said. Israel had addressed the situation for a
very long time, he said, pointing to the many letters sent this week to the
Council, expressing alarm and concern with Hamas' attacks and reiterating
Israel's determination to protect its people.

"This is our right. This is the right of all States to act in self-defence, in
accordance with article 51 of the United Nations Charter," he said, stressing
that it was Israel's duty and obligation.

No responsible Member State would sit back in silence and do nothing as its
citizens and territory were under constant attack, he said. They would not be
idle as the alarms in Sderot and Ashkelon gave Israeli civilians less than 15
seconds before rockets slammed into their lives. Those lives had been destroyed
forever. The activity of Hamas could only be described as terrorism. Hamas was a
terrorist group backed by United Nations Member States who denied the very basic
principles set by the international community to cease terrorist acts, recognize
Israel and abide by previous agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.
Hamas not only sought to kill Israelis, it had no concern for its own civilians.
Hamas fired rockets from populated civilian areas, using its own civilians as
human shields. In his statement, the Observer of Palestine had spoken of war
crimes, but it was Hamas that was responsible for war crimes against both
Israelis and Palestinians.

Hamas' true vision was the extermination of the State of Israel, and not to live
peacefully side by side with Israel, he said. It did not even seek to restore
normalcy for the sake of the Gazans. Hamas' vision for failure was shared by
some States in the region, such as Iran, who was sitting behind the scenes,
orchestrating and supporting Hamas' terrorism against Israel. "One must wonder
about the timing of Hamas' escalation of violence, and whether the Council's
convening right now is to distract the international community's attention from
the other debates on the agenda," he said. "I reiterate Israel's determination
to protect its civilians and citizens. It is what they expect from us, and it is
what we must do for them. Sitting on the sidelines will only embolden the
extremists and convinces them that they should not stop the violence."

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday

Israeli air force attacks "terrorist squad" after rockets hit Negev

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report by Israel Defence Forces Radio on 4 March

This morning the Israel Air Force attacked a terrorist squad that fired two
Qassam rockets at the western Negev. One of the Qassam rockets scored a direct
hit on a house in Sederot. The elderly couple living in this house left the town
for a few days in the wake of the escalation in the Gaza Strip. The house was
damaged. The second Qassam rocket landed in an open area in the western Negev.
The two rockets caused no casualties.

Source: IDF Radio, Tel Aviv, in Hebrew 0500 gmt 4 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday

Turkish army operation targeted terrorist attacks' "brain" area - general

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) - 03.03.2008 - Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, chief of Turkish General
Staff, said Monday that the target of ground operations was not Qandil mountain
but Zap region.

Briefing the media on the cross-border ground operation at General Staff's HQs
in Ankara, Gen. Buyukanit said Zap was the target of the ground operation as
this region was where the terrorist organization planned and conducted its
attacks.

"This area is the brain of the armed terrorist attacks. Qandil mountain on the
other hand is where they have the training and the logistics. Therefore, we have
planned a ground operation targeting Zap region and we have executed it," said
Buyukanit.

Buyukanit recalled that Turkish Armed Forces had given the greatest losses in
the past because of explosives. He pointed out that they specifically chose
winter for the timing of the operation as they knew explosives, "PKK's usual
method of attacks", could not be detonated in this season.

"We did not even loose one soldier because of explosives this time," said
Buyukanit.

Buyukanit stressed that from Generals to privates, all the participating units,
were on foot, as the terrain and weather conditions did not allow vehicles.

"Carrying out an operation in such weather conditions, on such a terrain where
the snow is very thick, requires great physical strength and stamina. This
operation is a proof of the level of sophistication and physical strength our
troops have reached," said Buyukanit.

Gen. Buyukanit underlined that "the job" was not complete yet with the ground
operation staged against terrorist PKK. "We will stage further operations as we
see necessary," Gen. Buyukanit stressed.

"240 terrorists have been rendered ineffective during the ground operation. We
are sure that the terrorists lost more than 240 lives. The damage perpetrated on
terrorist PKK organization by the Turkish Air Force have not been included in
our assessments," Gen. Buyukanit also said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1740 gmt 3 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday

American missile attack targets al-Qa'eda terrorist in Somalia

BYLINE: Mike Pflanz East Africa Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 279 words


AMERICA launched a missile attack on southern Somalia yesterday against a
suspected terrorist with links to al-Qa'eda.

At least one Tomahawk missile fired from a submarine hit the town of Dobley,
five miles from Somalia's border with Kenya, destroying a house and injuring at
least six people.

A Pentagon official said it was a "deliberate and precise strike'' aimed at a
specific target - believed to have been Hassan Turki, the head of the hardline
Shebab youth organisation - at a meeting of militant Islamists.

"This attack was against a known al-Qa'eda terrorist,'' said Bryan Whitman, a
Pentagon spokesman.

"As we have repeatedly said, we will continue to pursue terrorist activities and
their operations wherever we may find them.''

It was unclear last night if the attack had achieved its objective. It was the
fourth air strike by US forces in Somalia in 14 months, all targeted at
hardliners who Washington believed were linked to al-Qa'eda. None of the earlier
attacks succeeded in killing the targets, the US has admitted.

Yesterday's attack illustrates Washington's concern that Somalia is a breeding
ground for terrorists bent on attacking western interests in the Horn of Africa.

"We have not seen this kind of action from the Americans for some time,'' said a
western diplomat in Nairobi. "But the fact that they've sent the big guns in
once again is a clear message that they've not forgotten about Somalia.''

Dobley recently fell to militant Islamists who formed part of the Islamic Courts
Union that ruled Somalia for six months in 2006.

Somalia has been unstable since Ethiopia invaded in December 2006, with
Washington's backing, to oust the Islamic Courts Union.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                       March 4, 2008 Tuesday 2:38 PM BST

BRAVERY AWARD FOR TERROR ATTACK HERO

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 224 words


A man who stood up to a suicide bomber in London on July 21 has received the
Queen's Gallantry Medal.

Angus Campbell, 44, confronted bomber Ramzi Mohammed on a Northern Line Tube
train when his explosive-packed rucksack failed to detonate.

He ushered a woman and her baby from the train and shouted at the bomber,
despite fearing the device might be radioactive.

Mr Campbell praised the everyday heroes of the fire service, saying: ``It's
absolutely overwhelming to be here. The Queen asked me about the incident and
what happened on that day. I just told her my actions.

``What I did that day is what firefighters do every day - confront danger and
assess the risk.''

The heroic efforts of two explosives experts were also recognised at the
ceremony.

Paul Humphrey, 44, received the Queen's Gallantry Medal and Gary Wright, 39, the
Queen's Commendation for Bravery.

The pair made safe bombs planted inside two cars in London's West End on June 29
last year.

Mr Humphrey worked to defuse by hand a device made of gas cylinders, petrol and
loose metal outside a London nightclub. Rather than detonating the device
remotely, which he considered too dangerous, he worked inside the car to defuse
it by hand.

Both men declined to speak to the media, but Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Sir Ian Blair described the pair as ``brave, almost beyond belief''. end

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 5, 2008, Wednesday

IT MUST HAVE BEEN SCARY, SMEATO;
QUEEN QUIZZES AIRPORT HERO ON TERROR ATTACK AS HE GETS AWARD

BYLINE: By Jack Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281 words


HERO John Smeaton collected his bravery medal from the Queen yesterday and said
it was "the proudest moment of my life".

Dressed in a kilt and bow tie, baggage handler John received the Queen's
Gallantry Medal for taking on the terrorists who attacked Glasgow Airport last
summer.

Afterwards, an emotional John, flanked by his parents and sister, told how the
Queen congratulated him.

He said: "We just had a wee chat. She said 'well done and congratulations'.

"It's the proudest moment of my life.

"The Queen was very nice.

She asked me if it was scary that day and I said it was.

"She said it was an awful thing and I agreed.

"It's magnificent being here.

What more can you say about Buck Palace?

"It's a magnificent experience, receiving this medal.

"As long as I make my family proud, I'm happy."

And once again, John played down his hero status.

He said: "Hero's not a word I like. Heroes are the guys out there fighting for
their country in Iraq and Afghanistan."

John's mum Cathy, 68, and his sister, Lesley, hugged and kissed him as he
emerged from the investiture.

His dad, Iain, 66, said he was "extremely proud".

He added: "I've been proud of him since that day. Today is just the icing on the
cake.

"We are proud of the way he has stayed the same chap.

"His feet are well and truly on the ground."

Other people who were being honoured yesterday also gathered round John to
congratulate him.

Another recipient of the medal was Angus Campbell, 44, who stood up to a suicide
bomber on July 21, 2005.

Off-duty fireman Angus confronted Ramzi Mohammed on the London Underground when
his explosive-packed rucksack failed to detonate.

He said: "It's absolutely overwhelming to be here."

RECORD VIEW: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SO PROUD: John outside Buckingham Palace with his sister Lesley, mum
Cathy and dad Iain yesterday PA PHOTO
BRAVE: Angus Campbell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

THE BATTLE OF BEAR CREEK;
New threat in America's backyard;
An attack by eco-terrorists on one of Seattle's most exclusive enclaves has
exposed the dark side of environmental activism. By Leonard Doyle reports

BYLINE: Leonard Doyle

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1514 words


When developers were looking for a new "Street of Dreams" to market to Seattle's
upscale homebuyers, they alighted on Woodinville, a peaceful wooded community in
Snohomish County, about 25 miles north of the city.

Known for its stables and boutique wineries, it seemed a perfect location to
build the next generation of million-dollar show homes. And, in a twist to
attract the eye of upscale Prius-driving buyers from Seattle, the houses would
be built to the latest environmental standards.

They would be marketed as low carbon footprint or "built green" in
developer-speak. It was a win-win formula and so confident were the developers
in their eco-marketing skills that they overrode the opposition of residents,
certain that environmentally aware liberals wishing to flee Seattle, would
scramble to buy the houses.

Today those dreams are in ruins, along with five of the luxury buildings, put to
the torch in the early hours of Monday, apparently by members of the Earth
Liberation Front. The FBI has been called in and the attack is being
investigated as "a domestic-terrorism act" because "there's a claim of ELF
responsibility", according to Fred Gutt, a special agent with the FBI's Joint
Terrorism Task Force in Seattle. "Built green?" read the spray-painted letters
on a sheet left hanging on a builder's fence at the site, "Nope Black!" The
sheet was also signed with the letters ELF.

No one was injured because none of the houses was occupied. Neighbours said they
were woken by what they thought was gunfire or explosions and fire-fighters
fearing booby-traps let the buildings burn.

Far from complementing the wooded wetlands, many believed any houses built there
would threaten the delicate ecosystem and, with it, the endangered Chinook
salmon. Opponents of the development argued forcibly but in vain that the
development would pollute nearby Bear Creek as well as the wetlands that feed
it. But it did not take a radical environmentalist to appreciate the potential
harm posed by the development. After a near-miraculous journey across the
Pacific Ocean and up Bear Creek, the Chinook salmon spawns in the icy
headwaters.

There, the tiny alevins, with a transparent body and enormous eyes, develop.
Millions are born in the streams that feed Bear Creek, surviving off their yolk
sacs before turning into a fry, a real fish with small fins and scales capable
of making its way back to the Pacific Ocean.

However cleverly designed with the latest energy-saving materials, the very
construction of new houses in the wetlands and new hardtop roads to service them
created a source of oil-polluted runoff water that environmentalists say will
potentially kill millions of tiny fish. For the ELF, it seems to have boiled
down to a choice between the salmon and the expensive houses that no locals
wanted anyway.

The ELF, a collection of loosely organised environmentalists and animal rights
advocates with a history of direct action across the United States, has been
hard for the authorities to crack although members have taken responsibility for
attacks on property across the US over the past few years.

The FBI's Mr Gutt alluded to the agency's frustration when he told The New York
Times: "There's no membership rolls. There's no clubhouse. It's more of an
ideology. They're organised only to the extent of maybe cells that get together
and decide to act on their belief."

The developers and estate agents were equally mystified. They had promoted the
houses as "best practice", and their literature emphasised landscaping that
requires minimal water, footpaths that minimise runoff into drains and the use
of recycled timber.

Looking at the charred remains of the "dream homes", the developer, Grey
Lundberg, shook his head and said: "It's just so ironic. I can't even begin to
fathom that mentality; we were trying to demonstrate a better way to build out
here."

The houses are part of a "rural cluster development" which architects and
planners claim prevents sprawl by limiting development density in rural areas.
Known as Quinn's Crossing at Yarrowbay Communities, the development has less
than a dozen houses on a small cul-de-sac in an area which, up till now, has
been only had self-built houses and mobile homes.

Tours of luxury houses are common in the US, but Seattle claims to have "the
most popular and highest-attended single- site luxury home and garden tour in
the US". To drum up business, thousands of people from across Washington State
would pay to tour the new houses. It's a tried and trusted formula, used by
developers in the posher parts of cities and suburbs in North America.

The new houses were showcased at Seattle's 2007 "Street of Dreams" in which
developers first build the top-of-the-line houses and have them decorated by
local designers and lushly landscaped by local firms. To get a "greenbuilt"
designation, the houses had to be priced less than $2m (£1m) and have an
undetermined amount of "environmentally friendly elements".

At the smouldering ruins on Monday, sightseer Lois Keer said she wanted to see
"the shameful thing that happened". But her husband, Loren, was more worried
about the speed at which developers' bulldozers were carving out new
sub-divisions for executives' houses. "I don't feel sorry for the developer," he
said, and cited over-development and the slapdash methods of the builders.

Eric Olsen, 21, who grew up in Woodinville and lives a few streets from the
fire, told reporters that many neighbours remained angry that the development
had destroyed beaver dams as well as backwoods trails. The new roads in the area
were pushing oil-polluted runoff into the very streams where the Chinook spawn,
he said.

Told that the ELF had claimed responsibility for the fires he said "Stick it to
the man!", quickly adding: "I'm not supportive of those tactics but there's been
far too much development. Nobody wanted it." For many years, the Pacific
North-west has been a breeding ground for environmental activism and the sort of
direct action favoured by the ELF.

Its members, who tend to be young, politically aware and well educated, have
been firebombing car dealerships, ski resorts and developments for years, almost
never endangering human life. Its members have attacked government buildings,
farms, a McDonald's outlet by the Space Needle, car dealerships and the
University of Washington's research facilities. Between 1990 and 2004, the ELF
and its sister organisation the Animal Liberation Front, were responsible for
more than 1,200 incidents costing tens of millions of dollars, US officials say.

The ELF has set fires and caused explosions to protest against what its members
say is corporate and government complicity in ruining America's environment. A
1998 arson fire at a Vail, Colorado, ski resort did damage reckoned at $12m, and
in 1999, power lines in Oregon were sabotaged; attacks have also been launched
in Utah, Virginia, California and Wyoming. By 2005, FBI officials were telling
Congress that these domestic terror attacks were growing in "frequency and size"
and there were at least 150 investigations. "It's underground," said Katie
Fedor, a spokeswoman for the ELF, after it set fire to two Department of
Agriculture buildings a decade ago. It does illegal, direct action. It operates
in cells."

When caught, the ELF members are invariably treated as domestic terrorists. Many
have been sentenced to decades behind bars in some of the harshest prison
conditions in the US. Jeffrey Luers, who helped firebomb 4x4 vehicles on a car
dealer's forecourt, got 22 years. His sentence was reduced to 10 years last
month after an international campaign for a more appropriate sentence for a
crime in which no one was hurt.

The US, which has never taken kindly to malicious attacks on property, began
treating members of the ELF as dangerous terrorists after the September 11
attacks. In a courthouse this week in Seattle, a federal jury began deliberating
on an arson attack in 2001 at the University of Washington. Before the court is
Briana Waters, a 32-year-old violin teacher accused of serving as a lookout
while her friends planted a firebomb at the Centre for Urban Horticulture at the
University of Washington. ELF members believed, mistakenly it now seems, that
researchers were genetically altering larch trees. Ms Waters, who testified that
she had nothing to do with the arson, could face as long as 35 years in prison
if convicted. Though no one was hurt in the blaze, the department building was
ruined and it will cost $7m to rebuild.

The houses at Quinn's Crossing will be rebuilt in time, but there may be more
serious consequences for Ms Waters as her trial proceeds, given the country's
high state of anxiety about anything that smacks of terrorism. Her lawyer asked
the judge to declare a mistrial on Monday after news of the alleged ELF attack
broke, saying that the publicity surrounding the fires was bound to influence
the jury.

"It is inconceivable that anybody who is supporting Briana's case could have
been responsible for this," he said. Not surprisingly, the judge rejected his
plea.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            March 5, 2008, Wednesday
                                 First Edition

uk: Terror attack hero's proudest moment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 118 words


JOHN SMEATON told yesterday of the proudest moment of his life as he collected
an award from the Queen.

Dressed in a tartan kilt and bow tie, Mr Smeaton said Her Majesty congratulated
him for his heroics as terrorists attacked Glasgow airport last summer.

He said, "We just had a wee chat. She said, 'well done and congratulations'.
It's the proudest moment of my life."

After receiving the Queen's Gallantry Medal, Mr Smeaton, flanked by his parents
Iain, 66, and Cathy, 68, and sister Lesley, said it was "a magnificent
experience" coming to "Buck Palace".

When asked if he was a hero, Mr Smeaton said, "Hero's not a word I like. Heroes
are the guys out there fighting for their country in Iraq and Afghanistan."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan rights body asks government to protect people's lives in terror attacks

LENGTH: 281 words


Text of report by staff reporter headlined "Get rid of terror instead of
announcing alerts" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 6
March

Lahore: The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) has called upon the
government to demonstrate some capacity to protect people's lives in terrorist
attacks instead of merely announcing an alert or red alert after each explosion.

A statement issued by the HRCP on Wednesday [5 March] stated that the terrorist
attack inside the Navy War College was lent special significance because the
site was close to the Governor's House and the Provincial Assembly chambers, and
because the students at the college included officers from friendly nations. "As
usual, the authorities announced a red alert across the country. Such gestures
are becoming increasingly meaningless as the terrorists are evidently enjoying
freedom of the land," it stated.

It stated that the people had a right to know what had been done to trace
terrorist-training camps, the routes used for the supply of explosives, and the
sources of funds used in terrorist operations.

On the eve of the general election, the official spokespersons, who apparently
could not agree among themselves, announced violence-free polling as, according
to them, the terrorists had all been rounded up, it added.

It questioned if the respite was limited to the election day, and what the
authorities' version of the cause of the latest spurt in murderous attacks was.
"Are the militants trying to extend the life of the regime voted out on 18
February, or do they want to damn the new government before it takes charge?" it
added.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 06 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

Israeli TV reports casualties in terrorist attack at Jerusalem school

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of report by state funded, editorially independent Israel TV on 6 March

[Report by military affairs correspondent Amir Bar-Shalom and announcer Merav
Miller]

[Bar-Shalom] Two terrorists were killed in the Merkaz Harav Yeshiva in
Jerusalem. A bomb belt was apparently found on the body of one of the
terrorists. The incident took place in two locations. There are many casualties.
The precise number is not known, but all the emergency services, including
Magen-David-Adom emergency medical services, announced a mass terrorist incident
in Jerusalem. There are reports about fatalities, but we can't speak about
numbers, because these are merely preliminary reports. There is also a suspicion
that a third terrorist escaped from the site, consequently the entire area was
closed off and searches are being carried out.

[Miller] At this stage we know that two terrorists who stormed Merkaz Harav
Yeshiva in Qiryat Moshe neighbourhood in Jerusalem were killed. We also know
that many persons were wounded, but their condition is not known. This incident
occurred a few minutes ago.

[Later on the newsreel, police affairs correspondent Uri Kohen-Aharonov reports
that several persons were killed in the attack.]

Source: Israel TV Channel 1, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1900 gmt 6 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 6, 2008, Thursday

WIDOW IS ROBBED BY SAME THUG 10YRS ON;
EXCLUSIVE ANNIE'S TERROR AS COPS LINK OTHER ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Karen Bale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 278 words


A TERRIFIED 88-year-old widow has been robbed by the same thug twice in 10
years.

The thief preyed on Annie Young at her flat a decade ago - then last week the
returned to beat her up before running off with just pounds 20.

Police believe the man, reported to be aged between 28 and 30, is responsible
for a string of attacks on OAPs and is highly dangerous.

He returned to Annie's first-floor tenement in Glasgow's east end last week -
days after she had returned from a four-mouth stay in hospital.

Annie said last night: "I was terrified. He punched me twice in the face and I
fell to the ground.

"He then got hold of me under the arms and dragged me round the flat repeating,
'Where's the money?' He had buzzed up to my flat. I don't know whether he was
looking for me or if he knew that I live here."

Annie, whose face was left swollen and bruised, said: "I was broken in to a few
years ago as well.

"I've lived here for 45 years. It's my home but I don't feel safe now."

Police believe the man who robbed Annie also broke into her flat in Alexandra
Parade in 1998.

She identified her most recent attacker from a photo of the man suspected of
carrying out the original robbery. And police believe the same man broke into a
79-year-old woman's home in Kirkintilloch, near Glasgow, and broke her shoulder.

Detective Constable Andy McPherson, of London Road CID, said: "This man is
dangerous."

"He appears to be linked to several incidents in the area. There have been four
elderly people attacked in their homes in the last two months and several more
in the past six months.

DNA swabs have been sent to forensic labs for analysis and police are confident
they will snare the thug.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BATTERED: Annie Young

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evesham Journal

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack on young Polish man

BYLINE: Steve Mather

SECTION: LATEST

LENGTH: 432 words


A YOUNG Polish worker this week spoke of his terror as a huge concrete block was
hurled through the window of his caravan.

However, although the incident occurred in the early hours of the morning, he
escaped serious injury because he was up and about at the time.

The incident occurred in the early hours of Saturday when Peter Kupis, aged 20,
was cleaning the caravan he lives in at the RA Meredith and Son Nurseries in
Broom, Bidford.

The offender is believed to have walked across a number of beds of plants, up to
the window of the caravan, housing two Polish workers, and thrown the block
through from close range.

Glass from the broken window showered down onto Peter but fortunately he escaped
relatively unscathed with his only injury being a cut to the hand. He did admit
to being shaken by the attack.

Peter, a mechanic from Poland is in Broom for six months to work at the
nurseries. In broken English, he explained: "I was cleaning at the time and
suddenly the window smashed and the glass fell on me.

"I didn't see anyone outside as it was dark. I do feel safe in this country and
like it but I don't feel that people are friendly towards us. It is hard to make
English friends."

Area manager of R A Meredith, Andrew Gretton, said he feared the attack was
racially motivated and that Peter's injuries could have been a lot worse. He
also criticised the police for their handling of the crime.

He said: "This was a criminal act of sheer stupidity. I think it deliberately
targeted foreign students, as a lot of local people would know they were here
and might think that these people are taking their jobs away."

He added: "The police were not interested and it was a hell of a job to get them
out here. It seemed that they couldn't solve it and they didn't care. No notes
or statements were taken and I don't hold out much hope of them catching the
person who did this.

"We even found a Nike sandal which was left on the scene, which could have been
used to track down the person but they weren't interested in that."

Police spokeswoman Di Holder, said: "At this stage we are not treating this as a
racist incident. "We have to prioritise all calls and as Mr Gretton did not
phone until 8.37am when the incident took place much earlier, we had to deal
with other calls coming in at that time.

"We also prioritise on the seriousness of calls so that is why it may have taken
longer to get there than the proprietor was happy with."

Anyone with information is asked to call Alcester Police Station on 01789
762207. Mr Gretton has offered a £200 reward for any information leading to an
arrest.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              This Is Local London

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

WALTHAM FOREST: Man cleared of terrorism charges condemns 7/7 attacks

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 424 words


A man cleared of terrorist charges has spoken of his "disgust" at the 7/7 London
bombings.

Talking to the Guardian after the verdict was announced, Mousa Brown, 41, of
Kitchener Road, Walthamstow said his family life had been "destroyed" by 18
months in Belmarsh maximum security prison.

Mr Brown had been accused of providing and receiving weapons training and his
trial at Woolwich Crown Court lasted more than four months.

While he was behind bars and under suspicion his mother died, his wife was
accused of being a suicide bomber and his 12-year-old son was bullied at school.

He said he had to fight to attend his mother's funeral and was only allowed to
do so handcuffed to four prison guards.

His friend of 20 years, 50-year-old Mohammed Hamid who called himself "Osama bin
London", was convicted of organising terrorist training camps, including one
attended by the failed 21/7 bombers.

A former scout, Mr Brown said there was "nothing new" in the camping and
paintballing trips he and his friends took in the English countryside, sometimes
with their wives and children, but he had not seen Hamid for six months before
his arrest.

Talking of the 7/7 bombings, he said: "I was disgusted by it. On July 6 my
eight-year-old daughter was travelling on the Tube. If this thing had happened
24 hours before, she would've been killed.

"If someone had said to me the attacks were a good thing, I would have strangled
that guy."

He claims British intelligence officers took him into a room after he had been
charged and his solicitor had left, and said they could help him if he informed
on friends.

"They kept talking about how much I earned and asked how I was going to pay my
mortgage in prison," he said.

Mr Brown, a self-employed builder, met Hamid when he joined the Waltham Forest
District League Sunday football team, which Hamid coached.

"I wasn't Muslim at the time and he was Muslim with a small "m". We used to go
raving to acid raves. It was an ordinary life for a Londoner. He was a fun guy,"
he said.

Recalling his arrest, in the middle of the night, Mr Brown said he thought he
was dreaming.

He said he felt the same in court when the prosecution played footage of the
friends paintballing, as apparent proof they were part of an Al Qaeda cell.

"I was expecting to see Jeremy Beadle jump out somewhere," he said. "It was such
a joke."

He also described life in prison as "dehumanising".

"We're treated worse than pond life. When you're accused of being a terrorist
you're on a par with paedophiles. The murderers get a much better deal," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

Mum's terror at mystery attack on car

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 259 words


A Mum whose windscreen was smashed by a stone says her family were lucky not to
have been seriously hurt.

Caroline Parry's car was hit twice by large stones as she drove her son, her mum
and a friend along the A4067 between Ystradgynlais and Ystalyfera.

One large rock hit the roof of her car and when the former teacher drove back to
see if she could find out where it had come from, a second missile was thrown at
the car, smashing the windscreen.

"It was a frightening experience. My heart was beating and I was very anxious.

"Your first reaction when something like that happens is to swerve - I dread to
think what could have happened if there had been other vehicles around."

The incident happened at around 10pm last Thursday February 28 as Mrs Parry
drove home from Miners' Welfare Hall in Ystradgynlais.

"There was an almighty bang when the stone hit the roof," said the 49-year-old
from Bryn Catwg in Cadoxton.

"I went to the next roundabout and turned around to find out where it had come
from.

"Then the second one smashed into the window. Luckily, the glass didn't come
into the car. I didn't see anybody but it is a mindless thing to do. The
consequences could have been awful."

Mrs Parry said that since the incident several friends had revealed their cars
had also been hit by stones in the same area.

Last week the Post reported how DVLA worker Elein Thomas had had half a brick
thrown at her car as on the same road.

A police spokesman appealed for witnesses to come forward.

Call police on 01792 456999 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

WALTHAM FOREST: Man cleared of terrorism charges condemns 7/7 attacks

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


A man cleared of terrorist charges has spoken of his "disgust" at the 7/7 London
bombings.

Talking to the Guardian after the verdict was announced, Mousa Brown, 41, of
Kitchener Road, Walthamstow said his family life had been "destroyed" by 18
months in Belmarsh maximum security prison.

Mr Brown had been accused of providing and receiving weapons training and his
trial at Woolwich Crown Court lasted more than four months.

While he was behind bars and under suspicion his mother died, his wife was
accused of being a suicide bomber and his 12-year-old son was bullied at school.

He said he had to fight to attend his mother's funeral and was only allowed to
do so handcuffed to four prison guards.

His friend of 20 years, 50-year-old Mohammed Hamid who called himself "Osama bin
London", was convicted of organising terrorist training camps, including one
attended by the failed 21/7 bombers.

A former scout, Mr Brown said there was "nothing new" in the camping and
paintballing trips he and his friends took in the English countryside, sometimes
with their wives and children, but he had not seen Hamid for six months before
his arrest.

Talking of the 7/7 bombings, he said: "I was disgusted by it. On July 6 my
eight-year-old daughter was travelling on the Tube. If this thing had happened
24 hours before, she would've been killed.

"If someone had said to me the attacks were a good thing, I would have strangled
that guy."

He claims British intelligence officers took him into a room after he had been
charged and his solicitor had left, and said they could help him if he informed
on friends.

"They kept talking about how much I earned and asked how I was going to pay my
mortgage in prison," he said.

Mr Brown, a self-employed builder, met Hamid when he joined the Waltham Forest
District League Sunday football team, which Hamid coached.

"I wasn't Muslim at the time and he was Muslim with a small "m". We used to go
raving to acid raves. It was an ordinary life for a Londoner. He was a fun guy,"
he said.

Recalling his arrest, in the middle of the night, Mr Brown said he thought he
was dreaming.

He said he felt the same in court when the prosecution played footage of the
friends paintballing, as apparent proof they were part of an Al Qaeda cell.

"I was expecting to see Jeremy Beadle jump out somewhere," he said. "It was such
a joke."

He also described life in prison as "dehumanising".

"We're treated worse than pond life. When you're accused of being a terrorist
you're on a par with paedophiles. The murderers get a much better deal," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mousa Brown is trying to rebuild his life

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Russia condemns terror attacks in Israel, Iraq

LENGTH: 243 words


Russia denounces the terrorist attack carried out in Jerusalem on 6 March, the
Russian Foreign Ministry's official representative Mikhail Kamynin said on 7
March, as reported by Interfax news agency on the same day.

"We roundly and unequivocally condemn this terrorist attack. We neither see nor
accept any justifications for it," Kamynin said.

The Russian Foreign Ministry conveys its sincere condolences to the relatives of
those who died and the victims, and calls on the parties in the Middle East
conflict to do their best "not to allow extremists and terrorists to disrupt the
already far from easy ongoing negotiating process", he added.

"We confirm that Israel, just like any state, has the right to protect the life,
security and wellbeing of its citizens. At the same time, it is obvious that
civilians should not suffer in the fight against terrorism," Kamynin said.

Moscow also condemns the terrorist attacks in Baghdad on 6 March, Interfax
reported Kamynin as saying on 7 March.

"We strongly condemn this bloody crime. We express our heartfelt condolences to
the families of those killed and injured. There is no doubt that behind
yesterday's events in Baghdad there are forces to whom the real interests of the
Iraqis are alien. Russia does not accept any forms or methods of terror, however
the inspirers and organizers of these atrocities try to justify it," Kamynin
said.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0823 gmt, 0843 gmt 7 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Israel

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 7 March: Turkey strongly condemned terrorist attack in Israel on
Thursday [6 March] evening that killed eight students and injured many other in
a Jewish seminary in Jerusalem.

Releasing a statement, Turkish MFA [Ministry of Foreign Affairs] said terrorism
has no religion, nationality or geography, indicating that it was a crime
against humanity.

The statement said real target of the recent terrorist attack, which claimed
lives of innocent people, was in fact the endeavours to maintain peace and noted
that the "best response against such kind of provocations is to record progress
on Annapolis process".

"Turkey sincerely wishes such heinous attacks to further strengthen firmness and
will of the parties to restore peace. Turkey will continue its active
contributions to the efforts to find a fair and permanent solution on the basis
of two states that would live side-by-side," the MFA statement indicated.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1350 gmt 7 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Norwegian Government: Norway condemns terrorist attack in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 201 words


RDATE:07032008

"I strongly condemn yesterday's terrorist attack on the Israeli students in
Jerusalem. I would like to extend my deepest sympathy to their families,"
commented Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store.

Eight students were killed and 11 injured when a Palestinian gunman opened fire
in the library of the Jewish seminary Mercaz Harav in West Jerusalem on 6 March.
This is the most serious terrorist attack in Jerusalem for four years.

"I am deeply concerned about recent developments, and hope that this incident
will not have a negative impact on the further negotiations between Israel and
the Palestinians.

"The increasing violence in recent weeks in Gaza and southern Israel is very
worrying. The use of violence seriously undermines efforts to ensure lasting
peace between Israel and the Palestinians," Mr Store underlined.

CONTACT: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norwegian Government Tel: +47 22 24 36 00
Fax: +47 22 24 95 80/81

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              March 7, 2008 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

GUNMEN BURST IN AND KILL 8 AT RABBI SCHOOL;
35 WOUNDED IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY ALLISON MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 426 words


EIGHT people were killed last night when two Palestinian gunmen walked into a
Jewish religious school in Jerusalem and opened fire "in all directions".

Up to 35 were wounded as the men sprayed automatic fire around the library,
crowded with about 80 high school age youngsters.

The gunmen were killed in a shootout after hundreds of police, including special
forces officers, surrounded the five-storey building.

One student claimed he grabbed a rifle and shot one of them dead.

Yitzhak Dadon said he waited on the roof of a nearby building and "he came out
of the library spraying automatic fire ... the terrorist came to the entrance
and I shot him twice in the head".

Police spokesman Shmuel Ben Ruby said: "One or two terrorists infiltrated the
Mercaz Harav seminary and opened fire in all directions."

Israeli TV said there may have been a third attacker who escaped.

Students were evacuated and 50 ambulances sped to the scene as the shootout
continued.

Medic Yaron Tzuker said: "They were still shooting when we got here. We took
cover and the ambulance was hit. It's horrible inside, bodies and wounded - it's
horrific."

Police held back worried parents seeking children at a study session marking the
start of Adar, the most festive month of the Jewish calendar.

A woman who lives across the street told a radio station: "There was a lot of
gunfire and hysteria."

Another witness said: "I saw police and ordinary civilians, who were armed,
trading gunfire with the men. The battle went on for about 10 minutes."

An hour later medics began removing the bodies of the dead in ambulances.

A crowd outside shouted: "Death to the Arabs." The school is in an area known as
centre of Jewish studies and linked to the leadership of the settlement movement
in the Palestinian West Bank.

In the Gaza Strip gunmen fired in the air to celebrate the attack, three days
after Israel ended a military offensive that killed more than 120 Palestinians,
half of them civilians.

A loudspeaker in a Gaza City mosque blared: "This is God's vengeance."

Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas official, said the group "blesses the heroic operation
which was a natural reaction to the Zionist massacre".

The attack came a day after US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice persuaded
moderate Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to return to peace talks with
Israel. Earlier a bomb killed an Israeli soldier and Sderot was hit by rockets
fired from Gaza.

WORST SINCE 2006

The shooting is the worst attack in Jerusalem since 2006. Between 2001 and 2004
there were repeated suicide bomb attacks.

news@irishmiror.ie

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE Medics evacuate victim from horror in Jerusalem Picture:
AP/KEVIN FRAYER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Credible plot under attack in terror tale

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 486 words


Sometimes, the truth is hidden in plain sight - you just need to know where to
look.

Vantage Point is an intricate action-thriller, which replays a devastating
terrorist attack from eight perspectives, exposing a web of intrigue, which
leaves the American president fighting for his life during a high profile visit
to Salamanca in Spain.

Screenwriter Barry L Levy draws inspiration from Rashomon, replaying events from
these radically different viewpoints to reveal the truth, one fragment at a
time.

He doesn't play fair, though.

Coincidence and chance nudge the film increasingly towards implausibility like
the American tourist who gets the urge to shadow a police chase with his camera
in order to feed us at least one red herring.

There's little chance of figuring out the truth behind the subterfuge because
key evidence, which should by rights be supplied by characters in earlier
segments, is withheld until the final iteration.

Manchester-born director Pete Travis fills the screen with enough pyrotechnics
and noise to keep our eyes and ears engaged even if our brains are not -
including a well-orchestrated car chase that sees one character follow Jason
Bourne's example and emerge from twisted metal and shattered glass almost
unscathed.

However, he's far less successful with the quieter, emotional moments - what few
there are - hamstrung by a noticeable lack of depth to the characters as they
fight for survival.

President Ashton (William Hurt) travels to Spain to make a keynote address to
set out his vision for a new world order, determined to eradicate the threat of
terrorism. As he approaches the lectern, two shots ring out and Secret Service
agents Thomas Barnes (Dennis Quaid) and Kent Taylor (Matthew Fox) rush to the
president's aid, tackling Enrique (Eduardo Noriego), a member of the mayor's
security team as he rushes the stage.

In the ensuing pandemonium, Thomas notices American tourist Howard Lewis (Forest
Whitaker) digitally recording the incident and they hastily review the footage,
discovering too late that the terrorists have left another surprise for the
Secret Service.

Meanwhile, veteran television news producer Rex Brooks (Sigourney Weaver)
watches in horror as her reporter Angie Jones (Zoe Saldana) is caught up in the
chaos.

Elsewhere in the city, Javier (Edgar Ramirez) exchanges harsh words with
Veronica (Ayelete Zurer), whose boyfriend is spying on the pair of them, and
U.S. government adviser Phil McCullough (Bruce McGill) proposes a devastating
counter-strike against the likely culprits.

Enjoyed on its own flimsy terms, Vantage Point is a big, muscular popcorn movie
with some decent action sequences and teasing cliffhangers.

Some of the cast fare better than others, but to say who would ruin the twists.

Running time is kept to a minimum, sacrificing deep relationships between the
protagonists to propel the story forwards, even if that is into the realms of
the absurd.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday

Party chief of China's Xinjiang on foiled "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China Foils Terrorist Attack on Passenger Plane" - Xinhua headline]

Beijing, March 9 (Xinhua) - China on Friday foiled a planned terrorist attack on
a passenger plane taking off from Urumqi, capital of the northwestern Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region, an official said here on Sunday.

The plane of China Southern Airlines was forced to land in Lanzhou, capital of
neighbouring Gansu Province, at 12:40 Friday, because "some people were
attempting to create an air disaster," said Wang Lequan, Politburo member of
Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central Committee and Xinjiang's Party chief.

The terrorists were stopped by the air crew in time, and all the passengers and
crew members on board are safe, he told reporters after a panel discussion at
the ongoing legislative session.

The plane arrived in its destination of Beijing on Saturday. Wang did not
elaborate on details, saying that the case is under investigation.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0918 gmt 9 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday

China "foiled" terrorist attack on plane - Xinhua

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["URGENT: China Foils Terrorist Attack on Passenger Plane" - Xinhua headline]

Beijing, March 9 (Xinhua) - China on Friday foiled a planned terrorist attack on
a passenger plane taking off from Urumqi, capital of the northwestern Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region, an official said here on Sunday.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0904 gmt 9 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday

Chinese official: Xinjiang "terrorists" planned to attack Olympics

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Terrorist Attack Prevented for Olympics: Official" - Xinhua headline]

Beijing, March 9 (Xinhua) - The terrorists killed earlier this year in the
northwestern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region had planned an attack targeting
the Beijing Olympic Games, a senior Chinese official said here on Sunday.

Chinese police smashed a terrorist gang in January in Urumqi, capital of
Xinjiang, killing two and arresting 15 others. Knives, axes and books about
terrorism were seized.

"Obviously, the gang had planned an attack targeting the Olympics," said Wang
Lequan, chief of the Xinjiang autonomous regional committee of the Communist
Party of China on the sidelines of the national parliamentary session.

The group was said to have collaborated with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement
(ETIM), a group the United Nations labelled a terrorist organization in 2002.

"The Olympic Games slated for this August is a big event, but there are always a
few people who conspire sabotages. It is no longer a secret now," said Wang.

"Those terrorists, saboteurs and secessionists are to be battered resolutely, no
matter what ethnic group they are from," said the official.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1006 gmt 9 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday

ANALYSIS Iranians accused of fuelling rise in terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Carolynne Wheeler

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 526 words


ISRAELI OFFICIALS believe Iranian support for Hamas is behind an increase in
terrorist attacks, including Thursday's deadly shooting, writes Carolynne
Wheeler.

Their warnings that Hamas's use of stronger rockets and larger-scale incursions
into Israel represent the escalation of a proxy war were echoed by Jordan's King
Abdullah.

"Those in the Iranian government that are pursuing this policy have hijacked the
Palestinian corps,'' he said in Washington on Friday. "The failure of the peace
process will get them to increase their ambitions.''

Across Israel this weekend, eerily familiar sounds cut through the springtime
air: sirens, restaurants turning televisions from music programmes to news and
teenagers phoning home to reassure parents.

Whether last week's violence amounts to a short-lived flare-up or a longer
campaign, it can be attributed, at least in part, to the funding and inspiration
supplied by Iran to Hamas and what Israelis see as its Shia counterpart in
Lebanon, Hizbollah.

"What Hizbollah has been doing for a long time is to try to recruit people in
the West Bank... to direct them to carry out terrorist attacks,'' said Ephraim
Sneh, a former Israeli deputy defence minister.

The Jerusalem religious college attacked on Thursday is the ideological heart of
Israel's Zionist movement, which has championed settlement expansion in the
occupied West Bank.

Hamas also adopted a method of ambush borrowed from Hizbollah's tactics in
southern Lebanon on Thursday, blowing up an Israeli military jeep on patrol,
killing one soldier and injuring three others, before firing mortars and
gunshots at rescue teams.

Last week's scenes of rioting in east Jerusalem and across the West Bank evoked
images from the start of the last intifada, in 2000, after peace talks fell
apart. That uprising came to an informal, uneasy end with a truce in February
2005, after more than 1,000 Israelis and 3,000 Palestinians had been killed.

The latest violence can be linked directly to Israel's operation last weekend in
Gaza, where about 120 Palestinians, including 22 children, were killed.

But it also testifies to the weariness of a Palestinian population which has
seen little tangible progress from negotiations. The economy in Gaza has
collapsed and even the more peaceful West Bank is in recession. Muhib Salameh, a
legislator from the Fatah movement of the Palestinian Authority president,
Mahmoud Abbas, said: "If the people see no political horizon... they will become
tools of extremist groups like Hizbollah and even al-Qa'eda.''

Meanwhile, militants in Gaza are still firing rockets. It is widely believed
Hamas obtained many of these rockets with financial aid from Iran

Mark Regev, the spokesman for Israel's prime minister Ehud Olmert, said: "Just
as Hizbollah controlled parts of Lebanon and through that managed to build a
formidable military machine, so that is the model for Hamas in Gaza.''

Mr Abbas is worried not only about Iranian involvement, but by what he believes
to be an al-Qa'eda presence in Gaza, which is controlled by Hamas.

"Iran has a certain influence [in Gaza], nobody ignores this,'' said Nimr Hamad,
a senior adviser to Mr Abbas.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2008 Monday

Remote area in Pakistan's Punjab being used to launch terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 561 words


Text of report headlined "Attock stands exposed to security threats: Indus
River's course diversion" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 10
March

Attock, March 9: Dried-up portion of the river bed of the Indus is increasingly
posing a security threat, especially to some sensitive facilities in Kamra,
because of unobstructed movement of delinquent elements from NWFP into Attock,
it has been learnt.

Around 30km portion of the Indus River course from the Ghourghusti village to
Attock bridge had dried up after the government authorities built a channel some
four years ago to divert the water to the Ghazi Barotha Hydro Power (GBHP)
project to generate electricity.

Officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in the past, criminal
activities in the area remained confined to drug trafficking and crime against
property. But with the countrywide surge in terrorist activities since last
year, the unchecked area along the river banks has been used to launch attacks
on defence facilities like the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC) in Kamra and
the military's training and organisational centres across the district.

Attock is the remotest district of the Punjab and it also marks the provincial
boundary with the North West Frontier Province.

The cantonment zone of Kamra had come under attack twice in the last three
months.

On December 10, 2007, a suicide bomber rammed an explosive laden car into a
military vehicle near the Fauji Gate outside PAC Kamra, injuring seven persons,
including four schoolchildren and three PAC employees.

Just after 36 days, four rockets were fired into Kamra cantonment on January 17,
however, they did not cause any casualties.

After three days of the rocket attack, the Attock police reportedly found a live
rocket with batteries and other gadgets at a sandbag launching pad near
Shamsabad village situated near the banks of dried-up river bed.

The police, in their preliminary investigation, said the terrorist elements
entered into the limits of Attock from NWFP and fled back after launching the
attack.

The officials said that despite the serious situation, the government
authorities had not devised an effective security plan for constant surveillance
in the sensitive area.

The Attock district administration and the police are trying their best to
provide security cover but their efforts have been constrained by lack of
resources, they added.

District Police Officer (DPO) Attock Tariq Hanif Joiya, when contacted, termed
the surveillance around Indus River "very essential" in the wake of the
prevailing security threats.

But he reminded that it would require high-level steps in view of the shortage
of both human and material resources on the part of the local police.

"If the government provides 200 additional personnel, vehicles, equipment and
funds, the district police will be able to ensure surveillance of the Indus
River inside the Attock district," Mr Joiya claimed.

As for the present steps, the police have deployed two patrolling teams on G.T.
Road to check movement between Attock bridge and Kamra Chowk.

Similarly, unauthorised camps of Afghan refugees and local vagabonds along the
banks of Indus River have been removed, while data of all outsiders settled in
the nearby villages is being compiled with the help of respective nazims and
notables.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 10 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 10, 2008 Monday

China claims to have thwarted terror attack on Olympics

BYLINE: Richard Spencer in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 384 words


CHINA claims to have foiled a planned terror attack on the Olympic Games as well
as a plot to crash an airliner flying to Beijing.

It was announced yesterday that two alleged terrorists were shot dead and 15
others were arrested in January during a raid on a flat in Urumqi, capital of
the so-called

Xinjiang autonomous region.

Wang Lequan, the regional Communist Party secretary, said it was "obvious'' that
an attack on the Olympics was being planned.

Meanwhile, the jet airliner plot was revealed by Nur Bekri, the governor of
Xinjiang and Mr Wang's second-in-command, who claimed that inflammable liquid
was

discovered on Friday aboard a China Southern flight.

The plane made an emergency landing in the city of Lanzhou and two passengers
were arrested, he said.

Both plots were outlined at the annual meeting of China's parliament, the
National

People's Congress. However, no reasons were given as to why they had not been
made

public earlier.

Xinjiang is the home of the Muslim Uighur minority group, and has a record of
anti-Chinese agitation, having briefly declared independence as "East
Turkestan'' in 1945. Although described as an "autonomous'' region, in fact it
is tightly controlled by Beijing.

A series of bomb attacks in the 1990s was attributed by the Chinese authorities
to the shadowy East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which they claim
continues to operate in partnership with al-Qa'eda.

President George W Bush put ETIM on a list of terrorist organisations shortly
after the Sept 11 attacks in 2001, allegedly in return for Chinese acquiescence
in the "War on Terror''.

Uighur nationalist groups based abroad, however, say there have been no
terrorist incidents in recent years and the Chinese are merely attempting to
justify their harsh repression of the region.

In what appeared to be a concerted attack on groups that the Chinese regard as
"splittists'', the same parliamentary forum was used to announce that several
conspiracies by the "Dalai Lama clique'' had been foiled in Tibet over the past
five years. Again, no details were given.

China remains anxious that Tibet support movements will use the Olympics to
garner substantial publicity. It continues to insist that the exiled Dalai Lama
is more than a spiritual leader and is drumming up "separatist tendencies''
among his followers.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             March 10, 2008 Monday

China foils terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 365 words


The China Southern flight originated in Urumqi, capital of the far western
Chinese region of Xinjiang, where militant Uighurs have agitated for an
independent "East Turkestan". It landed in the northwestern city of Lanzhou on
Friday after the crew discovered and foiled the attempt to "cause an air
disaster", said Xinjiang Governor Nuer Baikeli.

"Who the people involved in the incident were, where they were from, what their
aim was and what their background was, we are now investigating," he said.

The official Xinhua news agency said authorities had "foiled a terrorist
attack".

"Fortunately our air crew took resolute measures, discovered and put a stop to
this action promptly. All the passengers, crew and the aircraft are safe," the
governor said, adding the flight arrived in Beijing Saturday.

A source with knowledge of the incident told Reuters that at least two
passengers on flight CZ6901 have been taken into custody for questioning. The
source, who requested anonymity, said inflammable material was found in the
plane's toilet.

Repeated calls to the spokesman's office of China Southern went unanswered.

Xinhua said that "the suspects were currently in custody in Lanzhou", without
providing other details.

Xinjiang is home to eight million Muslim Uighurs, many of whom resent the
growing presence and economic grip of Han Chinese. The oil-rich region borders
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia. A senior Chinese official has warned
that Uighurs - a Turkic, largely Islamic people who share linguistic and
cultural bonds with Central Asia - were plotting attacks on the Beijing
Olympics.

China has said its police had shot dead two members of a "terrorist gang" and
rounded up 15 others in a raid in January in Xinjiang.

Xinjiang's Communist Party boss Wang Lequan said the gang's aim had been to
attack the Olympics.

In January 2007, Chinese forces killed 18 people described as terrorists in a
gun battle in Xinjiang. Onepoliceman was killed and another wounded in the raid
on a training camp in the mountains of the Pamirs plateau in southern Xinjiang.

The Xinjiang governor, himself an ethnic Uighur, said only a "very small number
of people" in the region support the separatists.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 11, 2008, Tuesday

MY TERROR IN GANG REVENGE ATTACK;
EXCLUSIVE MUM-TO-BE TELLS OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY RAID ON HER HOME

BYLINE: By Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 501 words


A PREGNANT woman has fled her home with her family after a terrifying siege by
gangsters armed with bricks, iron bars and pool cues.

Laura O'Hare, who is due to give birth on Sunday, and husband Mark fear they
were the victims of a revenge attack because of mistaken identity.

One of the men shouted: "High Court grass" as the couple, both 37, cowered in a
bedroom with daughters Emma, eight, and Kerry, six, during their ordeal on
Sunday evening.

The thugs also smashed their door with a pool cue and threw a brick through
their living room window with such force it smashed a back wall.

Laura is now unwilling to return to the home in Queensby Avenue, Baillieston,
Glasgow, despite the imminent birth.

She said: "It was the most terrifying experience of my life and I was terrified
for my daughters' sakes.

"They were hysterical with fright and all we could do was barricade ourselves
in. We expected them to come through the door at any minute."

She added: "I just want these attackers to realise there is no way we could be
the people they hold their vendetta against.

"This is not the world we know. We don't have anything to do with gangsters or
violence or anything else at the High Court."

Police who responded to the 999 call gathered splinters from a pool cue and
various bricks from the scene, which the gang carried with them.

Neighbours saw the men wield iron bars as they peered through windows and tried
to enter the three-bedroom home.

Mark, a service engineer, said the gang's violence flared up when they saw him
through the window.

He said: "They were banging on the door and at first I thought it was my dad or
a friend.

"I had been running the bath for the girls upstairs but I ran downstairs when I
realised something wasn't right.

"Laura had opened the window to shout at the people outside because she assumed
at first they were kids.

"When I looked out, they seemed to be walking away but when they saw there was a
man in the house, they went berserk. I grabbed the phone and ran upstairs with
the family .

"The 999 operator advised me to barricade the door and not to arm myself. They
were banging at the doors and windows and throwing bricks.

"They eventually gave up just before the police arrived but we are still
shocked.

"Laura has dealt with it incredibly well, given her condition, but she doesn't
want to go back.

"We just hope word will get out that whoever these people might be, they were
after the wrong people.

"We have never been in trouble in our lives."

Mark said the family were unsure where they would stay up until the birth of the
baby.

He said: "We moved into the house three years ago and I have spent that time
renovating the place.

"We have made it perfect for us and it would be beyond belief if we have to move
after all the work we have done."

A police spokeswoman confirmed that officers investigating the attack believed
the gang had targeted the wrong people.

She said: "It is believed the incident may relate to a case of mistaken identity
and our inquiries are continuing."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN FEAR: The family. Above, a smashed window
TONY NICOLETTI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday

City traders get tips on attacks by terrorists

BYLINE: Eilidh Davies

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Crime Prevention; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 379 words


There is nothing to suggest the Highlands are at risk of a terrorist attack, but
there is still a need for vigilance and readiness, business leaders were told
yesterday when Inverness staged its first counter terrorism seminar in a local
church.

Detective Sergeant Philip Chesworth, counter terrorism security adviser with
Northern Constabulary, told shopkeepers and organisations from Inverness and
Moray at Inshes Church of Scotland that it was up to them to make their
community as safe as anywhere else in the UK.

The audience watched a DVD which showed a simulated attack on a shopping centre.
Delegates were also told of the importance of having plans in place before an
attack happens to raise awareness and so staff know what to do in the event.

They were also told to report any suspicious activity to police.

Det Sgt Chesworth said: "We are trying to give appropriate advice to local
businesses and organisations, particularly on how to handle an attack and how to
recover from terrorist incidents.

"We are looking to prevent such an incident happening by raising awareness of
suspicious activity."

He added that experience showed that a team, prior to carrying out a terrorist
attack, carry out a hostile recce to check the position of CCTV cameras and
study the layout of targets with maps.

Mr Chesworth said: "There is nothing to suggest that the Highlands, islands or
Grampian will be specifically targeted with a terrorist attack, but what we need
to make sure is that our community is as safe as anywhere else in the UK."

About 60 people took part in Project Argus, which was developed by the National
Counter Terrorism Security Office in London. Argus events have been successfully
run in 200 towns and cities across the UK.

Northern Constabulary Chief Constable Ian Latimer said that, previously, when he
had worked in places such as Liverpool, the terrorist threat had then come from
the Provisional IRA.

He added: "Scotland had never felt particularly threatened by that, perhaps
through the Celtic relationship. But since 9/11 and the events in London in 2005
and in Glasgow last year, the threat is on a very different scale entirely."

Mr Latimer was operational commander when the decision was taken to call off the
Aintree Grand National 1997 after a bomb threat.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday

Terrorists planning attacks on American firms detained in Turkey

LENGTH: 434 words


Text of report by Turkish daily Hurriyet website on 10 March

[Report by Belma Altuncu, Mehmet Aktaran, and Ozgur Arslan in Istanbul: "Bomb
Attack Plan Using Toy Cars Against American Companies"]

Three individuals have been captured in Istanbul who are claimed to have been
making preparations against American companies on behalf of the illegal DHKP/C
[Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front] organization.

Istanbul Counter-Terrorism and Intelligence Section Teams, continuing their
surveillance against the DHKP/C organization following the capture and arrest a
month ago of Asuman Akca, its person in charge of Istanbul, conducted a raid on
5 March 2008 against a safe house in Kucukcekmece [suburb of Istanbul]. In the
raid, Omer B. O. and Deniz S., who had past records of similar offences, were
detained, as well as Zeynel K., who was aiding and abetting them.

Materials Seized

Along with the suspects were seized 1 Kalashnikov automatic weapon, 2 pistols,
ammunition cartridges and clips for the pistols, 1 portable telephone prepared
as an explosive device, electronic equipment used in making bombs, 35 kilograms
of artificial fertilizer used in making explosives, 1 pipe-bomb, 2 [computer]
flash disks, 2 counterfeit identity cards, and a toy car made into a
remote-control device.

The suspects, who were questioned in the Counter-Terrorism Section, used their
right to remain silent and did not make statements.

American Firms Targeted

It was determined during the investigation conducted that these individuals had
been making preparations for assassinations and armed bomb attacks of a
sensational nature. In searches made of the location where the suspects, learned
to have been construction workers, were residing, documents containing the names
and addresses of a large number of American companies, including Coca Cola,
Pepsi, and Citibank, were seized.

Attack Plan With Toy Cars

According to the information obtained, the suspects, who were ascertained to
have been targeting American firms in Istanbul, had been planning to stage bomb
attacks with remotely controlled toy cars. It was determined that the suspects,
in order to thwart the measures that police have taken against portable
telephones used as detonators in bomb attacks, had been planning to utilize
remotely controlled toy cars, and had turned the remote-control devices of the
cars into bomb detonation devices.

After their processing in the Security Directorate was completed, Deniz S.,
Ozgur Baris O., and Zeynel K. were brought before the Istanbul Court at
Besiktas.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in Turkish 10 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday

Two Algerian municipal guards killed in terrorist attack - paper

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report by B. H. headlined "Tissemsilt: Two municipal guards killed in a
terrorist attack", published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 12 March

At around 0800 [local time] yesterday, a terrorist attack took place on the
municipal road linking the hamlet of El Fouara to the main town in the
municipality of Boucaid (the community is located on National Road [RN] 19).

The toll was two municipal guards killed and a third seriously wounded. The
latter was taken to the Tissemsilt hospital's emergency room. The tragedy
occurred when the guards were en route to Boucaid where they needed service on
board a four-wheel drive Toyota. They suddenly fell into an ambush that had been
laid by the terrorist group whose number, thus far, is not known, and were
riddled with bullets. Taking advantage of the fact that the area is steep, the
terrorist group was able to flee into the region's dense forest. Once alerted,
the combined forces blocked off the scene of the attack. Owing to its geographic
position, this community has recorded several attacks of this sort which, three
years ago, cost two other municipal guards and several civilians their lives.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 12 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday

Terrorists attack plot credibility

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 64 words


Vantage Point (Exeter Odeon and Vue) is an intricate action-thriller, which
replays a  terrorist attack from eight perspectives -  but coincidence and
chance nudge the film increasingly towards implausibility.

Deep relationships between the protagonists are sacrificed  to propel the story
forwards. Stars Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox and William Hurt. Details: 08712
240240, 08712 244007.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday

Girls' terror as Rottweiler attacked

BYLINE: David Deans

SECTION: LATEST NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


TWO YOUNG Cwmbran girls were terrified by a rottweiler attack.

Now their mother is demanding that the owners be prosecuted and the dog be
destroyed.

Chloe, 9, and Jessica Doheny, 13, were attacked while out playing in Saffron
Close, Ty-Canol on Sunday.

Police say the same dog had attacked a young boy earlier the same day.

At 7.50pm a Rottweiler, said to be almost a metre tall, turned on the girls
after initially playing with them.

The dog was alleged to have grabbed Chloe on her waist , "picking her up" and
throwing her about like a rag doll.

Her sister, who was also attacked, bravely tried to protect her sister.

Both girls received cuts and bruises.

Their mother, Dawn Prendergast, 35, said they were taken to the Royal Gwent to
be bandaged up.

Chloe, who says she wants to be a dog handler when she's older, said she was
terrified by the attack.

She said: "We were playing with it. It was nice for a bit but then it turned on
us.

"The attack was really scary. It seemed to go on forever.

"We have our own dog called Marley and he never does anything like that."

Mother-of-three Ms Prendergast said she would like to see the dog destroyed.

"People need to be more vigilant of these types of dogs - they should be
muzzled. If our dog gets irritated it will start barking, but this wouldn't give
you any warning."

A police spokeswoman said the dog has been formally seized by the police and is
in private kennels.

They are pursing a prosecution under the Dangerous Dogs Act, although they are
pursuing enquiries regarding ownership of the dog.

A number of people have claimed to be the animal's owner, and officers have
asked for the real owner of the dog to come forward.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday

Girls' terror as Rottweiler attacked

BYLINE: David Deans

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: South Wales Argus


TWO YOUNG Cwmbran girls were terrified by a rottweiler attack.

Now their mother is demanding that the owners be prosecuted and the dog be
destroyed.

Chloe, 9, and Jessica Doheny, 13, were attacked  while out playing in Saffron
Close, Ty-Canol on Sunday.

Police say the same dog had attacked a young boy earlier the same day.

At 7.50pm a Rottweiler, said to be almost a metre tall, turned on the girls
after initially playing with them.

The dog was alleged to have grabbed Chloe on her waist, "picking her up" and
throwing her about like a rag doll.

Her sister, who was also attacked, bravely tried to protect her sister.

Both girls received cuts and bruises.

Their mother, Dawn Prendergast, 35, said they were taken to the Royal Gwent to
be bandaged up.

Chloe, who says she wants to be a dog handler when she's older, said she was
terrified by the attack.

She said: "We were playing with it. It was nice for a bit but then it turned on
us.

"The attack was really scary. It seemed to go on forever.

"We have our own dog called Marley and he never does anything like that."

Mother-of-three Ms Prendergast said she would like to see the dog destroyed.

"People need to be more vigilant of these types of dogs - they should be
muzzled. If our dog gets irritated it will start barking, but this wouldn't give
you any warning."

A police spokeswoman said the dog has been formally seized by the police and is
in private kennels.

They are pursing a prosecution under the Dangerous Dogs Act, although they are
pursuing enquiries regarding ownership of the dog.

A number of people have claimed to be the animal's owner, and officers have
asked for the real owner of the dog to come forward.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chloe Doheny 9 with her injuries after she was attacked by a dog
pictured at home in Cwmbran

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 16, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

SMEATON: THEY ARE OUT TO GET ME;
Eyewitnesses cast doubt over airport hero's role in terrorist attack

BYLINE: SCOTTISH EXCLUSIVE By Mark Stevenson and Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 1677  words


TERROR hero John Smeaton was last night branded "a fake" amid astonishing claims
he exaggerated his involvement in stopping the two Glasgow Airport bombers.

Eyewitnesses have cast serious doubts over the former baggage handler's role in
thwarting the men who drove a blazing jeep into the terminal last year.

Smeaton, who collected a Queen's Gallantry Medal this month, achieved celebrity
status after boasting about how he landed a "karate kick" on one of the bombers.

His warning to would-be terrorists that "Glasgow doesn't accept this - we'll set
aboot ye" also sparked a chain of events that led to him being honoured in New
York and London as well as Scotland.

But in a sensational twist, the men - who also claimed to have fended off the
terrorists and are fighting for recognition for their efforts - have rounded on
Smeaton, 31, and insisted he has grossly exaggerated his involvement.

Alex McIlveen, who tore a tendon in his foot whilst kicking burning Kafeel
Ahmed, told the Sunday Express: "John Smeaton is not telling the whole truth.
When it came to tackling the bombers, he didn't land a blow."

The sensational claims are the first time the group, dubbed the "band of
brothers" by some media, have spoken out against Smeaton.

But yesterday the 'hero' hit back at the claims and insisted his account of
events is true.

Mr Smeaton said: "As far as I'm concerned there are certain people who have
agendas against me.

"I've only got one story to tell, I ran up and went for the guy and then grabbed
an injured man and dragged him away.

"And if people want to make allegations that I didn't do that then I'll just sit
back and go 'No problem'."

But despite his pleas, Mr McIlveen insists the only thing Smeaton had been
honoured for were his famous words on the day.

He said: "It was the policeman, Michael Kerr and myself who tackled the first
bomber after he got out the passenger side of the jeep. Then it was Stephen
Clarkson, myself and three other policemen who tried to stop the second one who
was on fire.

As far as I'm concerned, at no point did John Smeaton attempt to tackle the
bombers."

He added: "Let's not kid ourselves here. The only reason Smeaton got so much
attention is because of what he said afterwards about Glasgow not tolerating
terrorists.

"But surely that isn't worthy of a Gallantry Medal? It is just ridiculous.
Everytime I see him on the TV or in the papers pretending to shed tears and all
that it just makes me so angry. He is a fake."

David Clarkson, the brother of Stephen, said: "People think Smeaton is a hero,
and that's a shame."

While Mr Smeaton has become a household name, Mr McIlveen, Mr Clarkson and Mr
Kerr are all fighting for recognition for their attempts to tackle the bombers
at Glasgow Airport on June 30.

Mr Kerr, a heating engineer from Stirlingshire, was the first member of the
public on the scene after the Jeep Cherokee, laden with gas canisters, drove
into the terminal at 3:11pm.

It is believed he was floored and had his leg broken by medic Bilal Abdullah,
who came out the passenger side of the vehicle and attacked police officer
Torquil Campbell.

The men say Mr Kerr, 40, was then pulled away from the car by airport worker
Mary McCandlish, after she called for assistance from Mr Smeaton, who was
standing watching the drama unfold as he had a cigarette outside the terminal
building.

And whilst Mr Smeaton collected a string of bravery awards Mrs McCandlish
received only two cinema tickets for her actions.

Mr McIlveen, 46, said: "Michael was lying with a broken leg when Mary ran over.
But she couldn't move him on her own so called over to Smeaton, who was watching
everything unfold.

"It was only then that John did anything. He helped Mary pull Michael away from
the jeep and then just stood there shouting at the bombers as the rest of us
piled in.

"So, basically all he got an award for was helping some lassie pull a man to
safety. He even admitted he only went to help Michael once he had been asked to
by Mary.

"Smeaton is milking the whole thing for as much as he can get and it makes me
angry. Myself, Michael and Stephen have had enough."

Last week it emerged the Glasgow heroes had been snubbed by Gordon Brown for
Gallantry Medals. The Prime Minister's Office wrote to relatives of the men
saying they did not meet the required criteria for the awards.

Mr McIlveen said: "All this nonsense about Smeaton backing the campaign for all
of us to get medals is rubbish.

"He hasn't even signed the petition. He couldn't care less.

"He has turned the whole of the Glasgow bombing attempt into the John Smeaton
show."

Mr Smeaton became an overnight sensation around the world because of his
energetic television interviews in the aftermath of the attempted bombing.

Since then, he has received a Pride of Britain Award, a CNN Every Day honour,
been voted Scotland's third most eligible male, flown to New York and received
the Queen's Gallantry Medal at Buckingham Palace.

He also has a weekly column in a tabloid newspaper, regularly appears on
television talk shows and has been a VIP guest of the Prime Minister and First
Minister.

But yesterday another one of the heroes, who floored Ahmed with an elbow to the
head before police wrestled the maniac to the ground, also claimed Smeaton had
exaggerated his claims.

David Clarkson, whose hero brother Stephen has this week been in hospital for
treatment on his brain, said: "Stephen didn't see John Smeaton there at all.

"John Smeaton's story is varying all the time. He turned around to me at one
point after and said 'All I did is got a kick in but I don't even know if it
connected or not'."

Mr Clarkson said the men are hoping that the truth about Mr Smeaton's
involvement will emerge during the trial of terror suspect Abdullah.

He said: "Nobody really knows what John Smeaton's done. And anybody that I've
spoken to has said the same thing.

"I can't wait for the trial.

"John Smeaton is going to be exposed. That's what we've been saying all along."

As he prepared for a brain scan, Stephen Clarkson confirmed he did not see
Smeaton tackle the bombers.

Speaking from his hospital bed, he said: "He's a hero for what he said.

"Mary was the one to shout at John to give her a hand to help with Michael.
That's more or less it. All this time I have just been thinking that the truth
will all come out in court."

Yesterday Mary McCandlish declined to comment, but her husband, Ian, confirmed
she had asked Mr Smeaton for his help to pull Mr Kerr away from the burning
jeep.

And a friend of the security worker said: "John Smeaton is riding a tiger and
he's too scared to get off."

Mr Kerr, who is still recovering from his injuries nine months after the attack,
could not be contacted.

But his wife, Annette, said in an earlier interview: "Michael was the first
person to help the policeman and got injured in the process. While John was
being interviewed on television, my husband was still being interviewed by
police as he was being wheeled into the operating theatre.'' Last night Mr
Smeaton spoke of his shock that the other heroes had turned against him.

He said: "I'm very, very surprised because I've backed their campaign to get
medals all the way and genuinely help them out. I've not looked for publicity, I
don't go chasing after it. I don't search for anything.

"As far as I'm concerned I'm not that bothered about it all. I don't think I
would have got a medal for nothing so, I don't know.

"As I know, I connected with the passenger from the jeep. As far as I can
remember in my head that's what I've done.

"So, I've got no qualms of what I've said, what I've said is the exact truth.

There's only that one story I've got to tell and you know I've got nothing else
to say about it.

"I've always tried to make sure that I mention the other guys wherever I've been
and whatever I've done. I've not gone chasing after anything.

"There is a petition online but I haven't signed it because I haven't been
online, I've been working long hours so I haven't had a chance. But I will sign
it. I think Alex, Stephen and Michael need to be recognised in exactly the same
way.

"Nobody did anything different that day. Why I got singled out that day I still
don't know."

Mr Smeaton insists that he has never exaggerated his claims and has blamed the
media for whipping up a frenzy around his actions.

And in a bizarre outburst he also claimed the owners of Glasgow Airport, BAA,
have launched a hate campaign against him.

He said: "When it comes to what I did that day, I've not blown this out of
proportion, the media has blown it out of proportion, I've not. As far as I'm
concerned certain people from the BAA can go and take a flying **** out of
themselves. I mean the British Airport Authority have said **** all to me.
They've not said anything to me and as far as I'm concerned the British Airport
Authority are out to get me.

"They gave me nothing. I've never had a word of thanks or anything from the
British Airport Authority.

Nothing. The airport authority don't like people who don't work for them."

Mr Smeaton insists the truth about what he did that day will come out when CCTV
footage of his actions is played at the trial of suspect Abdullah.

He said: "The police have matched me up with CCTV footage because they came
around and asked me exactly where I was that day. If I wasn't there and hadn't
done that they would have said 'Naah, he's talking a lot of *****'. As far as
I'm concerned there are certain people who have certain agendas against people
because they are just ****** off."

When asked about Mr Smeaton's claim of a campaign against him, a spokesman for
BAA said: "The precise events of June 30, 2007, will no doubt come out in court
in an appropriate way. However, it is clear that on the day, several people,
John Smeaton included, came to the assistance of Glasgow Airport.

"We're grateful for the efforts of all those involved from our own fire and
security staff to the other airport employees and members of the public."

A spokeswoman for Strathclyde Police said they were not able to discuss the CCTV
footage from the airport due to "issues of sub judice".

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEDAL: The Queen honours John Smeaton Picture: MARTIN KEENE/PA
CRIME STOPPERS: Far left, Alex McIlveen, Michael Kerr, John Smeaton and Stephen
Clarkson at Glasgow Airport while, above John Smeaton and his family pose
outside Buckingham Palace before John got his gallantry medal and right, John
Smeaton meets First Minister Alex Salmond at the Scottish Parliament in
Edinburgh Pictures: FIONA HANSON/PA and CHRIS WATT/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 17, 2008 Monday

Pakistan police get letter threatening terror attacks in Lahore

LENGTH: 489 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 16 March

Lahore [Punjab Province]: Police high-ups have received an anonymous letter
threatening more attacks in Lahore if police continue to ignore advice to act
against immoral activities against the basic principles of Islam in Lawrence
Garden and Bagh-e-Jinnah, Lahore.

The anonymous letter addressed to the Lahore SSP [senior superintendent of
police] (operations) with a copy forwarded to Punjab chief secretary, the Punjab
IGP [inspector-general of police], the Lahore CCPO [capital city police
officer], the Lahore DCO [district coordination officer], the Punjab home
secretary, the agriculture secretary, SP [superintendent of police] (Civil Lines
division), Lahore, and chief editors of various newspapers.

The letter has drawn the attention of the provincial government and senior
police officials towards immoral activities at Bagh-e-Jinnah. According to the
author(s) of the letter, a few selected professional prostitutes were operating
openly in Lawrence Garden, Bagh-e-Jinnah, Lahore, without the fear of police
since long.

The letter said that police authorities, despite two similar previous warnings,
had not paid any attention on curbing vulgarity aimed at making an Islamic
society unislamic and moderate in line with the policymakers' understanding and
to please the West.

Some independent analysts, however, believe that the anonymous letter was aimed
at diverting public attention from the issues of retaliation in the form of
suicide attacks by the victims of military operation in Swat [North-West
Frontier Province] and other tribal areas of the country.

Some observers believe that the letter has something to do with Islamization, as
was witnessed in Lal Masjid [Red Mosque] episode, because the writers of this
letter, and the two previous ones, had adopted a Taleban-like method to reform
the society after purging the society of vulgarity and obscenity, which they
said was rampant after the adoption of the Women's Protection Bill.

The anonymous letter reads: "Few selected professional prostitutes are dealing
in the activity of sex with males of every age openly in Lawrence Garden,
Bagh-e-Jinnah, Lahore, without the fear of police since long. But Lahore police
and high-ups are not taking any step against them due to enlightened moderation
policy. Despite advice issued twice, sufficient steps to stop this
evil/unislamic activity in Lawrence Garden are not being taken by the Lahore
police."

The letter said: "It was clearly and sympathetically advised twice and this is
the third time. We have no personal enmity with police and security forces, but
if police and law-enforcement agencies are not going to act upon our legal
demands then more severe attacks will continue taking place in Lahore. It is
also pointed out that our determination is still high we can never be
discouraged."

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 16 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             March 17, 2008, Monday

HEROES AT WAR;
SMEATO ACCUSED OF 'DOING NOTHING' IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Janice Burns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words


SCOTLAND'S terror attack heroes were at war last night after John Smeaton was
branded a fake.

Alex McIlveen, right, claimed John "stood smoking a fag" while others tackled
the terrorists, adding: "He's a fake who should have been exposed a long time
ago."

But last night, Smeato described the allegation as "sad", adding: "It is a
strange world when some people try and blow out your candle to make their own
grow brighter."

Taxi driver Alex, 45, who tore a tendon kicking burning Kafeel Ahmed in the
privates, broke his silence after John received a gallantry medal last week.

He told the Record: "I saw John getting his medal from the Queen and it really
p***** me off because he didn't do anything.

"He just stood there smoking a cigarette and watched while we all got stuck in
and he has been taking all the credit for it since.

"John changes his story every time he opens his mouth.

"There were no heroics on his part, no karate kicks or James Bond stunts.

He didn't land a blow on anyone.

"The only reason John Smeaton got so much attention is because of what he said
afterwards about Glasgow not tolerating terrorists.

"He has turned the whole of the Glasgow bombing attempt into the John Smeaton
show."

Last night, Alex claimed John only got involved when airport worker Mary
McCandlish shouted to him for help to drag Michael Kerr away from the burning
Jeep.

He said: "John has admitted to us all that it wasMary who shouted on him to pull
Michael away.

"All he did was pull Michael away from the burning Jeep because Mary asked him
to.

"It is certainly not sour grapes fromme. I just feel that it is time the truth
came out.

"It has been troubling me for months but I kept biting my tongue until I saw him
with the Queen and I thought, 'enough is enough'.

"It should have come out ages ago and John should have the guts to hold his
hands up and admit that all he did was pull Michael away and that was it.

"I think he got so carried away with himself that he didn't know where to stop."

Since the attack, John, 31, has met Prime Minister Gordon Brown four times and
was congratulated by him at the Labour Party conference.

In December, he went to New York to receive an Everyday Superhero award from
TV's CNN.

Replying to the claims last night, John said: "It's very sad that after all this
time some individuals who have been on public record acknowledging what happened
should now choose to see things differently.

"I am relaxed and confident about the situation. I have never felt worthy of any
praise that has been given to me - however, if others want to acknowledge your
involvement there's very little you can do other than try and graciously accept
their kindness."

John stressed: "There were several lads who helped on that day. As I've said
over and over again, they all should be recognised for their efforts and
behaviour instead of debating who did the most. It shouldn't be turned into a
competition."

Last night, groundsman Stephen Clarkson, who wrestled Kafeel Ahmed to the
ground, admitted: "Those who were there and saw what happened have been talking
about John's involvement or lack of it for a while and I am not surprised it has
come out.

"John has been made a hero for his words. I didn't see him at the airport but I
have said all along that John is ahero for what he said.

"John told me he tried to boot one of the terrorists but he didn't know if it
connected.

"I do not hold anything against John, he is a thoroughly nice guy but if he has
told lies, that's a different story.

"I have no reason to doubt Alex,he is a genuine guy. Other people who were there
have told me exactly the same thing - why would they say that if it wasn't true?

"It will be interesting to see what comes out at the terror attack trial.

"It is not sour grapes with Alex. I think he just got sick of John always
getting the credit for something he believes he didn't do."

Another hero of the attack, heating engineerMichael Kerr, 40, broke his leg and
smashed his teeth as he fought the bombers. It was he who was pulled to safety
by airport worker Mary.

But last night, he told the Record: "I am saying nothing. I just want to forget
all about it."

His wife Annette, who launched a campaign to get Queen's Gallantry Medals for
all the airport heroes, said: "Michael is grateful to John for helping to pull
him away from the vehicle and we don't wish him any ill will.

"We've heard all the stories about John but we don't want to be drawn into an
anti-John Smeaton campaign.

"I feel really sad it has come to this.

It is such a shame."

'I kept biting my tongue until I saw him with the Queen'

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEDAL: Smeaton after getting his gong from the Queen, which was the
last straw for Alex
FRIEND: Stephen Clarkson
HONOURED: Smeaton gets his award. Main pic, Alex McIlveen PHILDYE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

Hero of Glasgow terror attack 'did not land a blow'

BYLINE: Ben Quinn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


John Smeaton, one of the "have-a-go-heroes" who helped police subdue two
would-be suicide bombers at Glasgow airport last year, rejected claims yesterday
that he had exaggerated his role in the incident.

The former baggage handler shot to fame after helping police stop two men who
tried to drive a burning jeep into the airport last June. After the incident, he
gave a series of interviews to the international media, warning terrorists off
attempting similar attacks in his own colourful brogue. "This is Glasgow - We'll
just set aboot ye," he said.

However, eight months on, one of the other men who assisted police in tackling
the terrorists has reportedly branded Mr Smeaton a fake, claiming that the
31-year-old was not telling the whole truth.

"When it came to tackling the bombers, he didn't land a blow," claimed Alex
McIlveen, whose own exploits at the airport were immortalised in one newspaper
headline: "I kicked burning terrorist so hard in balls that I tore tendon in my
foot."

The taxi driver said at the weekend: "Let's not kid ourselves here. The only
reason John Smeaton got so much attention is because of what he said afterwards
about Glasgow not tolerating terrorists. He has turned the whole of the bombing
attempt into the John Smeaton show."

Mr Smeaton, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, responded to Mr McIlveen's claims
yesterday by saying: "I have only got one story to tell and it is the one you
have read about or watched me tell on Richard and Judy."

He referred further press queries to a statement issued by a public relations
firm acting for a company operating an airport car park, where he is now head of
security.

The statement quoted him as saying: "It's very sad that after all this time some
individuals who have been on public record acknowledging what happened should
now choose to see things differently. I'm confident and relaxed about the
situation. I have never felt worthy of any praise that has been given to me
however, if others want to acknowledge your involvement there's very little you
can do other than try and graciously accept their kindness."

It added: "It is a strange world when some people try and blow out your candle
to make their own grow brighter."

Mr Smeaton insisted that he had long wanted the others who helped to be
honoured, adding: "As I've said over and over again they all should be
recognised for their efforts and behaviour instead of debating who did the most.
It should not be turned into a competition."

In the time since the failed attack on Glasgow airport, Mr Smeaton has been
singled out for praise by politicians and the press as a heroic example of
British steadfastness in the face of terror.

The Scot was presented with the Queen's Gallantry Medal earlier this month at
Buckingham Palace, where the Queen congratulated him, and he was also honoured
at the Labour Party conference in Bourne-mouth by Gordon Brown.

Mr Smeaton was given an award at the Daily Mirror's Pride of Britain Awards last
year alongside Mr McIlveen and the other two men who helped the police in the
incident last year, Michael Kerr and Stephen Clarkson.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             March 18, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorists attack plot credibility

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 63 words


Vantage Point (Exeter Odeon and Vue) is an intricate action-thriller, which
replays a terrorist attack from eight perspectives - but coincidence and chance
nudge the film increasingly towards implausibility.

Deep relationships between the protagonists are sacrificed to propel the story
forwards. Stars Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox and William Hurt. Details: 08712
240240, 08712 244007.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 18, 2008 Tuesday

World - Two killed and six hurt in Thailand terror attacks

LENGTH: 154 words


A bomb and a drive-by shooting in Thailand's insurgency-plagued south killed two
people and wounded six, mostly children playing near their homes, police
reported on Monday.

The bomb, which was hidden in a parked motorcycle, exploded in front of a house
under construction in Yala, one of three southern provinces where an Islamist
insurgency has flared since 2004.

One six-year-old boy and two seven-year-old girls were severely wounded.

Two other children and a soldier patrolling the area were slightly wounded by
the bomb, which had been triggered by a mobile phone.

No-one immediately claimed responsibility, but authorities said that suspected
Islamist insurgents had been targeting soldiers who were patrolling the area.

More than 2,900 people have been killed in the insurgency since early 2004.

Authorities have failed to quell the Islamist rebellion, despite the presence of
40,000 troops and police officers in the region.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

Eighteen wounded in "terrorist" attack on school in Yemen - TV

LENGTH: 311 words


Text of report by state-owned Yemeni TV on 18 March

A responsible source at the Interior Ministry said that today, Tuesday, 18 March
2008, at 1230 pm, the 7 July Girls' School, in the Sa'wan area in the capital,
near the US embassy, was subjected to an attack with three projectiles thrown
from a distance by extremist elements. This regrettable terrorist attack led to
wounding thirteen girls of the school, three of them sustained serious wounds,
in addition to wounding five soldiers who were on guard duty near the school.

The security forces are continuing their investigation to find further
information about the incident and its perpetrators.

The source expressed its strong condemnation of this cowardly terrorist act
which targeted the lives of innocent people and aimed to undermine society's
peace and security.

The Interior Ministry stresses that it will not be slack in chasing these
criminal terrorists, catching them and bringing them to justice to receive their
deterrent punishment as soon as possible.

Brother Dr Rashad Muhammad al-Alimi, the deputy prime minister and interior
minister, Brother Dr Abd-al-Karim Rasa', the minister of public health and
population, Brother Dr Abd-al-Salam al-Jawfi, the minister of education, Dr
Yahia al-Shu'aybi, the minister of state and mayor of the capital, and a number
of other officials visited the wounded among the students and soldiers who are
being treated in hospitals to reassure themselves about their health, follow up
the medical care they are being given and console their families.

The Interior Ministry urges all the brother citizens to cooperate with the
security services to provide any information that can contribute to chasing,
apprehending the perpetrators and bringing them to justice, while wishing the
wounded prompt recovery.

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1800 gmt 18 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

Yemeni ruling party condemns "terrorist" attack on school

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report by state-owned Yemeni TV on 18 March

Here follows the condemnation of the General People's Congress:

The General People's Congress [GPC] condemned the cowardly terrorist incident
which targeted the 7 July School in the capital in which 13 female students and
five soldiers were wounded. The incident spread fear among the girls who were
having their lessons at the school. The GPC considers that this horrible
criminal act goes against the values of our religion, Islamic creed and the
morals of our society. It described those who carried out this cowardly action
as the enemies of life and the enemies of security, stability and development.
Their conscience is dead and has been stripped of any human values. They carry
extremist and deviant ideas of the dark ages and lack any religious or moral
restraint. Their hopes will fail and they will not be able to stop the march of
knowledge, progress, construction and development [the GPC said].

The GPC called upon the political parties and organizations, the civil society
organizations and the good people among the sons of the homeland to condemn this
criminal action and face up to those regressive people who are full of hatred.
It also urged the security services to chase the perpetrators and arrest them so
that they receive punishment for what they have committed against society.

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1800 gmt 18 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

Israeli West Bank settlements face security funding cuts, terror attacks feared

LENGTH: 656 words


Text of report in English by Israeli newspaper The Jerusalem Post website on 19
March

[Report by jpost.com staff: "Settlements Face Heavy Security Cuts"]

Security officers in West Bank settlements have warned that government cutbacks
to their security budget was greatly hindering their operational capability and
could lead to disaster, such as a terrorist infiltration into a Jewish
settlement, Army Radio reported. According to the report, the Finance Ministry
has also stopped transferring funds for the installation of plastic windows in
settlers' cars, despite the resent onslaught of rock throwing incidents in the
West Bank.

The Home Front Command transfers the funds, which are mainly diverted towards
maintaining the security infrastructure in West Bank settlements, on a yearly
basis. This year, however, only part of the funds were transferred - not enough
to maintain security fences and replace faulty equipment such as sensors and
security cameras that broke down over the year. The cutbacks amounted to up to
70 per cent of security needs in the settlements, the report stated.

The head of security at the Yesha Council, Shlomo Vaknin, told Army Radio that
the cutbacks meant that a deadly terrorist infiltration into a West Bank
settlement was only a matter of time.

"We need these funds right away," Vaknin said. "Actually, with the first glitch
the systems will simply collapse, there will be cumulative damage, and it will
not be long before a town is infiltrated without prior warning. It takes only
one such infiltration to cause disaster."

MK Arye Eldad (NU-NRP), himself a resident of the settlement of Kfar Adumim,
claimed that the cutbacks were politically motivated.

"There is a trend, which is becoming more and more noticeable, to forsake the
security of the Jews in Judea and Samaria, especially those who live outside the
security fence," he said. "Those who sacrifice the lives and security of the
residents of Judea and Samaria will eventually also have blood on their hands."

Some officials told Army Radio that the cutbacks stemmed from the decision to
raise NIS 300 million for the fortification of Gaza periphery towns.

An IDF spokesman told Army Radio that responsibility for the cutbacks lay with
the political echelon: "The Home Front Command contributes yearly to the various
day-to-day expenses of maintaining security in the towns. Since this year we
received a budget that was markedly smaller than the demands put forth by the
Home Front Command, at this point only part of the budget for maintaining
security apparatuses in the towns will be transferred. The Defence Ministry and
the Home Front Command are continuing talks with the Finance Ministry in order
to expand the budget and fill the needs in this important matter."

According to the Finance Ministry, "The 2008 defence budget was set in
accordance with the government decision and according to the Brodet (Committee)
plan. The Defence Ministry has therefore received a pronounced increase to its
budget."

The Defence Ministry, the Finance Ministry claimed, "is responsible for funding
its operations - including fortification needs - with its budget, according to
priorities it sets. The allocation of the budget is also decided by the internal
priorities of the Defence Ministry and the Home Front Command."

The Defence Ministry for its part asserted that providing funds for fortifying
cars of West Bank residents was not its responsibility: "Until 2002 the
fortification of cars against rock throwing was carried out by the
Transportation Ministry, with the Defence Ministry footing half of the costs and
the Finance Ministry providing the other half. Since 2002 the fortification has
been carried out by the Defence Ministry but the source of the funding remained
as it was. In 2008, the Finance Ministry announced that it no longer intended to
participate in the funding."

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 19 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

Yemeni parliament, other groups condemn terror attack on school

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by Yemeni news agency Saba website

SANA'A, March 19 (Saba)-The Parliament, Shura Council, Yemeni Religious Scholars
Association (YRSA) and Yemeni Journalists Syndicate (YJS) condemned on Wednesday
[19 March] a terror attack which targeted a girl school in Sana'a city.

In their statements, they denounced strongly the attack, calling for sending
people who are behind the attack to justice to receive their just punishment.

13 girls and three soldiers were wounded in the attack.

[ SABA also carried a related report at 1856 gmt as follows:

SANA'A, March 19 (Saba)-Minister of Human Rights Huda al-Ban condemned on
Wednesday the criminal act that targeted July 7 Girls School in Sana'a city.

In a statement to Saba, al-Ban said that the terror act was a psychological and
civilization shock for Yemeni people.

The act targeted all good and educational principles of the Yemeni people who
condemn this coward action that disagrees with humanitarian and religious
principles, she said.

She called on Yemenis to cooperate with security bodies to arrest the people who
are behind this act to send them to justice.

The minister also called on organizations of human rights and civil society
organizations to support efforts of the state to face terror acts which unrest
security and damage reputation of the country.]

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 1902 gmt 19 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           March 19, 2008, Wednesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Machine-gun attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 212 words


A MACHINE-gun wielding man who sprayed another man with bullets in Birmingham's
main entertainment area has been given an indefinite prison sentence.

The 34-year old victim, who was shot three times, probably only survived because
the gun jammed.

Nathan Gordon, 29, from West Ealing, London, had denied but was found guilty of
attempted murder and possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life.

Judge Frank Chapman jailed him for public protection ruling he must serve at
least 15 years before he can be considered for parole.

O'Neil Wareham, 25, from Wembley and Emmanuel Kanu, 29, from Cricklewood, both
London, were acquitted of the same charges.

Timothy Raggatt QC, prosecuting at the City's Crown Court, said the reasons for
the shooting of Mark Gibbs, from Birmingham, in the early hours of November 5,
2006, remained "shrouded in mystery." and it was possible he was the victim of
mistaken identity.

He said Mr Gibbs had been talking to someone outside the Bella Pizza restaurant
in Broad Street when they were approached by Gordon who was acting aggressively.

Gordon went back to a car parked nearby and returned with the machine gun Mr
Gibbs tried to run into the restaurant and Gordon fired five bullets. He
returned to the vehicle which sped off and later crashed.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           March 19, 2008, Wednesday
                                  FIN Edition

Girl, 8 in knife attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 78 words


AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD girl was today recovering after she was attacked by a
knife-wielding flasher while she played with friends.

The attacker exposed himself and grabbed the girl, who was playing in the street
with a five-year-old boy.

A horrified mum, who lives nearby, chased the armed man and raised the alarm.

The young victim is said to be traumatised by the terrifying ordeal which
happened in Stockton.

Cleveland Police are investigating the incident.

Full story: Page 2

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           March 19, 2008, Wednesday
                                  FIN Edition

ATTACK TERROR;
Knife-wielding flasher grabbed girl, 8, in street

BYLINE: SAM BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words


AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD girl was recovering today after she was attacked by a
knife-wielding flasher as she played with friends.

A horrified mum who lives nearby chased the armed man after her 14-year-old
daughter raised the alarm.

The victim's mum said her daughter had been traumatised by the ordeal, which
happened on the corner of Dean Street and Tarring Street, Stockton.

She said the man exposed himself and grabbed her daughter, who was playing in
the street with a five-year-old boy at around 5.30pm on Monday.

The boy tried to stop the assault by restraining the man, but was thrown to the
ground.

The children later told how the man had a knife at the time of the incident. The
mum, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said: "The man grabbed my daughter
by the hand.

"Then he grabbed hold of the little boy's hair and flung him to the ground.

"I'm absolutely disgusted. What intentions did he have with her, a defenceless
kid? You just don't think it will happen to your own."

She added her daughter was uninjured, but left seriously shaken and struggled to
sleep at night.

"She's had a very bad night. She's been screaming in her sleep. I won't let her
out now. Not when it's on your doorstep."

Another mum, who lives near the scene, bolted after the attacker and led police
to him by giving directions on her mobile phone.

"I'd sent my kids to the shop. My daughter came running back in and told me,"
said the woman, who asked not to be identified.

"I shot out of the house. We didn't know he had the knife on him at that time.

"I didn't think about it. I just worried one of the kids was in bother. I didn't
even think about what I was going to do if I caught him. I chased him while I
was on the phone to the police.

"I'm just glad my daughter had the sense to run and get me. It's lucky she was
going to the shop at that time."

She added: "I feel sick and disgusted. It was broad daylight. There's lots of
kids around here.

They play out every night."

The victim's mum also praised the quick thinking of the 14-year-old: "If it
wasn't for her, who'd have known what would have gone on. It could have been a
lot worse," she said.

A Cleveland Police spokeswoman said that the incident was being investigated as
an indecent exposure. She said: "A 38-year-old man was arrested in connection
with the incident and remains in custody in Middlesbrough where he is helping
police with their inquiries."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK SCENE: Dean Street, at the junction of Tarring Street, in
Stockton, where an eight-year-old girl was indecently attacked by a man armed
with a knife yesterday. The area is shown in the map, below Picture by MICHELLE
MADDISON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

Vietnam's UN envoy condemns terrorist attacks "in whatever form"

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report in English by Vietnamese news agency VNA website

[Unattributed article from the "Politics" page: "Vietnam condemns terrorist
attacks in every form"]

New York (VNA) -A Vietnamese diplomat reiterated that the country has been
consistent in its condemnation of terrorist attacks in whatever form, for
whatever motive and by whomsoever, including those committed with the pretext of
defending democracy and human rights.

The statement was made by Ambassador Le Luong Minh, Permanent Representative to
the UN Security Council, at the council's open debate on "Threats to
International Peace and Security Caused by Terrorist Acts" in New York on March
19.

In his speech, Minh stressed that international terrorism continues to be one of
the most serious threats to international peace and security. "It constitutes a
flagrant violation of international law, endangers the territorial integrity and
stability of States, causes severe destruction to the infrastructure of many
countries and horrifying losses and injuries to innocent people," he said.

He upheld the view that the international fight against terrorism must be
strengthened in a comprehensive and balanced manner, in compliance with
international law, particularly the principles of respect for national
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs
of states.

According to Minh, phenomena such as political, economic and social
inequalities, double standards, selectivity as well as the use of force in
international relations, all creating conditions conducive to the spread of
terrorism need be addressed.

He also said root causes of international terrorism such as absolute poverty,
political and social injustice should be excluded.

The Vietnamese representative highlighted the leading role of the UN in the
fight against international terrorism, especially in promoting international
cooperation and complementing member states' efforts.

Regarding anti-terrorism resolutions adopted by the Security Council, including
the establishment of institutions to assist the member states' implementation of
these obligations, Minh affirmed Vietnam 's support to the Counter-Terrorism
Committee Executive Directorate (CTED) in its dialogues with member states to
identify ways of improving their counter-terrorism capacity and its efforts to
provide them with technical assistance.

In August last year, CTED undertook a visit to Vietnam where it had fruitful
discussions with Vietnamese counter-terrorism agencies. The Vietnamese diplomat
affirmed the country's willingness to continue cooperation with CTED.

Source: VNA news agency website, Hanoi, in English 20 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                 March 20, 2008

No money to live on after knife attack terror

LENGTH: 318 words


A KIRKHAM man who is too frightened to leave his own home after a terrifying
knife attack says he and his family have been left with no cash to live on.

Darren Clarke thought he "was going to die" when he was stabbed in the chest
with a carving life during a street brawl.

A sick note from his doctor states Mr Clarke cannot work because he suffers from
chronic anxiety.

But the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has now cut off his benefits.

Mr Clarke, 35, who lives with wife Debbie, 28, and children Abbie, 11, Beckie,
seven, Clarissa, four, and Darren, three, says he is "desperate for money".

He said: "It's unbelievable. I had explained I couldn't leave the house.

"We've now had a couple of months without any money. We've got all the bills to
pay. They've just left us."

The father-of-four still fears for his life following the attack in St Annes in
January 2004, which left him with a seven by two centimetre wound to his chest.

Patrick McLaughlan, 49 at the time of the incident, was found guilty of
inflicting grievous bodily harm and was sentenced to two and half years in
prison in June 2004. He served 10 months in jail.

Mr Clarke, of Hastings Road, said: "I thought I was going to die.

"I'm scared he's going to come running from somewhere. It's a nightmare."

Mr Clarke has now lodged an appeal for his benefits to begin again.

A DWP spokesman said: "As Mr Clarke failed to attend medicals, it was decided he
was no longer entitled to claim Income Support.

"Customers can request a home visit for their medical, but they must provide
supporting evidence from their own doctor."

Mr Clarke said: "They didn't tell me about home visits.

"I sent the forms and didn't hear anything for two weeks. I rang up and they
told me I wasn't entitled to Income Support .

" I've been ill-advised and they've just left us without any money."

A date for the Tribunal Service to look into Mr Clarke's case has not yet been
set.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

TGI staff in knife attack terror

BYLINE: Terry Morgan

SECTION: BURY NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


A WAITRESS had a knife held to her throat during a terrifying armed raid at a
Prestwich restaurant.

Several customers were also threatened by three masked men - and told to put
their hands in the air - after they burst into TGI Friday's armed with a
foot-long knife and a handgun.

However, a Security Plus guard unwittingly foiled the robbery when he walked
into the reception. Unaware he had arrived to collect money, the masked men
panicked and fled empty-handed.

The attempted raid happened at 12.20pm last Thursday. None of the waiting staff
and customers caught up in the raid were injured but they were left very shaken.

According to detectives, customers were ordered to put their hands in the air by
the gunman while the man with the knife held it to the throat of the waitress
and demanded to know where the office was.

However, when the security guard came into the reception the robber with the gun
became anxious, ran to get his accomplices, and all three men ran out of the
restaurant.

They were seen to run across the car park, through a gap in the hedge and across
Bury New Road.

Bosses at the restaurant have now stepped up security to protect staff and
customers from criminals.

Mr Darrell Wade, marketing director for the company, said: "This is an
unfortunate incident and thankfully no-one was hurt.

"Our priority is always the safety and welfare of our guests and staff, and as
such we have increased security measures across our stores to help safeguard
against further incidents.

"We've offered a counselling service to everyone affected to make sure that they
are supported throughout this and we are fully cooperating with police as part
of their ongoing investigations.

seriously and active steps are underway in reviewing all of our security
procedures."

Police have launched an appeal for witnesses in their efforts to track down the
gang.

Detective Constable Graham Whittaker said: "The victims in this incident have
understandably been really shaken by this. It was the middle of the day and they
were just going about their business when these men burst in. TGI Fridays is
providing counselling to those involved.

"We are absolutely determined to catch these robbers, but need the public's help
to do so. If anyone saw anything that they think could help our investigation
please call us immediately."

The knife-wielding robber was white, aged about 21, 5ft 8ins tall, slim, and had
very pale skin. He was wearing a grey hooded top and was carrying a 40cm long
knife. The man with the black handgun and the third unarmed raider were
described as white males, also aged about 21 and of similar height and build to
the knifeman. They all wore balaclava face masks.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police on (0161) 856 8133 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

TGI staff in knife attack terror

BYLINE: Terry Morgan

SECTION: PRESTWICH HEADLINES (PRESTWICH NEWS)

LENGTH: 466 words


A WAITRESS had a knife held to her throat during a terrifying armed raid at a
Prestwich restaurant.

Several customers were also threatened by three masked men - and told to put
their hands in the air - after they burst into TGI Friday's armed with a
foot-long knife and a handgun.

However, a Security Plus guard unwittingly foiled the robbery when he walked
into the reception. Unaware he had arrived to collect money, the masked men
panicked and fled empty-handed.

The attempted raid happened at 12.20pm last Thursday. None of the waiting staff
and customers caught up in the raid were injured but they were left very shaken.

According to detectives, customers were ordered to put their hands in the air by
the gunman while the man with the knife held it to the throat of the waitress
and demanded to know where the office was.

However, when the security guard came into the reception the robber with the gun
became anxious, ran to get his accomplices, and all three men ran out of the
restaurant.

They were seen to run across the car park, through a gap in the hedge and across
Bury New Road.

Bosses at the restaurant have now stepped up security to protect staff and
customers from criminals.

Mr Darrell Wade, marketing director for the company, said: "This is an
unfortunate incident and thankfully no-one was hurt.

"Our priority is always the safety and welfare of our guests and staff, and as
such we have increased security measures across our stores to help safeguard
against further incidents.

"We've offered a counselling service to everyone affected to make sure that they
are supported throughout this and we are fully cooperating with police as part
of their ongoing investigations.

seriously and active steps are underway in reviewing all of our security
procedures."

Police have launched an appeal for witnesses in their efforts to track down the
gang.

Detective Constable Graham Whittaker said: "The victims in this incident have
understandably been really shaken by this. It was the middle of the day and they
were just going about their business when these men burst in. TGI Fridays is
providing counselling to those involved.

"We are absolutely determined to catch these robbers, but need the public's help
to do so. If anyone saw anything that they think could help our investigation
please call us immediately."

The knife-wielding robber was white, aged about 21, 5ft 8ins tall, slim, and had
very pale skin. He was wearing a grey hooded top and was carrying a 40cm long
knife. The man with the black handgun and the third unarmed raider were
described as white males, also aged about 21 and of similar height and build to
the knifeman. They all wore balaclava face masks.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police on (0161) 856 8133 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             March 21, 2008 Friday

Dealing with terror attack

BYLINE: Andy Philip

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Crime Prevention; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 179 words


BUSINESS managers were shown a simulated suicide attack as part of a
counter-terrorism drive at Aberdeen Airport.

More than 60 managers and staff, who operate near the airport at Dyce, took part
in the police event at the nearby Thistle Hotel.

Police with first-hand experience of the Glasgow Airport attack last year were
at the venue to offer guidance.

The seminar was aimed at devising strategies to prevent, handle and recover from
a suicide attack.

Senior representatives from Grampian Emergency Planning Unit and Strathclyde
Police took part in the multi-media presentation.

The seminar, dubbed Project Argus, also involved the National Counter-terrorism
Security Office.

Jim Stephen, assistant chief constable of Grampian Police, said: "The project is
a key part of our overall aim to reduce the risk from terrorism so that people
can go about their daily lives freely and with confidence

"Events in Glasgow last year have illustrated we must not be complacent.
Preparing minimises the impact of terrorist activities by allowing a return to
normality as quickly as possible."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 21, 2008 Friday

Israeli boy wounded in West Bank "terror attack"

LENGTH: 240 words


Jerusalem The Jerusalem Post, a right-of-centre English-language independent
daily, reports at 0402 gmt: "IDF troops arrested eight terror suspects in the
West Bank Thursday [20 March] overnight. The suspects were taken for
interrogation."

Tel Aviv Ha'aretz in English, left-of-centre, independent daily of record,
reports at 0614 gmt: "A 13-year-old boy was wounded Thursday night in a terror
attack targeting the car in which he was travelling near Hebron. The boy
suffered light to moderate wounds and was evacuated to Hadassah University
Hospital in Jerusalem for medical care. Hospital officials reported that the boy
sustained wounds in the leg, apparently from shrapnel, and was being treated in
the trauma unit.

"Israel Defence Forces troops arrived at the scene and began combing the area in
search of the assailants. The IDF believes that the explosion was caused by an
explosive device at the side of the road."

Ynetnews in English, centrist news site operated by Yediot Media Group, reports
at 1041 gmt: "Palestinian terror groups launched three Qassam rockets from
northern Gaza towards Israel on Friday afternoon, as residents of southern
Israel celebrated the Purim holiday in street shows and fairs.

"The rockets landed near the security fence along the border between Gaza and
Israel, no injuries were reported and no damage was caused. One of the rockets
reportedly landed on the Palestinian side of the fence."

Sources: as listed

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 21, 2008 Friday

Bosnian police arrest five Wahhabis suspected of plotting terrorist attack

LENGTH: 514 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 21 March

[Report by G. Leko: "Terrorist Attack on B-H Foiled"]

Sarajevo - Members of the Federation MUP [Ministry of Internal Affairs] arrested
in Sarajevo and Bugojno yesterday a group of five Wahhabis who were planning to
carry out a terrorist attack in our country. That has been confirmed for us by
sources close to the police. Early yesterday morning, members of the Federal MUP
Special Police raided apartment buildings in Sarajevo, where they arrested three
individuals, as well as some apartment buildings and auxiliary buildings in
Bugojno, where they arrested two individuals.

A Terrorist Attack Was Planned

A considerable quantity of weapons, explosives, antitank mines, and ammunition
were seized in the raids, as were timing mechanisms that are used in the
production of explosive devices.

The action was carried out after long-term surveillance of the suspect
individuals, who were already known to the police. "The Federal MUP received
reports more than a month ago about this group of Wahhabis, who were planning to
carry out a terrorist attack in multiple locations in Bosnia and Hercegovina.
Checking of the information and the individuals commenced immediately after
that, as did the constant surveillance of their movements," our source from the
police told us. After the gathering of information and confirmation of the
connection between the individuals in Sarajevo and Bugojno, the action was
carried out, and the arrests ensued. Yesterday morning, the suspects were
transported to official premises of the Federal MUP, where investigators began
criminal processing. No official information could be obtained from the police
during the course of the day. Robert Cvrtak, spokesman of the Federal Police
Administration, said in a statement for Dnevni List that the police had worked
in several locations.

Police with Rifles

"Certain activities were carried out in several locations, and what I can state
for the time being is the fact that a total of five individuals have been
arrested," spokesman Cvrtak told us. Dnevni List has learned that a wide-ranging
action was involved. Several eyewitnesses confirmed to us that there were a
large number of police on Jukic Street yesterday, where one of the raids was
presumably conducted. It has likewise been confirmed that, during the action,
members of the police were on full alert and carrying rifles. Seized from the
suspects, in addition to weapons, were some other things that will be very
helpful in shedding light on this incident.

Criminal Processing

As this issue of Dnevni List was going to print, the five suspect Wahhabis were
facing criminal processing that could go on all of today. After that, the
suspects will be turned over to the jurisdiction of the Office of the State
Prosecutor for further proceedings. In the event that police suspicions turn out
to be justified, it is expected that the prosecutor on duty will order pre-trial
detention for the suspect individuals.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 21 Mar 08 pp 2,3

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday

Bosnian "terror" group planned attack on churches - daily

LENGTH: 389 words


Text of report in English by Croatian state news agency HINA

SARAJEVO, March 22 (Hina) - Five people who were arrested in Sarajevo and Bihac
this week on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities are radical
Islamists who had planned to attack Catholic churches in Bosnia, the local media
reported on Saturday [22 March]

Quoting unnamed sources close to the investigation, the Banja Luka-based
Nezavisne novine daily said that the arrested terrorists had planned to target
Catholic churches.

Acting on an order from the State Court of Bosnia and Hercegovina, the police
forces of the country's Croat-Muslim entity on Thursday [20 March] arrested five
people after raiding six apartments in Sarajevo and Bugojno, in which they
discovered a large quantity of weapons and military equipment.

One of the arrested persons was released on Friday [21 March], while the other
four were remanded in custody for a month.

The police did not state their identities, but only their initials, however, the
media reported that the arrested men were Rijad Rustempasic, Muhamed Meco,
Abdulah Handzic and Edis Velic from Sarajevo, and Muhamed Ficer from Bugojno,
the only one to have been released from custody.

Dnevni avaz daily from Sarajevo said the police believed that the group was
headed by Rustempasic in whose house the largest amount of weapons and military
equipment was discovered.

So far, it has been discovered that Rustempasic was in charge of making
explosive devices.

Rustempasic already has a police record and was arrested on a previous occasion
by international peace forces in the country on suspicion of being connected to
terrorist groups. During the war in Bosnia, he was a member of the El Mujahid
unit which was a part of the Bosnian army and consisted mostly of volunteers
from Islamic countries.

The group became suspicious after intelligence agents obtained evidence that its
members were in contact with Mirsad Bektasevic, who was sentenced to eight years
in prison last year by the State Court of Bosnia and Hercegovina for conspiring
to carry out terrorist attacks in Bosnia.

Dnevni avaz claims that there will be more arrests because the police have
information on other persons who were in contact with the suspects. Some of
those persons live abroad.

Source: HINA news agency, Zagreb, in English 1332 gmt 22 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday

Israel to equip passenger aircraft with anti-missile flares to counter terror
attacks

BYLINE: Rory McCarthy, Jerusalem

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 377 words


Israel is to begin fitting some of its passenger aircraft with flares to counter
potential missile attacks, defence officials said.

The missile protection system was first proposed in 2002, but was delayed by
disagreements over funding between government ministries, reports said.

Within weeks a system of flares will be installed on some aircraft, particularly
those flying to countries regarded as more dangerous, including in Africa and
Asia. The system is similar to one installed on military aircraft. For
protection against heat-seeking missiles flares can be dropped to draw off the
weapon.

The proposal emerged after two missiles were aimed at an Israeli passenger plane
just after take-off in Mombasa, Kenya. The rockets narrowly missed the Boeing
757 jet but the attack seemed linked to a suicide bombing soon afterwards at a
Mombasa hotel where Israeli tourists were staying - 13 Kenyans and Israelis were
killed.

The Israeli newspaper Ma'ariv said yesterday that the project had been final
ised now because of fears that the assassination of the Hizbullah militant Imad
Mughniyah in Damascus last month might encourage revenge attacks against Israeli
targets. A high state of security alert has been declared in Israel this
weekend, which marks 40 days since the killing of Mughniyah, a time when
Israel's security service believes attacks might come.

Ma'ariv said the flare system would be used for around two years and then
replaced by an "optical" system, which it said was more advanced and based on a
focused beam of light. However, the paper also said that some countries,
including the US, were not expected to allow planes equipped with flares to
land.

Last year it was reported in Israel that a new anti-hijacking identification sys
tem would be installed at Israeli airports to alert authorities more rapidly to
any incoming hijacked aircraft. The Security Code System would use a credit
card-sized keypad and other devices through which pilots could authenticate
their identity.

In a separate development, the Israeli air force said yesterday it was grounding
training flights in the US-built F-16I fighter aircraft. It said that
formaldehyde residues, which it said were carcinogenic, had been found leaking
into the cockpit.

guardian.co.uk/israel >=

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                 March 22, 2008

Man relives dog attack terror

LENGTH: 331  words


These are the horrific wounds a savage Japanese fighting dog inflicted on a man
and his family pet.

Geoff Garrett, of Seaham, was walking his black Labrador, Mac, on Tuesday near
the allotments in Eastlea at about 6.15pm when a Japanese Akita carried out the
vicious attack.

He fears that unless the dog is taken off the streets, it will strike again.

Mr Garrett, 44, said: "I dread to think what would happen if it attacked a
child, but I think we all know what the result would be.

"I've never seen a dog attack in a way like this before and I'm extremely
concerned that if it's not caught this will happen again.

"My major concern is that the dog is still out there."

Mr Garrett, who is an ICT specialist for BT, said the dog ran at him from about
150 yards before launching itself at three-year-old Mac, taking him to the
ground.

"I was trying to get it off my dog because he was yelping, then it turned on me
and I felt it crunch into my groin and felt its jaws closing," he said.

Mr Garrett was treated that night at Sunderland Royal Hospital where he received
stitches to the puncture wounds at the top of his thigh and the top of his
groin. He also received a tetanus jab and antibiotics.

Mac was taken to the vet's where he had three major flesh wounds stapled
together. He has also been given painkillers and a course of antibiotics.

Mr Garrett said: "Mac keeps whimpering and he's obviously in pain.

"It's so surreal. I just couldn't believe it was happening. We need to get this
dog off the streets now."

Mr Garrett reported the attack to police who are appealing for information on
the Akita's owner.

He is described as being in his 30s and was wearing a three-quarter-length
camouflage coat.

Inspector Vince Addison, of Seaham Police, said: "Inquiries are in hand to trace
the owner of the Akita dog.

"If there is anyone who saw the incident or thinks they know who owns the
animal, we would be interested in hearing from them."

Anyone with information can contact police on 08456 060365.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                 March 22, 2008

Man relives dog attack terror

LENGTH: 331  words


These are the horrific wounds a savage Japanese fighting dog inflicted on a man
and his family pet.

Geoff Garrett, of Seaham, was walking his black Labrador, Mac, on Tuesday near
the allotments in Eastlea at about 6.15pm when a Japanese Akita carried out the
vicious attack.

He fears that unless the dog is taken off the streets, it will strike again.

Mr Garrett, 44, said: "I dread to think what would happen if it attacked a
child, but I think we all know what the result would be.

"I've never seen a dog attack in a way like this before and I'm extremely
concerned that if it's not caught this will happen again.

"My major concern is that the dog is still out there."

Mr Garrett, who is an ICT specialist for BT, said the dog ran at him from about
150 yards before launching itself at three-year-old Mac, taking him to the
ground.

"I was trying to get it off my dog because he was yelping, then it turned on me
and I felt it crunch into my groin and felt its jaws closing," he said.

Mr Garrett was treated that night at Sunderland Royal Hospital where he received
stitches to the puncture wounds at the top of his thigh and the top of his
groin. He also received a tetanus jab and antibiotics.

Mac was taken to the vet's where he had three major flesh wounds stapled
together. He has also been given painkillers and a course of antibiotics.

Mr Garrett said: "Mac keeps whimpering and he's obviously in pain.

"It's so surreal. I just couldn't believe it was happening. We need to get this
dog off the streets now."

Mr Garrett reported the attack to police who are appealing for information on
the Akita's owner.

He is described as being in his 30s and was wearing a three-quarter-length
camouflage coat.

Inspector Vince Addison, of Seaham Police, said: "Inquiries are in hand to trace
the owner of the Akita dog.

"If there is anyone who saw the incident or thinks they know who owns the
animal, we would be interested in hearing from them."

Anyone with information can contact police on 08456 060365.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2008 Sunday

Separatists say blast in South Ossetia a Georgian "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 188 words


Text of report by pro-separatist South Ossetian Press and Information Committee
website on 23 March

A terrorist attack took place today in the South Ossetian village of Okona, with
a remotely-controlled improvised mine being exploded. A Res agency correspondent
was informed about this by the press service of the interior ministry of the
republic of South Ossetia.

"There is precise information that two people received severe wounds. These are
JPKF [Joint Peacekeeping Force] serviceman Koliyev, whose legs were blown off,
and a local civilian with the surname Doguzov, who sustained shrapnel wounds to
the torso and upper part of the face. South Ossetian interior ministry personnel
and a JPKF monitoring group are working in the area of the explosion.
Representatives of the OSCE mission have yet to leave for the scene, though they
have been informed about the blast," an interior ministry representative said,
adding that the South Ossetian side views the incident as yet another
manifestation of Georgia's policy of state terrorism.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 23 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 24, 2008 Monday

Terrorist attack prevented in Russia's Ingushetia - website

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by Ingushetiya.ru website, critical of the Republic of Ingushetia
authorities, on 24 March

24 March: As has already been reported, an explosive device was found at a
marketplace in Ordzhonikidzevskaya village yesterday. Some unknown details of
the incident have become known.

Thus, the temporary headquarters of troops reported that a terrorist act had
been prevented.

"A local resident from Ordzhonikidzevskaya village told police officers on the
morning of Sunday [23 March] that there was a suspicious package at the
marketplace. The specialists who arrived at the scene of the incident revealed
an improvised explosive device in the package, which consisted of 120-mm mortar
shell with a clockwork and a detonating fuse. There were wires [in it] too," the
headquarters said.

A representative of the Ingush Interior Ministry said that the power of the
improvised explosive device was equivalent to at least 2 or 3 kg of TNT. The
device found was defused.

Search is under way for those who plotted the explosion at the market in the
village are being searched.

Source: Ingushetiya.ru website, in Russian 24 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

Number of terrorist attacks in Russia halve every year - security service head

LENGTH: 364 words


The Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) manages to reduce the number of
terrorist attacks in Russia by more than half each year, director of the FSB
Nikolay Patrushev said at an international meeting of the heads of special
services and law-enforcement agencies, which is taking place in Khanty-Mansiysk.
This information was reported by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax on
27 March.

"We have managed to reduce the level of terrorist threat: the number of
terrorist attacks decreases by more than half each year," Interfax quoted
Patrushev as saying.

In particular, Patrushev added, there were 257 terrorists attacks in 2005, 112
in 2006, 48 in 2007 and none so far in 2008. This, in Patrushev's opinion, is
the result of the targeted effort by the state anti-terrorism agencies led by
the National Antiterrorist Committee, Interfax reported.

He also said that terrorist attacks were most often aimed at potentially
dangerous and "critically important economic, transport and infrastructure
facilities".

Patrushev added that such attacks result in numerous human losses, and
significant economic and environmental damage.

At the same time, Patrushev said more international cooperation was needed, not
only to prevent terrorist attacks, but also to uncover and destroy the channels
of financing for international terrorism, Interfax reported.

On a different note, religious extremism and national separatism might threaten
the territorial integrity of a number of countries worldwide, ITAR-TASS news
agency quoted Patrushev as saying in an earlier report on the same day.

"At present the terrorist threat in the world is increasing, and we can forecast
a further rise in its scope. Significant factors which contribute to this rise
are religious extremism and national separatism, which present a threat to the
current system of international security and might become a detonator for a
whole series of changes in territorial borders in regions of the world that have
a complicated ethnic and religious situation," ITAR-TASS quoted Patrushev as
saying.

Sources:

Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0720 gmt 27 Mar 08;ITAR-TASS news
agency, Moscow, in Russian 0708 gmt 27 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

One killed in "terrorist attack" in Georgia's breakaway region

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Tskhinvali, 27 March: The South Ossetian authorities say that a terrorist attack
in Tskhinvali targeted the prosecutor-general of the republic, and that official
Tbilisi was thought to be behind it.

"Law-enforcement agencies of South Ossetia are looking into the theory according
to which official Tbilisi is behind the terrorist attack against Taymuraz
Khugayev, the republic's prosecutor-general. The South Ossetian
prosecutor-general was on the list of leaders of our republic who were to be
eliminated. The existence of this list had previously been announced by
representatives of the Georgian power-wielding agencies," Irina Gagloyeva,
official spokeswoman for the South Ossetian government, told Interfax on
Thursday [27 March].

According to the information she has, the explosion of the prosecutor-general's
car "seriously injured the driver and killed a young woman". The driver had
driven Khugayev home and he already left the car when the explosion took place,
Gagloyeva said.

The prosecutor-general was not injured.

Gagloyeva stressed that "this is not the first attempt to commit an act of
terrorism against South Ossetia's prosecutor-general".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1835 gmt 27 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 28, 2008, Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Letter: You say - Terror attacks

BYLINE: Edward Denmark

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 134 words


DOES Alex McFadden (ECHO letters, March 14) really expect that Louise Ellman
would sit down and debate the constant attacks by Hamas terrorists against
Israel?

What would be the point? Mr McFadden says: "The word terrorist is used more
often than not as a form of abuse and to cloud the issues."

I can assure you Mr McFadden when the Hamas terrorists fire their rockets into
the homes of innocent people including women and children the only clouding is
one of death and injury.

So what do you suggest Mr McFadden, that Israel should not respond because
perhaps these terrorists may one day become respected statesmen?

I suggest Mr McFadden goes and spends some time in Israel, then hopefully the
issue of why Israel responds to these terrorist attacks might become crystal
clear.

Edward Denmark, address supplied

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             March 28, 2008, Friday
                                 First Edition

Community mixing is the way to prevent further terror attacks'

BYLINE: Martin Shipton Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 643 words


THE way to ensure 7/7-style terrorist attacks do not happen again is to
encourage more community mixing, according to Britain's first Muslim minister.

Shahid Malik, a rising Labour star who became an International Development
Minister last year despite only being elected MP for Dewsbury in 2005, was
campaigning in Cardiff ahead of May's council elections.

Speaking to the Western Mail at a mosque in the multiracial River side part of
the city, he said, "There is a chance we could have further terrorist attacks in
this country.

"Unless we do much more mixing, unless we create true understanding, some of the
reaction will be even more negative than we saw in 7/7.

"So that's the challenge to society - to reach a point where people don't
blanket-judge others based on the actions of one or two individuals, when
through the tough times we are able not to turn in on each other, but to unite
against the extreme elements.

"My own constituency is extremely segregated. You've got spatial segregation,
which means that people don't live together, but on top of that you've got
social segregation, where not only do they not live together, but they never
ever cross paths.

"That becomes extremely dangerous, and it's in those areas where the BNP and
groups operating in the name of religion can exploit ignorance, because no
mixing takes place."

Mr Malik said there were lots of steps that could be taken, but a lot rested on
individuals. "You can twin schools, for example, you can have joint faith
events. But it's not about governments and public bodies doing everything.

"I think trade unions have got a role in the workplace, I think neighbours have
got a role. If you've got a neighbour who is different, it only takes a second
to knock on the door and say who you are and ask if they need anything. Be
neighborly.

"If you're walking in the town centre and you see someone who's different, give
a quick catch of the eye and a smile. It's all those little things that
cumulatively change attitudes in society."

Asked about the shock many people felt on seeing the video of 7/7 bomber
Mohammed Saddique Khan - from Mr Malik's constituency - speaking with a strong
Yorkshire accent, underlining that he was not someone from out side British
society, Mr Malik said, "It was very damaging.

It would have been so much more helpful in many ways if he had been an outsider.

"I could not have believed before 7/7 that someone who was born and brought up
here - and there were four of them - could do something like that.

"You could tell what he was doing. He was trying to use legitimate causes to
legitimise something that was vile and abhorrent. What we've got to do is be
clever enough to segregate those two.

"The truth is that those people responsible for 7/7 no more represent Islam than
David Copeland, who blew up Brixton, Soho and Brick Lane, killing three and
maiming eight, represents white opinion. These people represent evil.

"I said this downstairs - and everyone in the room was nodding their heads. I
said, as a Muslim there is no better place in the world to live than the UK.

" I'll tell you why. After 7/7 most people believed that there would be a
backlash against Muslims. People would die, mosques would burn, women would be
beaten. But actually it didn't come to pass.

"And yet, imagine for a second - and this is the challenging bit - that those
bombings had taken place in Pakistan, and the bombers were Christian, and they'd
done so in the name of Christianity. By now almost four years later, how many
Christians do you think might be dead? 500? 1,000? We don't know. But here,
after 7/7, the way this country reacted was phenomenal.

"So it's important that we protect what we have in Britain, and one of the ways
we do that is by taking on those who tryto use extremism to exert change in our
society. People need the confidence to do that a bit more."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN Shahid Malik, Minister for International Development, and MP
for Dewsbury, visiting Grangetown in Cardiff yesterday ahead of May's local
council elections Picture: Huw Evans Picture Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday

German official says risk of terrorist attack in Europe higher than in USA

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report by independent German news agency ddp on 29 March

Passau: According to Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrman (Christian
Social Union), the threat of a terrorist attack in Germany is very specific. "US
security authorities believe that the risk of an Islamist attack within the next
few months is higher in Europe than in the United States." Herrmann, who is in
the USA at the moment, told Passauer Neue Presse (29 March edition). "Yes,
Al-Qa'idah and other Islamist terrorist organizations want to carry out attacks
in Europe. Germany is definitely within the Islamist terrorists' field of
vision. There are no specific findings concerning Germany or Bavaria but it is
going to happen somewhere in Europe."

Herrmann confirmed reports on Islamists who explored the Allianz Arena in Munich
in order to carry out a terrorist attack during the World Football Championship
in 2006. "Yes, the Allianz Arena in Munich was explored by an Islamist with
Ansar al-Islam contacts. However, we have not been able to gain specific
insights into any attack plan. Meanwhile, the person has left Germany."

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0346 gmt 29 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday

Israeli forces attacks "terrorist squad" in Gaza Strip

LENGTH: 102 words


Voice of Israel radio reported at 1400 gmt on 29 March: "A Qassam rocket was
fired at the western Negev this afternoon. The rocket exploded in an open area
between two communities. There were no injuries and no damage was caused."

The radio reported at 1900 gmt: "An IDF force attacked a terrorist squad in the
northern part of the Gaza Strip. Palestinian sources report that two of the
squad members sustained moderate wounds, and two others were very slightly
wounded. This is reported by our correspondents Gal Berger and Karmela Menashe."

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1400 and 1900 gmt 29 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Prisoner release attacked;
WAR ON TERROR: Tory blast

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 183 words


THE decision to award early release to a man jailed for a terrorist offence was
attacked by the Conservatives last night.

The Ministry of Justice confirmed Yassin Nassari - who was arrested at Luton
Airport with blueprints for a rocket in his luggage - was freed 17 days early.

He walked from a maximum security jail seven months after a three and a half
year sentence was handed down, but had also spent more than a year on remand
before conviction.

The maximum-security prisoner, who is 28 and from Ealing, west London, benefited
from emergency measures to cope with the overcrowding crisis.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said: "The Government's perverse approach to
security defies common sense.

"On the one hand, they are trying to pass a new law extending the period for
holding innocent people - convicted of nothing - when we already have the
longest period of pre-charge detention in the free world.

"On the other hand, they are releasing a terrorist we have managed to bring to
justice, a dangerous man convicted in our courts for researching how to deploy
military weapons in this country."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday

Pakistan agency-sponsored groups "carrying out" India terror attacks - ministry

LENGTH: 338 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "ISI-sponsored terror outfits carrying out
attacks in India: Home Ministry" Published by privately owned-Indian television
zeenews website on 30 March

New Delhi, 30 March: The presence of terror camps in Pakistan continues to haunt
the security establishment in India, which still feels that ISI-sponsored
outfits like JeM [Jaish-e Muhammad], LeT [Lashkar-e Taiyiba] and Al Badr are
responsible for carrying out terrorist attacks in different parts of the
country.

"Terrorist infrastructure in Pakistan and PoK [Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir,
Pakistan administered Kashmir] remains largely intact and continues to be used
by Pak-based and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)-sponsored outfits like
Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Toiba and al-Badr for carrying out acts of terror in
different parts of the country," the Union Home Ministry said.

Noting that there was no change in the attitude of the ISI in training terror
groups like the LeT and JeM, National Security Advisor M K Narayanan recently
said one of the greatest dangers India faced was terror camps being run on the
Pakistan-Afghanistan border by the al-Qaeda [Al-Qa'ida] and the Taliban.

He said Pakistan continued to acquire missiles and other weapons and its
military strategy remains India-centric.

According to the latest Status Paper on Internal Security brought out by the
MHA, these outfits are "well organised, interlinked, and have the latest
hardware and communication equipment".

The "current strategy" of terrorist groups is to recruit and train local modules
and activate them when required, maintain flow of finances to sustain terror
network and supply hardware through land and sea routes.

Their strategy is also to target vital installations, economic infrastructure,
VIPs and political leaders, attack soft targets like market places, mass transit
system, places of worship and congregations, and also provoke communal tension
to create a wedge between communities.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 30 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday

Ethiopian police seize eight suspects of "terror attacks"

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 30 March: Eight of the perpetrators of terror attacks the
self-proclaimed Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) committed last year
against innocent civilians have been seized, the Joint Anti-terror Task Force of
the National Intelligence and Security Service and the Federal Police said.

The task force told ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] that the apprehended persons
involved in the 28 May 28 2007 grenade attack in Jijiga [in southeastern
Ethiopia] city and the atrocious massacre of several Ethiopians and Chinese who
were in their line of duty at a petroleum exploration site at Abule area in
eastern Ethiopia.

These members of the self-styled ONLF were seized by security forces who
received public backing in their relentless efforts of tracking down on the
perpetrators of those appalling acts of terror, the task force said in a
statement entitled: "Terrorists cannot remain hidden from the public and
security forces."

Accordingly, the task force said the suspects who go by the names:

1. Hasan Ahmad Ali;

2. Muhammad Shaykh Ibrahim;

3. Muhammad Yusuf Shaykh Muhammad;

4. Kadir Agan Dani;

5. Kawsar Uthman Ali;

6. Kadir Shurik Muse;

7. Arab Su'ani Dulbahante, and

8. Hukhtar Muhammad Abdulahi, are now under custody as police launched further
investigations of their cases.

It said, the forenamed suspects were also engaged in activities of plotting and
committing murders in some towns in the Somali Regional State in eastern
Ethiopia. These suspects of the terror acts had roles ranging from serving as
accomplices to coordinating the atrocities committed against civilians, it said.

The task force commended the public for the cooperation they provided in the
activities of the security forces tracking down on the terror suspects who, it
said, were engaged in subversive activities.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 30 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2008 Monday

Separatist leader says arrests made over Georgian "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 475 words


Text of report by pro-separatist South Ossetian Press and Information Committee
website on 30 March

"Georgia's special forces are behind all the terrorist attacks in South
Ossetia," president of the [breakaway] republic of South Ossetia Eduard Kokoyty
said while commenting on the terrorist attack in Tskhinvali on 27 March [the car
of separatist prosecutor-general Taymuraz Khugayev exploded, killing a
passer-by].

"I want to point out that the events taking place in Tskhinvali now are links on
the same chain. It is no secret that Georgia's special forces are behind all of
these terrorist attacks. We know the identities of the specific people who
organized all of this. The perpetrators of several of the terrorist attacks are
now in custody in South Ossetia. It has already been proved; investigative
measures are under way. Now all that remains is to see everything through to the
end in the courts.

"The killer of security council secretary Oleg Alborov [killed in an explosion
in July 2006] has been found and is under arrest. The person who ordered this
crime has also been arrested. A [criminal] case has been opened concerning the
explosion in Java District as well as the explosion in the building of the South
Ossetian passport and visa service. All the perpetrators of these terrorist
attacks have been arrested and are giving confessions. Georgia's special
services are behind these terrorist attacks," president Kokoyty said.

The president stressed that "the state security service [KGB] of the republic of
South Ossetia knows specific names and we intend to invite ambassadors from
Western countries accredited in Georgia to the republic of South Ossetia in the
near future so that we can give them this information. It is clear that Georgian
politicians have no more political or legal grounds for holding dialogue, so
they have selected a new path - the path of using state terrorism to resolve the
Georgian-Ossetian conflict."

"This path is of course a very dangerous one, one that leads to a dead end. We
once again urge the Georgian leadership to reconsider. We urge them to listen to
our initiatives for the peaceful resolution of the situation. The situation is
certainly complicated. Georgia should not hope to resolve all issues by entering
the alliance [NATO]. This will not happen. Abkhazia and South Ossetia have
chosen their own path. We will achieve the independence of our state in strict
compliance with the norms of international law. I understand that it is hard and
difficult for our Ossetian people now, but we must pass this latest test,
because I am confident that the fight for independence will ultimately lead to
its logical conclusion. This logical conclusion is the independent republic of
South Ossetia," Kokoyty said.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 30 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 31, 2008, Monday
                                  1ST Edition

FAMILY IN TERROR AT RACE ATTACKS;
Mother's plea over attacks

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 424 words


A MOTHER-OF-TWO today spoke of her three years of racist hell at the hands of
yobs.

Gangs have made the 44-year-old woman, who is too scared to be identified, and
her two children virtual prisoners in their Stockbridge Village home.

In the latest incident, two ball bearings were flung at the patio doors of her
house, shattering the glass.

The nurse and her two children, a 13-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy, were
showered with glass as they sat in the living room.

Police have been investigating a catalogue of hate crime incidents and have
arrested youths in relation to the recent house attack.

Today, the victim described how:

Stones were regularly thrown at the property breaking windows.

The grass in her front garden was set on fire.

Her car was stolen from the driveway.

Eggs were hurled at her children.

The family suffer from persistent verbal racist abuse.

A gang of up to ten youths, some said to be as young as nine, are behind the
prolonged racist campaign.

She said: "It's been very frightening. I am so worried because my children are
not safe, but what can we do?

"The last incident was the worst. We were all sitting together when there was a
huge bang like a gun.

"The glass smashed into the room and my children were screaming.

"I can't let my kids play out in the garden and we have to stay inside our home
because we might be attacked."

Police are investigating the spate of incidents and, together with Knowsley
council, are in regular contact with the family.

Windows have been repaired and security lights added by the force, and the case
is being handled by the Sigma Unit, who deal with hate crimes.

DCI Martin Andrews said: "The ball bearing attack appears to be consistent with
a catapult being used.

"We are doing a lot to support the family and I would emphasise that these
incidents will not be tolerated.

"We have got a case going through court and hopefully we have got to grips with
many of the problems.

"There is an area of open green land behind the house and alleygating has been
put in to prevent people from congregating.

"More measures will be put in place to make the woman and her children feel more
secure."

An elevated fence has been erected behind the house by Knowsley council to deter
the yobs.

The mother came to England from Nigeria in 2003 and arrived in Liverpool after
some time living in London.

Vicar Philip Oyewale from Pentecost Baptist church in Kensington, is supporting
the victim. He said: "This is a group of young thugs who are making her life
impossible."

luketraynor@liverpoolecho.co.uk 0151 472 2486

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             April 1, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorists attack plot credibility

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 63 words


Vantage Point (Exeter Odeon and Vue) is an intricate action-thriller, which
replays a terrorist attack from eight perspectives - but coincidence and chance
nudge the film increasingly towards implausibility.

Deep relationships between the protagonists are sacrificed to propel the story
forwards. Stars Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox and William Hurt. Details: 08712
240240, 08712 244007.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              April 6, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

CCTV footage shows Smeaton is airport hero;
New proof comes to light in bitter row over baggage handler's terror attack
claims

BYLINE: By Derek Lambie and Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 705  words


THE bitter row between Scotland's terror heroes took a fresh twist yesterday
amid claims CCTV footage does prove John Smeaton helped thwart the airport
bombers.

Last month, the Scottish Sunday Express revealed doubts had been cast over the
former baggage handler's role in stopping the men who drove a blazing jeep into
Glasgow's main terminal.

Eyewitnesses - including two other men described as heroes for fending off the
terrorists - rounded on Mr Smeaton, 31, and insisted he grossly exaggerated his
involvement.

They poured scorn on his boasts that he landed a "karate kick" on one of the
bombers, and branded him "a fake" just days after he collected a Queen's
Gallantry Medal at Buckingham Palace.

But now it has emerged footage taken from security cameras at the airport - and
passed on to police probing the failed suicide attack - proves Mr Smeaton is a
hero.

Officials at BAA Scotland, which operates Glasgow Airport, have refused to
divulge details of what is contained on the tape. But a source close to the
investigation told the Sunday Express yesterday: "The CCTV shows that he
[Smeaton] did kick the guy as he said he did." Our revelations about Mr
Smeaton's heroics being questioned sparked a worldwide debate, with newspapers
as far away as Australia carrying the allegations. Two of the four men who
formed the so-called "band of brothers" - along with Mr Smeaton and heating
engineer Michael Kerr - said the former baggage handler was "not telling the
whole truth".

Stephen Clarkson and Alex McIlveen, who tore a tendon in his foot while kicking
burning Kafeel Ahmed, cast serious doubt on what happened outside Glasgow
Airport on June 30 last year. They said Mr Kerr, from Stirlingshire, was the
first member of the public on the scene after a Jeep Cherokee, laden with gas
canisters, drove into the terminal at 3.11pm.

It is believed he was floored and had his leg broken by medic Bilal Abdullah,
who came out the passenger side of the vehicle and attacked policeman Torquil
Campbell.

The men say Mr Kerr, 40, was then pulled away from the car by airport worker
Mary McCandlish, after she called for help from Mr Smeaton, who was watching the
drama as he smoked a cigarette outside the terminal building.

Mr McIlveen said last month: "When it came to tackling the bombers, he didn't
land a blow.

"The only reason Smeaton got so much attention is because of what he said about
Glasgow not tolerating terrorists. Every time I see him on the TV or in the
papers pretending to shed tears and all that, it just makes me so angry. He is a
fake." Mr Smeaton became an overnight sensation around the world because of his
energetic TV interviews in the aftermath of the attempted bombing. Since then,
he has received a Pride of Britain Award, a CNN Every Day honour and the Queen's
Gallantry Medal. He was also voted Scotland's third most eligible male.

He also has a weekly column in a tabloid newspaper, regularly appears on TV talk
shows and has been a VIP guest of the Prime Minister and First Minister.

In the aftermath of the allegations against him, Mr Smeaton continued to insist
he did attack one of the men.

Speaking to the Sunday Express at the time he said: "The police have matched me
up with CCTV footage. They came around and asked me exactly where I was that
day." In his newspaper column days later he added: "My story has never changed.
All I did was give one guy a boot and drag another from the car." However, Mr
Smeaton's accusers last night insisted they still believe him to be a fake and
said they would be "curious to see" any CCTV images the airport held. Mr
McIlveen said: "First he said he kicked the guy between the legs, then said he
kicked him in the thigh, and later he doesn't know if his kick connected.

"If you attack a terrorist you know exactly what you've done. I know I do."
David Clarkson, whose brother Stephen was among the first on the scene, said:
"Stephen never saw John but we know he helped Mary pull Michael Kerr away after
he injured himself.

"But did he just shout at this guy or did he land blows and punches. Did he
'banjo' or karate kick this terrorist like he said? That's always been our
question.

"If he is shown in this footage to do all that, then fair enough - good on him."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HERO OR FAKE: John Smeaton won an award for bravery, but Stephen
Clarkson and Alex McIlveen say they were heroes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 8, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Nine Moroccans convicted of terror attacks escape jail;
World News IN BRIEF

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 123 words


*Rabat Nine people linked to suicide bombings in Casablanca in 2003 have escaped
from jail in Morocco. Prison officers in Kenitra, 25 miles north of Rabat,
discovered the men were missing yesterday morning. A source at the Interior
Ministry told AFP news agency that the prisoners had tunnelled their way out.
The Justice Ministry said all measures had been taken to find the escapees. The
suicide bombings in Casablanca in May 2003 killed 45 people, including the
attackers. The bombings targeted a Jewish community centre and cemetery, a
hotel, a restaurant and a Spanish social club. The prison at Kenitra holds many
people convicted of terrorism-related crimes, but lacks high-security features,
according to a Moroccan prison charity.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             April 8, 2008 Tuesday

Man, 22, Hurt In Axe Attack Terror

BYLINE: Paul Loraine

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words


AYOUNG man was in hospital with serious head injuries last night after he was
attacked with an axe in North Tyneside.

The 22-year-old victim was assaulted in Matfen Gardens, Wallsend, at around 8pm
on Sunday.

Having suffered two fractures to his skull, his condition in hospital last night
was described as comfortable and not life- threatening.

A 41-year-old man arrested on suspicion of unlawful wounding has been cautioned
in relation to the incident, Northumbria Police said yesterday.

Following the assault, officers recovered an axe and a hammer from the scene.

Neighbours yesterday spoke of their shock at the severity of the attack.

A 45-year-old man who did not want to be named said: "I heard the police
arriving and the ambulance. There was lots of activity and you knew something
was up.

"To attack someone with an axe is just unbelievable. I can't believe that's
happened just here.

"The lad is lucky to be alive after going through something like that. It's a
savage way to act."

A 72-year-old woman, who also wanted to remain anonymous, said she heard
shouting and was worried when she saw the police arrive.

She added: "I was very concerned and thank God he's not dead. It is worrying
when something like this happens so close to your home."

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that a confrontation at Hallgarth Winlaton and
District Social Club, in Gateshead, on Saturday night, which left a 20-year-old
man with facial injuries, began as a row about Newcastle United and Sunderland.

The victim was taken to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead before being
transferred to Newcastle General Hospital. His condition last night was
described as critical but stable.

Electrician Allen Smaith, 49, chairman of the social club, said: "It is very
unusual for something like this to happen inside or outside the club.

"We have a zero-tolerance attitude towards violence and take a hard stance to
ensure we never have any trouble.

"It is important all those using the club feel safe. It is terrible something
like this has happened. We are led to believe an argument started over a dispute
about Newcastle United and Sunderland.

"The police have been viewing CCTV footage taken outside the club and from the
bus depot across the road."

Contact Northumbria Police on 08456 043 043  about either incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday

Israeli aircraft raid two Gaza targets after "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 95 words


Text of report by web version of Israeli newspaper Ma'ariv on 9 April

The IDF has confirmed that the Air Force raided two targets shortly after the
terrorist attack at Nahal Oz. IDF said one of the targets was a vehicle whose
passengers had been involved in the attack. The second raid's target is unclear
at this time."

[Israel radio added (Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1400 gmt 9 Apr 08):
"Army sources said the Shin Bet had been able to locate the vehicle within 30
minutes and to point helicopters to it."]

Source: NRG Ma'ariv website, Tel Aviv, in Hebrew 9 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday

Russian Interior Minister tells Dagestani counterpart to prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 301 words


Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev has demanded that Dagestan's
Interior Ministry take a preventive approach to counteracting terrorist attacks,
ITAR-TASS reported on 9 April, citing Nurgaliyev's opening statement at a
meeting of the republic's Interior Ministry.

"I would like to know about the changes in the operational situation in the
republic and what measures are being taken in order to work in a preventive
manner, to react to the existing threats both from terrorist and extremist
organizations as well as regards common crime," Nurgaliyev said, as quoted by
the report.

Speaking at the meeting, Dagestan's Interior Minister Adilgerey Magomedtagirov
said that in the first quarter of 2008 the ministry's work had focused on
stopping the militants' underground operations in Dagestan.

"This required bringing in additional forces from other Russian regions," the
report quoted him as saying.

He said that crime had gone down by 20.4 per cent in 2008. "During the same
period in 2007, a total of 4,334 crimes were committed as compared to 3,456
crimes in 2007," he said.

"In the first quarter of 2008 the activities of 14 organized criminal groups
were stopped, criminal proceedings were instituted against 25 of their members,"
Magomedtagirov said, as quoted in the report.

He said that the republic's police operations had revealed eight caches with
weapons and ammunition. A total of 44 assault rifles, four machine guns, over
500 carbines and rifles and 15 improvised explosive devices had been seized. He
said that people in the republic still possess a large number of weapons. Many
are giving them in exchange for money, and the republic needs more funding for
that purpose, the report quoted Magomedtagirov as saying.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0541 gmt 9 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

How to prepare for terror attack;
POLICE: Companies invited to special workshops

BYLINE: By Sian Powell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words


A SIMULATED terrorist attack will be used to teach Nuneaton and north
Warwickshire companies how to prepare their staff for a serious incident.

Detectives have sent out letters to hundreds of organisations inviting them to
one of three events in the county.

Called Project Argus, the workshops are aimed at businesses in crowded urban
locations.

The events will raise awareness about the terrorism threat and provide practical
advice on preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

Detective Inspector Steve Sidaway said: "The terrorist attacks in London during
July 2005 and the Haymarket bomb attack in 2007 dramatically highlighted the
need for businesses of all sizes to plan how they deal with the disruption
caused by a major crisis, emergency or incident.

"What we know of the threat from international terrorism is that places where
large numbers of people gather, travel or go about their daily business can be
favoured for attack.

"There is, however, no information to suggest that Warwickshire is any more
likely to suffer a terrorist attack than any other part of the country.

"There will be four workshops this month in different areas of Warwickshire.
Each of these will feature a tabletop, multi-media simulation of a terrorist
bomb attack where delegates will be faced with a series of questions and
dilemmas to resolve, both individually and collectively."

The events have been organised by Warwickshire Police in conjunction with the
Warwickshire Local Resilience Forum.

The workshops are being held on Tuesday, April 22, in Rugby, Wednesday, April
23, in Nuneaton, Tuesday, April 29, in Stratford and Wednesday, April 30, in
Leamington.

To attend a workshop, call 01926 415145 or e-mail CTSA@warwickshire.
pnn.police.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday

Danish intelligence warns of increased risk of terrorist attack

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report "DSIS: Risk of terrorist attack against Denmark has increased" by
Danish leading privately-owned independent newspaper Politiken website, on 10
April

After the reprinting of the Muhammad cartoons there are signs of an increasing
threat from militant extremists against Denmark and Danes overseas.

The risk of a terrorist attack against Denmark has increased.

This is the assessment of the Danish Security Intelligence Service (DSIS) [PET,
Police Intelligence Service] which writes in a new threat assessment "that today
there are signs of a stronger focus on Denmark also among leading Islamists
abroad and that those kinds of groups wish to carry out terrorist attacks
against Denmark as well as against Danes and Danish interest overseas".

"Threat becomes clearer"

The threat against Denmark comes particularly from regions where militant
extremist groups are active - that is, countries in North Africa and the Middle
East, and in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

DSIS chief Jakob Sharf says:

"The updated terrorist threat assessment does not indicate that the overall
terrorist threat level for Denmark has changed. But it is the DSIS's appraisal
that it is to some extent a matter of the threat picture becoming clearer with
respect to Denmark and Danes and Danish interests abroad."

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 10 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns Terrorist Attack By Palestinian
Militants Against Depot In Southern Israel

LENGTH: 157 words


RDATE:09042008

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General condemns the terrorist attack today by Palestinian
militants against the Nahal Oz depot in southern Israel, in which two Israeli
civilian contractors working to supply fuel to the Gaza Strip were killed and
others injured.

He is gravely concerned at the prospect of an escalation in violence and, while
recognizing Israel's legitimate right to self-defence, deplores the reported
civilian casualties among Palestinians during Israeli military operations this
afternoon. The United Nations calls for the protection of all civilians in the
conflict.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                             April 11, 2008, Friday
                                   1 Edition

Brother of Glasgow airport attacker admits terror charge

BYLINE: PAUL WILSON

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 479 words


A MAN today admitted withholding information about a failed suicide car bomb
attack on Glasgow Airport.

Sabeel Ahmed, 26, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to failing to give police
information about the terrorist attack.

The trained doctor is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed, who was the driver of a
burning Jeep Cherokee that was driven into the terminal building. He died later.

The doctor was arrested near Liverpool's Lime Street station on June 30 last
year and was later charged under the Terrorism Act. Ahmed, originally from
Bangalore in India, but then living in Ramilies Road, Liverpool, was the third
person charged in the investigation.

Two other men face a trial later this year accused of conspiracy to cause
explosions.

On June 29 last year two cars containing petrol, gas cylinders and mobile phone
detonators were discovered in central London. The next day the burning car was
driven into the main terminal building at Glasgow Airport.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw told the court that the airport attack was intended
to be a suicide mission after the earlier attacks failed. He said: "One assumes
that the nature of the attack in terms of what was planned had changed because
of the failed attempts in London. They appeared now to have been working on the
basis they were likely to be arrested and the attack to be conducted at Glasgow
was to be a suicide attack likely to result in the loss of both their lives.

"When outside the terminal, Kafeel Ahmed, who was driving the Jeep, turned the
vehicle sharply and crashed it into the pillars to the right hand side of one of
the entrance doors.

"He then, having found himself from his perspective out of position, reversed
the Jeep and made the first of a number of attempts to drive the vehicle through
the airport door, repeatedly hitting pillars and the door frame.

"Despite his efforts, the vehicle became trapped. Those who witnessed him
described a set and determined face as he stared forward. At that point the
vehicle was then 20 feet from passengers queuing within the terminal building.
His passenger lowered his window and threw a petrol bomb across the bonnet in
the direction of the taxi rank and then threw a second of these devices in the
opposite direction.

"At the same time the driver, the defendant's brother, began to pour and splash
fuel from a can on to the area outside the car window and appeared to throw a
petrol bomb.

"He got out of the vehicle and was engulfed in flames that swept around the Jeep
and terminal building. He appeared to try to prevent others from getting to him
or the vehicle. He kicked out but eventually, he being on fire, he was
extinguished, subdued, handcuffed and arrested."

Mr Laidlaw added that it was the busiest day of the year so far for the airport.

The attack caused panic within the terminal and a number of people suffered
minor injuries in the "crushing" that followed.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            April 12, 2008, Saturday
                                 Mersey Edition

Doctor jailed for lies over terror email;
Accused was told of airport attack

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 366 words


A LIVERPOOL doctor was yesterday jailed for 18 months for withholding
information on an airport suicide attack.

Sabeel Ahmed was sent a chilling email about the terrorist mission two days
before his older brother Kafeel rammed a jeep into the air terminal Glasgow.

And the court heard he had agreed to tell police his brother's cover story that
he was away in Iceland working on a global warming project.

Sabeel was living on Ramilies Road, Mossley Hill, when he was arrested near
Liverpool's Lime Street station on June 30 last year.

Yesterday, the former doctor at Halton hospital, Runcorn, and Warrington
hospital, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to withholding information about
terrorism, which carries a maximum sentence of five years.

But the tariff was reduced because he did not read the email until the evening
after the attack had taken place.

Because he has already served half his sentence on remand and has agreed to
leave the country, the 26-year-old was last night being released into the
custody of the immigration service to be deported back to India.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith told Sabeel: "I accept that so far as you personally
were concerned, there is no sign of your being an extremist or party to
extremist views."

However, the judge said, he had agreed to tell police his brother's cover story
that he was away in Iceland.

The court heard Sabeel, originally from Bangalore in India, refused to help
police and concealed the information he had.

Mr Laidlaw said the documents would have been of "considerable assistance" to
counter-terrorist police.

The email sent by Kafeel said: "This is the project that I was working on for
some time now. Everything else was a lie.

"It's about time that we give up our lives and our families for the sake of
Islam to please Allah."

The Old Bailey heard how his brother, Kafeel, drove a flaming Jeep Cherokee into
Glasgow airport's main terminal building on June 30.

The car was laden with petrol and gas canisters but the improvised bomb failed
to ignite.

Kafeel Ahmed suffered 90% burns and died of his injuries several weeks later.

The attack came 24 hours after two Mercedes cars, also carrying petrol and gas
canisters, were found in central London.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police on Ramilies Road Bomb failed to ignite

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ESCAPE FROM CAR BOMB MASSACRE;
Terror attack on club

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 364 words


HUNDREDS of nightclubbers escaped death when terrorists tried to trigger a huge
explosion in a gas-filled car.

More than 550 revellers were partying in London's Tiger Tiger nightclub when the
Muslim fanatics launched their attack.

They filled a Mercedes with gas cylinders, parked it outside the club and tried
to ignite it using their mobile phones, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.

But the court heard there was a "technical failing" with the detonator.

The car was moved into position by engineering expert Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who had
also planted a second failed "bomb" close to Trafalgar Square.

But Ahmed, of Cambridge, died the next day when he attempted a similar attack at
Glasgow Airport. He suffered horrific burns and injuries when he drove a blazing
Jeep into the terminal building.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw said Ahmed was planning a sustained campaign of
attacks.

He and a gang were targeting "places of entertainment where the devastating
effect and loss of life would be greatest".

Yesterday his brother Sabeel Ahmed, 26, of Liverpool, admitted knowing about the
plot and keeping quiet. The Indian-born doctor found messages from Kafeel after
his death. But he didn't tell police, despite knowing the identities of the
other bomb gang members.

And he continued to keep quiet after his arrest because it was his brother's
dying wish, said Mr Laidlaw.

Sabeel was sentenced to 18 months in jail but will be deported to India as he
has already served time on remand.

Mr Laidlaw said bosses at Tiger Tiger decided to evacuate the West End nightspot
on June 29 last year after they peered inside the Mercedes and saw gas fumes
billowing up inside.

He said: "There appeared to be a white duvet covering materials on the rear seat
and there was a strong smell of liquid petroleum gas." The bomb squad made the
car safe.

The Trafalgar Square car was found by a traffic warden who smelled chemicals.

Mr Laidlaw said: "These were potentially viable devices which could easily have
killed many people." Doctors Bilal Abdullah, 28, of Paisley near Glasgow, and
Mohammed Asha, 27, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire will stand trial in
October accused of being involved in all three car bombs.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: Police seal off Mercedes at Tiger Tiger club in West London
GRABBED: Kafeel Ahmed is held by police at Glasgow Airport; he later died from
his injuries
SENTENCED: Sabeel Ahmed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Airport suicide inferno plans revea le d Brother jailed for silence on e-mail
sent two days before terror attack

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words


TERRIFYING details of last year's botched terror attacks on Glasgow Airport and
London weremade public for the first time as the brother of one of the gang was
jailed for withholding information about the Scottish plot.

The Old Bailey in London was told yesterday that one of the bombers, Kafeel
Ahmed, knowing that police were closing in, launched a suicide mission when he
drove a Cherokee Jeep, laden with petrol and gas canisters, into the main
terminal building at the airport on its busiest day of the year.

After a number of failed attempts to drive the vehicle through the terminal
door, a passenger threw two petrol bombs out of the car's windows in opposite
directions as passengers queued just yards away.

Ahmed also began to pour and splash fuel from a can on to the area outside the
vehicle's window and appeared to throw another petrol bomb before he was knocked
to the ground and restrained.

Ahmed, who suffered 90 per cent burns, later died from injuries sustained in the
attack.

The first official details of the plot emerged yesterday after Ahmed's brother,
Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, an NHS doctor, pleaded guilty to withholding information
about terrorism, an offence that carries a maximum sentence of five years.

He had received an e-mail about the attack from his brother but failed to go to
police after the incident in Glasgow.

His sentence was reduced to 18 months because he did not read the e-mail until
after the attack had taken place. He will be released from custody and
voluntarily deported back to India almost immediately because of time in jail he
has already served, the court was told.

The e-mail, written two days before the Glasgow attack, directed him to online
documents containing his brother's will and instructions on how to frustrate and
mislead investigators.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said it was clear from the e-mail his brother sent that
he expected to die in the attack, and that his body would be left
unrecognisable. In the e-mail Kafeel Ahmed said: "I accept that so far as you
personally were concerned there is no sign of your being an extremist or party
to extremist views. ? However, the judge said he had agreed to tell police his
brother?s cover story that he was away in Iceland working on a global warming
project.

The Old Bailey heard that Kafeel Ahmed, 28, had targeted two nightclubs in
London with explosives made at his home in Glasgow before turning his attention
to the airport.

Two car bombs left near the nightclubs in London's West End at the end of June
last year had failed to explode.

The first was in a green Mercedes car parked near Piccadilly Circus. It was
found when an ambulance crew noticed the car was filling up with fumes.

A quick-thinking police officer disconnected a mobile phone he found in the car
before bomb squad officers arrived.

The second lethal device was discovered in aMercedes which had been towed away
after being found illegally parked.

Knowing the police were closing in, Kafeel Ahmed launched the airport suicide
mission and drove another car bomb into Glasgow Airport.

Jonathan Laidlaw, for the prosecution, yesterday said:

"He (Kafeel Ahmed) then, having found himself from his perspective out of
position, reversed the Jeep and made the first of a number of attempts to drive
the vehicle through the airport door, repeatedly hitting pillars and the door
frame.

"Those who witnessed him described a set and determined face as he stared
forward. At that point, the vehicle was then 20ft from passengers queuing within
the terminal building. His passenger lowered his window and threw a petrol bomb
across the bonnet in the direction of the taxi rank and then threw a second of
these devices in the opposite direction.

"At the same time the driver, the defendant's brother, began to pour and splash
fuel from a can on to the area outside the car window and appeared to throw a
petrol bomb.

"He got out of the vehicle and was engulfed in flames that swept around the Jeep
and terminal building. He appeared to try and prevent others from getting to him
or the vehicle. He kicked out but eventually, he being on fire, he was
extinguished, subdued, handcuffed and arrested."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

FURY OVER AIRPORT BOMBER'S BROTHER;
 He's free - despite witholding details about terror attack

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words


THERE was outrage last night after the brother of a terrorist who died following
an attack on Glasgow Airport walked free from court - despite admitting he
withheld information about the crime.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, pleaded guilty to the charge at the Old Bailey in London
and was sentenced to 18 months in jail but was then released on condition he
returns to India.

Judge Mr Justice Calvert-Smith told Sabeel the maximum sentence for withholding
information about the attack was five years behind bars but he handed out a more
lenient punishment as he accepted there is no sign of him "being an extremist or
party to extremist views."

Sabeel, who is from Bangalore, was then able to walk free as he has already
served 270 days in custody.

He will be voluntarily deported back to India immediately.

But, last night, Paisley and Renfrewshire North MP Jim Sheridan said Sabeel
should have been kept behind bars.

He added: "I would have liked to have seen a much longer sentence. I believe
that some judges live in a parallel world from the rest of us and don't
understand the frustrations and anxieties that normal people feel.

"I would like to congratulate the police and the security forces for bringing
this man to justice. The main thing is that this man, and those of his ilk, will
not be tolerated in the UK."

Yesterday, the Old Bailey heard that Sabeel received texts and e-mails from his
brother Kafeel, who had driven a burning Cherokee Jeep into the terminal
building at Glasgow Airport on June 30 last year.

Kafeel was arrested at the scene after being hosed down by an off-duty police
officer but had already suffered 90 per cent burns and died in Glasgow Royal
Infirmary on August 2.

Shortly before the attack, Kafeel had sent a text message to Sabeel, who was
based in Liverpool.

It alerted Sabeel to a draft e-mail available to read online.

He opened the e-mail after the attack had taken place and learned of his
brother's intentions.

In the e-mail, Kafeel said he would have achieved his goal by the time the
message had been read.

It also pointed out he had not said anything beforehand for the safety of both
his brother and the "project".

Kafeel appealed to his brother to keep it secret for as long as possible and to
appear shocked if told of what had happened.

He suggested telling people that he had gone to Iceland as part of a research
project on global warming.

Prosecuting, Jonathan Laidlaw told the court the e-mail amounted to instructions
from Kafeel to frustrate the police - and that it would have been of
"considerable assistance" to the authorities had it been handed over
immediately.

Mr Laidlaw said: "He failed to make the required, or any, disclosure and he had,
as his plea of guilty now demonstrates, no reasonable excuse for that failing."

Sabeel was arrested in Liverpool on June 30 - a few hours after he had learned
of the terrorist plot.

And he then lied to police about what he knew.

Mr Laidlaw said: "He continued to act in accordance with instructions he had
received from his brother, which were designed to frustrate the inquiries of the
authorities."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MUST RETURN TO INDIA: Dr Sabeel Ahmed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

My son was not involved in the airport terror attack

BYLINE: By Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 663  words


THE mother of an Indian doctor facing extradition for his part in last year's
failed terror attack on Scotland last night claimed: "My son is innocent".

Zakira Ahmed, whose older son Kafeel died weeks after he rammed a burning Jeep
into Glasgow Airport last June, claimed medic Sabeel had been framed as part of
a "conspiracy".

Her outburst came as the 26-yearold was sentenced to 18 months in prison for
withholding information on his brother's plans to embark on a jihad across
Britain.

Sabeel Ahmed, who was a doctor at the North Cheshire Hospitals NHS Trust, is
likely to be deported back to his homeland within days because he has already
served 270 days in custody. He is likely to arrive back in Bangalore to a hero's
welcome.

Mrs Ahmed, also a doctor, said yesterday: "He is innocent. He got trapped in a
conspiracy.

"I have told you long back from the very first day itself that my son Sabeel is
innocent. Still I am saying that he is innocent.

"But I don't know exactly the legal aspect of it, what they have done and what
they have not done. I feel he is innocent, I just want my son to be back. That
is the final result I want." Chilling details emerged of the Glasgow attack as
Ahmed stood in the dock at the Old Bailey on Friday. It was revealed how his
engineer brother Kafeel, 27, wanted to wage Islamic war on Britain. Just two
days before the suicide bomber put his plan into action in Scotland he e-mailed
his younger brother telling him to mislead police investigating his "project".

On June 29 last year two cars containing explosive devices were uncovered in
London by accident, averting a major incident. However, less than 24 hours later
Kafeel Ahmed attempted to blow up Glasgow Airport.

Just minutes ahead of his deadly mission the terrorist alerted his brother by a
text message to the disturbing e-mail containing his final wishes. By the time
the doctor, who was living in Liverpool, opened the message his brother had
already failed in his attempt to kill hundreds at Glasgow and was fighting for
his life in hospital.

The plot to murder travellers in Scotland's biggest airport during its busiest
day was thwarted when the bomb in the Jeep Cherokee failed to ignite. However,
Ahmed and his passenger threw petrol bombs to cause maximum destruction.

Images of the Indian engineer engulfed in flames, but still fighting against
police, quickly spread across the world. He was taken to hospital in a critical
condition with 90 per cent burns and died five weeks later.

On Friday, the Old Bailey heard how Ahmed was detained near Liverpool's Lime
Street Station hours after the attempted bombing but refused to cooperate with
the police or tell them about his brother's suicide note.

But the laptop containing the chilling e-mail was found in his home during a
police search.

Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, told the court the accused had done nothing to
help investigators despite having come "into possession of significant
information about the attack and those responsible for it".

He added: "Thereafter, he failed to make the required disclosure and had, as his
plea of guilty demonstrates, no reasonable excuse for that failing." Mr Laidlaw
went on to say the information Ahmed had would have been of "considerable
assistance" to the police investigating the attacks.

He faced up to five years in prison but the sentence was reduced to 18 months
because he had not read the e-mail until after the attack. And as he had already
served half of his conviction in prison and agreed to leave the country
immediately he was released into the custody of the immigration service to be
deported back to India.

A Home Office spokesman said they could not say when Ahmed was scheduled to
leave the country as they did not comment on individual cases.

But he added: "The Government's priority is to protect public safety and
national security using all the methods available to achieve this goal." Two men
face trial later this year accused of conspiracy to cause explosions.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL: Zakira Ahmed, left, has protested that her son Sabeel, above,
is innocent while her other son Kafeel, died from his injuries weeks after the
attack
AFTERMATH: Investigators at Glasgow Airport examine the Jeep Cherokee which was
driven into the terminal building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             April 14, 2008 Monday

Pensioner in terror after vandal attack

BYLINE:  Nadeem Hanif

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 436 words


A pensioner is living in fear after vandals targeted   the  steel fence she
put up   to protect her property.

Mary Franklin, from Oadby,  borrowed cash from a friend to pay for the a £3,000
fence.

But within days of it going  up, it had been sprayed with graffiti and some of
the panels were  pulled down.

Miss Franklin, who is too frightened to have her age and full address printed,
says  she cannot afford to replace it and fears someone will break into her
home.

She said: "I can't go to sleep at night it's got so bad, and no-one seems to be
willing to help me."

The  fence borders a public footpath where from where many  of the problems
stem.

"The anti-social behaviour has been a long-running problem around here," said
Miss Franklin, who suffers from arthritis.

"I can only describe them as louts who hang around in gangs causing problems,
but no-one does anything to help.

"I'm so frightened now that I jump every time I hear a noise."

The fence was put up last August after she received a letter from Oadby and
Wigston Borough Council demanding she take action to tidy up her boundary
fencing.

She said: "I had a few wooden fences put up in the past but they were always
pulled down.

"I thought the steel one would be better, but it was damaged within a week."

She said her insurance company will no longer accept any claims for replacement
fencing.

Despite writing to both the chief constable of Leicestershire  and the chief
executive of the borough council a month ago, she has not been contacted.

Her friend, Peter Smith, from Wigston, said her plight had been ignored by the
authorities.

He said: "This vandalism has been ongoing for months, yet nothing is done."

Michael Thomas, anti-social behaviour co-ordinator for the borough council, said
it  was aware of the problem.

He said the council's legal representative was in the early stages of talks with
Leicestershire County Council to install surveillance cameras overlooking the
fence.

Mr Thomas said: "There is a problem with anti-social behaviour and graffiti in
that area and we are trying to tackle it.

"We have had our youth bus at the scene to try to speak to the young people and
find out what we can do to turn them away from vandalism."

A spokeswoman for Leicestershire police said they were aware of the problems
Miss Franklin was experiencing.

She said: "The area is a neighbourhood beat priority and there is a multi-agency
approach to tackle damage, graffiti and other forms of anti-social behaviour in
the area.

"Work here is ongoing, and the beat team is in regular contact with Miss
Franklin to address the specific problems she is experiencing."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 15, 2008, Tuesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Sword attack terror at post office

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 176 words


ARMED robbers, one brandishing a sword and the other a sledge hammer, held up a
Birmingham post office.

The masked pair burst into the post office in Wood gate Valley and terrorized
staff who were forced to hand over cash.

Then they fled and are believed to have completed their getaway in a new style
blue Mini.

Today detectives made an urgent appeal for help from witnesses, The gang struck
at the Wood gate Lane branch at 10am on Saturday.

Police are convinced the thugs removed their balaclava-style masks as they ran
from the post office to the car.

Two men were later arrested in connection with the armed raid but have been
released on bail pending further inquiries.

A car was also recovered by police and was examined by forensics experts.

Det Insp Richard Mayhew, from Bournville Lane CID, said: "I would appeal for
witnesses, particularly anyone who may have seen the offenders getting in the
car and removing their masks, to come forward."

Anyone with information should call police on 0845 113 5000 or the anonymous
Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday

German security service warns against terrorist attacks on soft targets

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report by popular tabloid German newspaper Bild on 15 April

The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution [BfV] is sounding the
alarm: Islamist terrorists have now set their sights primarily on "soft
targets"!

In addition to train stations, the BfV also explicitly lists "major events" (for
example football matches, public festivals) among them. They cannot be
completely protected, it is said.

In its new annual report, which has not yet been published (excerpts were made
available to Bild), the Cologne BfV warns against deceptive peace - "Germany is
again the focus of Islamist terrorists!"

The BfV thinks that the latest video messages of the "Global Islamic Media
Front" (GIMF), which is close to Al-Qa'idah and is calling on Germany to
withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, are an indication of continued dangers of
attacks. The Islamist potential in Germany is estimated at about 33,170 people.

Source: Bild, Hamburg, in German 15 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday

Italian police arrest former far-left "terrorist' for anti-Muslim arson attacks

LENGTH: 673 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 11 April

[Report by Alberto Berticelli: "Former Red Terrorist Jailed: 'Nowadays He Was
Setting Mosques on Fire'"]

Milan - Roberto Maria Severini, 50, whose real name is Roberto Sandalo - one of
the most notorious terrorists (and turncoats) from Prima Linea [Front Line]
(which, with 101 attacks, 39 people shot at, 16 of whom were killed, was the
main group after the Red Brigades) - was jailed last night. He was charged with
arson and with the aggravating circumstances of religious discrimination and
illegally carrying weapons. He is believed to be both the mastermind and the
executor of a series of arson attacks (five attacks, responsibility for which
was claimed by the Fighting Christian Front [ Fronte Cristiano Combattente ])
against mosques in Milan and the surrounding area.

He was given away by writing on a wall along a highway in Veneto - "Stop Islam,"
followed by a cell number - which was scrawled under the watchful eye of the
Road Police. The other night [not further specified], the two most recent
attacks were carried out: the first one was against a car parked near the
Islamic Centre in Via Quaranta [in Milan], the second against two cars parked
outside the Islamic Centre in Segrate [town near Milan]. The DIGOS [state police
Division for General Investigations and Special Operations] managed to establish
"with absolute certainty" the presence of the former terrorist at the scenes of
the two attacks (in Milan between 2230 [ 2030 gmt] and 2232, in Segrate between
2330 and 2332). Searches took care of the rest. The detectives confiscated a
container with 5 litres of gas, two containers of weed killer, bottles
containing explosive mixes, seven Molotov cocktails that were ready for use, a
metal tube sealed at both ends that had a fuse, an axe, spray varnish, a
telescopic baton, and a stamp with the writing "Stop Islam." In his cellar, 10
Kg of ammonium nitrate were found.

The Milan Prosecutor's Office considers this arrest to be extremely important.
Armando Spataro, the deputy prosecutor (and the head of the counterterrorism
pool) said: "Whoever plays around by talking about guns, whoever incites racial
and religious hatred must be very careful about the meaning and consequences of
such words. There can always be an extremist lurking in the wings ready to act
on a word that could, objectively speaking, take on the meaning of 'mission
statement' [parola d'ordine ]." He then attacked the "authoritative
commentators" who have described these arson attacks as "feuds among Islamists,
thus mocking our concerns and those of the victims."

Mario Borghezio, European MP for the Northern League, replied as follows: "Who
has manipulated this professional infiltrator"?

A change of strategy had been announced by two claims of responsibility that are
thought to have been made by Sandalo over the telephone: "This is only the last
in this series of attacks. We will now raise the level." According to the police
and magistrates, this could have meant a shift "from attacks on objects to
attacks on people."

[The Turin-based La Stampa in Italian on 11 April carries an unattributed report
on page 17, which provides further remarks made by Milan Prosecutor Spataro:
"This was quite the opposite of feuds within Islam and Milan Deputy Public
prosecutor Armando Spataro has described these as actions 'rooted in racial and
religious hatred, something that must be stopped in this country.' Was Sandalo's
idea to have terrorism fight terrorism? 'This is a very dangerous idea. Islamist
terrorism is defeated through investigations and with the cooperation of the
Muslim communities - of which the overwhelming majority are made up of decent
people. The importance these investigations have is to demonstrate that, in a
democracy, there are no special deals for anyone.' Spataro also highlighted 'the
symbolic value this inquiry has' against racism.'"]

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 11 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Computer images are linked to terror attack;
 Defendants deny bombs plan claim

BYLINE: EXAMINER News Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 369 words


IMAGES of the ruined World Trade Centre and the burning wreckage of the
Pentagonwere among 49,000 found on the computer of one of the men accused of
helping the July 7 bombers plan their attack, a court heard.

The photos were discovered on the hard drive of a computer belonging to Waheed
Ali who is accused of accompanying two bombers on a reconnaissance trip to
London.

A jury at Kingston Crown Court were shown a number of recovered images which
included pictures of Osama Bin Laden, George Bush, Taliban leader Mullah Omar
and the banners of a number of websites.

Ali, 24, from Tower Hamlets, east London, is standing trial with Sadeer Saleem,
27, and Mohammed Shakil, 31, both from Beeston, Leeds, accused of conspiring
with Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shezhad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain
and others unknown to cause explosions between November 17 2004 and July 8 2005.

Khan - the alleged July 7 ringleader - lived in Thornhill Lees with his wife and
family. Lindsay was a former Rawthorpe High School student.

They and the other two suicide bombers murdered 52 people when they set off
bombs on the capital's transport network in 2005. The defendants deny the
charge.

All three are alleged to have carried out a two day reconnaissance mission in
the capital on December 16 and 17 2004 with bombers Hussain and Lindsay.

They are accused of pinpointing potential targets and the court has heard they
visited the Natural History Museum, the London Eye and the London Aquarium.

The jury was told today that a total of 49,092 thumbnail images, including
pornographic material and advertisements were recovered from Ali's computer when
it was seized from an address in Leeds.

Among them were banners from websites including "Prominent Martyrs of Iraq" and
"Jihad Unspun".

One image contained pictures of the flattened twin towers, an aircraft about to
strike one of the buildings and the Statue of Liberty with the words "Knowledge
is for acting upon".

Other images included military vehicles, Middle-Eastern soldiers carrying
firearms and public gatherings.

One picture showed a man wearing a headscarf carrying a weapon. In another, a
close up of the same man's face, he appears to be dead.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  POWERFUL IMAGERY: Waheed Ali whose computer included pictures of Osama
Bin Laden and the 9/11 attack on New York

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      April 16, 2008 Wednesday 4:51 PM BST

CCTV 'SHOWS TERROR CELL PREPARING FOR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, PA Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 49 words


CCTV footage allegedly showing key members of a terrorist cell preparing for
attacks on passenger jets was shown to a jury today.

Evidence filmed at a series of shops shows the men buying and considering
equipment for their deadly plot, a court was told.

Abdulla Ahmed Ali and co-defendant Tanvir H

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday

Bravery award for PCs who saved girl (2) in terror attack

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: RADCLIFFE HEADLINES

LENGTH: 213 words


TWO PCs launched a daring rescue to save a two-year-old girl held hostage at
knifepoint by her mum.

Fearing the woman would carry out her threats to kill both herself and her
daughter, PCs Colin Langstroth and Kevin McGill managed to overpower her and
pluck the child to safety.

The events happened at a nursery in Radcliffe in June last year. The mother of
the young girl, who had been taken into foster care, arrived at the nursery for
a supervised visit. She grabbed her daughter and threatened staff with a kitchen
knife.

Shocked staff tried to calm the woman. After tying the child to her with a
scarf, the mum placed the knife across the girl's throat and threatened to kill
them both.

PCs Langstroth and McGill discovered the child gagged, motionless and trapped
between the woman's legs. PC Langstroth crept behind the woman and grabbed hold
of the arm holding the knife. PC McGill helped restrain the woman while nursery
staff took the child to safety.

Her mother, aged 22, has been convicted of causing cruelty and possessing an
offensive weapon. She will be sentenced at Bolton Crown Court later next month.

PCs Langstroth and McGill have been honoured with the Chief Constable's High
Commendation for their courage and bravery at a presentation ceremony at Bury
Town Hall.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

THUGS PUT PUB UNDER SIEGE;
 Terror at stone and bottle attack

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 505 words


A FAMILY fun day ended in violence when drunken thugs laid siege to a pub and
pelted the building with a barrage of bricks and stones.

Customers ran for cover as windows were smashed in, sending sharp pieces of
glass flying.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard how trouble flared at the Traveller's Rest in
Neilston at around 2am after the local community had celebrated the annual
cattle show.

Bosses at the pub had arranged a licence extension to lay on entertainment and
everyone had an enjoyable night until James Graham, Brian Pringle and a third
man arrived just before last orders were served.

Publican James Jack said that it was while trying to get people to leave after
they stopped serving drink that trouble erupted.

Graham, Pringle and their pal failed to heed the request to drink up and go and
became abusive.

"I was not particularly happy," said Mr Jack. "It had been a great night and
everyone else was in a good mood. The three of them were verbally abusive to
staff and reluctant to hand their glasses over.

"Finally, they agreed to leave and, because of what had happened, we locked the
doors behind them."

The court was told that, seconds later, a barrage of missiles rained in on the
windows just behind an area where customers were sitting.

Mr Jack said: "The double glazing didn't break at first but, under the continual
hail of missiles, they eventually broke, sending shards of glass into the room.

"Some of the stones flew inside. There were marks on the walls and pictures. We
found several bricks afterwards."

The pub boss added he was able to see that those who had been ejected were the
ones throwing the missiles and was "fairly sure" all three were involved.

As police were summoned, customers - some in their 60s and others even older -
were ushered away from danger.

Mr Jack said it had been a shocking incident and a terrible end to what had been
a very busy but enjoyable day.

Two people were injured from being struck, including a customer who was hit on
the head and a member of the bar staff who was hit on the shoulder.

Midway through the trial, Graham, of Stewart Street, and Pringle, of Balgray
Crescent, both Barrhead, changed their pleas and admitted culpably and
recklessly throwing stones at the pub, smashing windows in the process and
injuring William Duffy.

The court was told that 22-year-old Graham only reacted in the manner described
after he had been hit on the head with a bottle during a confrontation in the
pub before they left.

Prior to that, his demeanour had been described as "jovial" and he was even
handing out beer to people from a carry-out he had with him.

When eventually detained by police, he told them: "I got bottled. That's why we
did the windaes in."

It was stated that he had been taken to hospital to have a head injury examined.

Sheriff Neil Douglas deferred sentence on Graham and 20-year-old Pringle and
called for background reports.

He told both men they would learn their fate when they returned to court for
final disposal next month.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  YOB: Brian Pringle
 BROKE WINDOWS: James Graham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            April 17, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

CCTV footage 'shows terrorist cell preparing for airline attacks';
Accused men caught on camera allegedly buying items for bombs

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 587 words


CCTV footage allegedly showing key members of a terrorist cell preparing for
attacks on passenger jets was shown to a jury yesterday.

Evidence filmed at a series of shops shows the men buying and considering
equipment for their deadly plot, a court was told.

Abdulla Ahmed Ali and co-defendant Tanvir Hussain were captured on camera at
B&Q, Ikea and Tesco stores in north and east London.

Woolwich Crown Court was shown footage of the men buying torches, batteries,
clamps, a craft knife and glass jars.

At one point, an undercover police officer photographed the men inspecting
bumbags at a supermarket as he stood next to them.

Prosecutor Richard Whittam said the officer overheard Hussain say: "I think you
can fit a bottle of water in."

Eight men are on trial accused of conspiring to murder thousands by detonating
home-made bombs on transatlantic planes.

They planned to disguise the liquid bombs as soft drinks before smuggling them
aboard, it was claimed. They deny the offences.

Prosecutors yesterday painstakingly documented the movements of several members
of the gang in the weeks before their arrest in August 2006.

Surveillance teams followed alleged ringleader Ali as he met other conspirators,
shopped and visited internet cafes, the court heard.

The court was shown CCTV footage from B&Q, in Leyton Mills, east London, Ikea,
in Edmonton, north London, and a nearby Tesco Extra.

The jury was also shown police surveillance photographs of Ali as he shopped and
chatted with others in a Walthamstow park.

Evidence was heard of how police watched Ali visit mobile phone shops, Blue
water shopping centre and Walthamstow Police Station.

Detailed invoices, receipts and even speeding ticket documents were also shown
to the court.

Speaking about the trip to Tesco Extra on July 13, 2006, Mr Whittam said Ali and
Hussain visited the camping and outdoor section.

The men looked at kitchen knives and other utensils before spending several
minutes examining bottles of soft drink.

Mr Whittam said they were seen "paying particular attention to the caps and
seals of the bottles".

Prosecutors said the men planned to use syringes to inject a volatile liquid
into the soft drink bottle bombs.

They would then drink from a normal bottle while carrying a bomb disguised as a
second innocuous and unopened drink, it was claimed.

The court also heard how alleged quartermaster Assad Sarwar was captured on
camera speeding at 85mph on the M4 on April 27 2006. The prosecution claimed he
was travelling to a wholesaler to purchase hydrogen peroxide, a key ingredient
for the improvised bombs.

Earlier, the court heard how bomb-making materials including wires, bulbs and
gloves were discarded in Lloyds Park.

The green space is a short distance from a Forest Road flat which prosecutors
claim was used as a bomb factory.

Among items found were short plastic wires attached to miniature bulbs with the
filaments exposed.

Police believe the tiny devices were intended to spark the home-made liquid
bombs when connected to a battery.

The defendants are: Ali, aka Ahmed Ali Khan, 27, of Prospect Hill, Walthamstow;
Assad Sarwar, 27, of Walton Drive, High Wycombe; Tanvir Hussain, 27, of
Nottingham Road, Leyton, east London; Mohammed Gulzar, 26, of Priory Road,
Barking; Ibrahim Savant, 27, of Denver Road, Stoke Newington, north London;
Arafat Waheed Khan, 26, of Farnan Avenue, Walthamstow; Waheed Zaman, 23, of
Queen's Road, Walthamstow; and, Umar Islam, aka Brian Young, 29, of Bushey Road,
Plaistow, east London.

The case was adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2008 Friday

Iran official reacts to Gaza attacks, condemns "Zionist terrorists"

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website

Fars correspondent: The foreign ministry spokesman of our country has called the
merciless killing of the innocent people of Gaza has clear evidence of the
terrorist and inhumane nature of the Zionist regime and he has condemned it
strongly.

Seyyed Muhammad Ali Hoseyni pointed to the moving pictures of the tank
operations of the regime occupying Palestine against the defenceless people of
Gaza who had gone about their business. He added: The silence of international
community and the support of America and the Western countries in face of these
crimes are in direct contradiction with the human rights claims of the west. It
will encourage this regime in consolidating the process of committing greater
crimes against the innocent nation of Palestine.

The spokesman of the foreign ministry called the Gaza events and the reluctance
of the [UN] Security Council as making the international community sorrowful and
called on the Islamic countries to make a concerted effort to stop the actions
of the criminals of the Zionist regime.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0900 gmt 18 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 18, 2008 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

RANTING MUSLIM PREACHER OF HATE FACING LIFE IN JAIL;
Fanatics urged terror attacks

BYLINE: by EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 316 words


A MUSLIM hate preacher who heckled the Home Secretary is facing life behind
bars.

Omar Brooks, 33, urged terror attacks on British troops fighting in Iraq.

He told hundreds of young Muslims it was their duty to join the "Holy War". The
hate-fuelled extremist showed no emotion as he was convicted yesterday for
encouraging terrorism.

He was also found guilty of raising cash to fund terror attacks on British and
American troops. The Muslim convert - a disciple of notorious "Sheikh" Omar
Bakri - told worshippers at Regent's Park Mosque it was their "obligation" to
Allah to join Jihad and murder coalition soldiers.

Mosque security guards called police to throw out the fanatics but officers were
forced to retreat after being surrounded by a baying mob.

Ranting Brooks and his cronies whipped the crowd into a frenzy by praising the
9/11 plotters and supporting Iraq insurgents.

The Muslim convert was born Trevor Brooks to Jamaican parents in London and was
also known as Abu Izzadeen.

He became notorious for verbally attacking then Home Secretary John Reid on live
TV as he addressed a meeting in East London in 2006.

Brooks was found guilty with five other men at Kingston Crown Court. One was an
engineer brought up on RAF bases who became the first white British Muslim to be
convicted of terrorism offences.

Sulayman Keeler, 35, was born Simon Keeler to a Roman Catholic family in
Crawley, Sussex.

Keeler described the 9/11 murders as "magnificent" and called the suicide
bombers "The Magnificent 19".

The court heard the group followed "the same extreme violent ideology of Osama
Bin Laden".

Some of the gang - all linked to Bakri's now banned Al-Muhajiroun group - used
loudhailers to lead protests inside and outside the mosque.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw said: "The speakers are collectively seeking support
for the Jihad and encouraging the insurgency in Iraq. " Brooks will be sentenced
today.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIREBRAND: Brooks whipped up the crowd into a frenzy
GUILTY: Sulayman Keeler, escorted by police, is the first British white Muslim
convicted of terrorism offences
DISCIPLES: Abu Bakri

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                             April 18, 2008 Friday

Protecting against terrorist bomb attack - online survey

SECTION: ARTICLE; Structures; Features

LENGTH: 292  words



HIGHLIGHT: Complete the  for your chance to win a free place at the Protecting
against terrorist bomb attack conference in London on 4 June 2008.


The key aim of the UK Government's counter terrorism strategy is to reduce the
risk from international terrorism so that people can go about their daily lives
freely and with confidence. As part of this plan, the Government recently
announced its 'National Security Strategy', which amongst a number of measures
highlighted the need to protect buildings, crowded places and the people who
frequent them from terrorist bomb attack.

The challenge now facing the UK is one of disseminating the existing knowledge
of blast protection techniques from an inner circle of experts to a wider
audience of construction and security professionals. This requires leadership
from those organisations with expertise, as well as best practice sharing, to
ensure our strategic infrastructure, key public and commercial buildings and the
nation's citizens are effectively protected.

To find out more,  to complete our online survey for your chance to win a free
place at the Protecting against terrorist bomb attack one-day conference on 4
June 2008.

The conference will focus on reviewing best practice for the physical protection
of structures and site perimeters against vehicle borne explosive attack.
Speakers include representatives from the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office (NaCTSO), the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure
(CPNI), Corus Bi-Steel, Arup Security Consulting and TRL.

The deadline for completing this  is 2 May 2008. All completed surveys will be
entered into a draw and the first three selected at random will be offered free
entry into the one-day conference Protecting against terrorist bomb attack on 4
June 2008.

To find out more about the conference or to sign up today, visit

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2008 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             April 18, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Student is robbed in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 152 words


A TERRIFIED student was robbed at knifepoint during a late night attack in
Paisley's West End.

The 19-year-old woman was at the university's Halls of Residence in the town's
Underwood Lane when the yob pounced and took her by surprise.

He produced a blade, threatened the horrified student and demanded cash.

The thug snatched her purse, which had money inside, ran off and disappeared in
the darkness.

The woman alerted security staff at the Halls of Residence who told the police.

The frightening robbery happened around 11.30pm on Wednesday. The woman was not
hurt but shaken by her ordeal.

Last night police said they were hunting a young man, aged 18 to 24, who wore a
blue and white striped hooded top and black trousers.

One officer said: "We want to hear from anyone who saw what happened or knows
the person responsible. Ring Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 April 18, 2008

Prince Harry terror attack scenario played out VIDEO

LENGTH: 207 words


POLICE divers and Royal Navy bomb disposal experts were called to search
Clarence Dock in Leeds amid fears of a terrorist attack threat to Prince Harry's
visit to the Royal Armouries.

Or at least that was the make-believe scenario facing underwater search units
from six northern police forces when they staged a major security exercise to
prepare for such a real-life situation.

In almost pitch-black conditions, nearly 60 police frogmen carried out an
inch-by-inch fingertip search of the dock for fake bombs, a gun, a body and
clothing supposedly left by two suspects. All were found.

Nearly half of Britain's underwater search trained police - including units from
West and South Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Northumberland, Humberside and
Nottingham forces - took part.

Also involved were the Royal Navy Explosive Ordnance Disposal unit from Faslane,
Scotland, and the Army's Royal Engineers.

David Wright, of the West Yorkshire Police Operations Support Division and the
Association of Chief Police Officers Diving Group, said: "Such exercises as this
are of national importance. These officers are not just divers, they are
multi-skilled police who are also involved in all facets of day-to-day
neighbourhood policing as well as special operations."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 April 20, 2008

Focus: Birth of a nation: ISRAEL: 60 YEARS OF HOPE AND DESPAIR: As the
anniversary of its independence approaches, Israel remains haunted by conflicts
of the past and is split along racial, religious, economic and ideological
lines. Terrorist attacks are commonplace. But there is also pride mixed with
self-criticism, and a yearning for a fresh start on both sides of the
Arab-Israeli divide

BYLINE: SAM KILEY, TEL AVIV

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2849 words


Uri Ben Ami washed down a mouthful of squid with a Maccabee beer and sighed as
he sank into the folds of a padded deckchair on Tel Aviv's beachfront while
Lycra-clad women sprang past on the wet sand. 'This,' he said. 'Is as good as it
gets.' He chose to ignore the thrumming approach of two Apache helicopters
returning from a sortie over Gaza to the south where dozens of Palestinians have
died in attacks by their Hellfire missiles over the past months. Uri, a graphic
designer, wanted to enjoy the modern wonder that is Israel. 'The fear and
violence I'm ignoring. It's always been there. Today it's good to be in Israel,'
he said.

It is very nearly 60 years since Israel's birth, six decades of a controversial,
violent, bloody history. On 14 May, 1948, 250 Zionists gathered in the Tel Aviv
Museum to attend one of the century's most important meetings. At 4pm precisely
David Ben Gurion - who would in a few moments become Israel's first Prime
Minister - brought his gavel down for silence and, after a spontaneous rendition
of 'Hatikva', the national anthem, began reading Israel's Declaration of
Independence from handwritten notes. Twelve leaders of the Yishuv, the Jewish
community in Palestine, were unable to attend because they were already besieged
by Arab forces in Jerusalem in a conflict which had erupted the year before when
the United Nations voted to partition the British mandate of Palestine into Arab
and Israeli zones. As the ink dried on the independence scroll, the armies of
Syria, Jordan and Egypt threw themselves into a battle to wipe out the Jewish
state. And it is a war which continues, in the view of many, to this day.

Last week at least 22 people, including five children, three Israeli soldiers
and a Reuters journalist, died in fighting between Palestinians and Israelis.
The journalist and several Palestinians were killed or injured when an Israeli
tank fired a flechette shell, containing thousands of darts, at the Reuters
team.

Yesterday Hamas militants rammed a bomb-laden car into an Israeli border
crossing, killing three of the militants and wounding 13 Israeli soldiers. It
was the third major attack in less than two weeks on crossings used to transfer
limited supplies of humanitarian goods and fuel to the Hamas-controlled Gaza
Strip, home to 1.5 million people. These were the latest attacks in a conflict
which has been fed by Arab nationalism, Islamist hostility to Israel and its
allies, and the threat of a nuclear Iran.

The 'Zionist entity', as its enemies call it, remains an object of awe and envy.
'Israel makes us Arabs feel bad. It has no oil, no resources, no nothing, but it
wins wars and, if we're honest, looks like a nice place to live. It exposes our
own failings and that's why so many of us hate it,' says Ibrahim Rajoub, who was
visiting Palestinian relatives on the West Bank last week from his home in
Jordan.

By the time the armistice was signed in the 1949 fighting, the 29,000 men, women
and children of Israel's disparate militia and settler groups had grown into a
force of 110,000. By then Palestine's Arabs had suffered the Naqba
(catastrophe); 250,000 of them were driven from their homes by Israeli troops,
sometimes using selective massacres and intimidation, into exile in Jordan,
Syria and Lebanon. Their descendants still dream of returning to the fields and
villages seized when Israel increased its land area by 50 per cent in under 12
months from what it had been allotted in the UN's 1947 partition plan.

It violated the spirit of the Balfour Declaration of 1917 in which Arthur
Balfour, the British Foreign Secretary, said the government viewed 'with favour
the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people', but
added: 'it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may
prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in
Palestine'.

The Zionist founders of Israel were in no mood for compromise. The Holocaust had
driven home their desperate need for a safe haven - even if it meant fighting to
hold on to it for generations. 'You cannot underestimate how important it was to
us, and is to us, to have a National Home after being persecuted the world
over,' says Meir Lau, former Chief Rabbi of Israel and now Tel Aviv's chief
rabbi.

Lau arrived in Palestine in July 1945 with his 19-year-old brother, Napthali, on
a chartered Australian fishing boat straight from Buchenwald. He was the
youngest boy among 200 survivors of Hitler's exterminations on the boat. 'When
we landed at Haifa trains were waiting for us. They were cattle trucks, just
like the ones that took people to Auschwitz, metal boxes with wire-covered slits
for air. We were being interned by the British, who were trying to stop Jewish
immigration into Palestine. When we arrived in the Atlit camp I saw men in
uniform with guns and pistols. I said to my brother, "I thought you were
bringing me to the National Home for the Jews - are we going to be killed?" It
was months before we got out, but the lesson was that no one, not even the
British, would help us. We would have to do this on our own.' Tel Aviv was then
no more than a few jerry-built blocks and huts, filled with the frequently
starved and broken shells of humanity who had made it through the death camps.
Today it is a thriving metropolis, part of a coastal belt which has the second
highest number of internet start-up companies after the US, great beaches, and
heaving night clubs amid some of the finest Bauhaus architecture in the world.

Israel has risen from almost nothing. There was no industry to speak of in 1948.
Today Israel is a nuclear power with an economy still growing at 3 per cent, in
spite of the costly 2006 war with Hizbollah in Lebanon. But above all the
self-analysis and self-criticism of Israel, within what is the closest thing to
democracy in the region, have given the Jewish state its greatest strength. It
is hard to conceive of a British commission of inquiry daring to hand out the
sort of drubbing given Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and his top generals by the
Winograd Commission, which accused Olmert of incompetence and knee-jerk strategy
in the last Lebanon war.

But Israel is still defined by religious or racial parameters which mean that
the Arabs who remained after 1949 found themselves subjected to military law for
18 years, were constantly harassed, and stripped of most of their land before
being included as, almost, full Israeli citizens with a vote. Among them was the
family of Sayed Kashua, 33, an Israeli Arab, one of Israel's leading Hebrew
authors with two novels and a successful TV sitcom under his belt. 'My family
stayed on, and didn't become refugees, because the armistice was signed just as
the Jewish forces were approaching our village, el-Tira which sits on the 'green
line', the armistice line of 1949 separating Israel from the West Bank. They had
already shot my grandfather and uncle dead in the fields where they worked.'

The unfortunates who became refugees from the 1948 war still keep the keys to
the homes they fled as symbols of their 'right to return' enshrined in UN
resolution 194. That right has been flatly denied by Israel, adding fuel to the
Arab world's general desire to destroy the Jewish state. But Rabbi Lau is
delighted by the success of the national home for the Jewish people. 'We have
absorbed people from 140 countries. We have revived Hebrew as a living language,
which is now a national tongue. We are a noisy democracy and there are six
million Jews living in a country which is their home as promised to them in the
Torah. That is most definitely a success'.

Israel expanded again in 1967 when it launched a pre-emptive assault on Egypt,
whose ramshackle coalition of Arab armies was routed in just six days.
Ironically, just as in 1948, the fighting provided the excuse for a second wave
of land seizure by Israel, including East Jerusalem, Syria's Golan Heights, the
Sinai peninsula (later returned to Egypt) and Gaza, as Israeli troops burst
through the green line to take over the West Bank of the Jordan river. Although
the Israeli cabinet originally discussed trading the newly occupied lands for
peace with the Arabs, degrees of occupation have continued to this day, despite
the Oslo accords and evacuation of Gaza.

As a paratrooper in 1967, Avishai Margalit, a Zionist intellectual with no
qualms about defending the country he had seen being born during the fighting in
Jerusalem in 1948, took part in the Israeli capture of Jerusalem from Jordanian
forces, then marched on Hebron to the south. Hailed as Zionism's final great
achievement - establishment of a united Jewish capital in Jerusalem - Margalit
(now a professor of philosophy at Princeton and the Hebrew University) saw
things differently - even then.

'I knew then we were marching into a trap of our own making. Being an occupying
power would be, and has been, the greatest threat to our survival and to the
health of the country,' he says. 'Now we are struggling to figure out how to get
out of this trap we've been in for 31 years.

'Worse still, while everyone sane recognises that we're going to have to get out
of the West Bank and establish an independent Palestinian state, Israel is still
building settlements on West Bank land taken from Palestinians, sowing the seeds
of yet more hatred and violence.'

Since 1967 Israel has, illegally under international law, settled an estimated
250,000 people in the occupied West Bank and made it clear that only the
smallest populations would be removed as part of a peace deal. And the Israeli
Defence Forces have erected a vast 'security barrier' of concrete and wire
slicing off yet more Palestinian territory.

And today, with the 60th anniversary of independence fast approaching, there are
a significant number of Israelis on both left and right asking whether in the
intervening period the Israel declared by its founding fathers as a largely
secular, communitarian project has not somehow lost the plot.

Israel's 1.7 million Arabs are these days seen as a 'demographic threat' to the
Jewish nature of the state in a country where some politicians have begun to
talk openly of 'transfer' of ethnic Arabs to Palestinian areas, or of slicing
off Arab villages in Israel and handing them over to Palestinian control.

'This kind of talk has started to make me feel frightened, where in the past I
only felt like a second-class citizen. We relive the Naqba of 1948 every day I
have been an Israeli Arab. For how long I don't know,' says Kashua, whose home
village, like most Arab-Israeli towns, is scruffier than nearby Jewish areas.

'I cannot buy a flat in a Jewish neighbourhood - not even me, who is pretty well
known and writes in Hebrew. There is probably greater resentment between the
Jewish and Arab Israeli communities now than ever before. We're seen as a
problem, not as citizens,' he says.

If Israel sees its Arabs as a threat, there is an even bigger problem closer to
home. It is a familiar scene all over the world. A farmer passes down the line
of stalls filling buckets with fodder, raising appreciative cries from his
animals. Except that the farmer is Shlomo Kimschi, he's Jewish, this is the Holy
Land, and the grunting creatures are pigs, destined for a slaughterhouse in
Israel's booming pork industry.

Such an unforeseen and, for many Jews and Muslims, abhorrent scene has its roots
in Israel's first war. The village of Iblin was annexed in 1948. Tiny numbers of
Christian Arabs who chose to remain were given dispensation to rear pigs in what
the Ministry of Agriculture now calls 'red zones'. Spotting an opportunity in
the 1960s, Kimschi's secular parents rented land from Christian Arabs, about 20
miles east of Haifa. It was a smart move. In the 1990s a million new immigrants
flooded in from the former Soviet Union, many devoted to guzzling pork. They
created a boom in the market and Israel is now home to some 150,000 breeding
pigs in northern Galilee.

'Those were good times for us. Ironically our industry is protected by Israel's
kosher laws, which forbid the importation of meat from abroad. So we have the
market to ourselves,' says Kimschi.

But for many Israelis this is a sign that the Zionist enterprise has gone badly
awry - on top of the threats from the Arab world and Palestinian terror, Israel
is losing its Zionist soul. Some of the most important institutions are coming
under pressure. The army, once at the heart of the Zionist enterprise, is today
beginning to take its toll on conscripts amid the burden of fighting in Lebanon,
Gaza and the West Bank. Historian Michael Oren, of the right-wing Shalem Centre
in Jerusalem, points to a 'reluctance to join the army' as a sign of a general
'collapse of the Zionist principles of self-sacrifice, probity and collectivism
which have built and protected Israel'.

A quarter of the men and women called up for national service now slide out of
it, claiming mental problems or religious exemption. And a growing number of
seasoned soldiers from elite units and the air force are refusing to fight on
moral grounds.

Zohar Shapira spent 15 years as a member of the Special Forces, the Sayeret
Metkal, ending as a warrant officer in charge of 13 other highly trained men
before he decided Israel's occupation beyond the green line was bad for Israel
as well as the Palestinians.

'I didn't kill anyone, thank God. But when you're kicking down doors and
shooting live rounds over the heads of young children in their own homes, you
have to question what you're doing. For many years I believed that the missions
I went on were defending the Jewish state, but the immorality of what we did on
the West Bank endangers the Jewish state. A country with no moral flags can
become barbaric - it becomes a question of the laws of the jungle,' he says in a
coffee shop in Raanana. 'If things go on like this, with violence feeding
violence - I'm not sure I want to bring up my children here.'

Since the huge Russian immigration of the 1990s, there are at least 300,000
non-Jewish Israeli immigrants in addition to the 5.7 million Israeli Jews. The
aggressive recruitment of immigrants means that Israel now has its own neo-Nazi
movement. Last week three Russian immigrants in their late teens and one adult
were sentenced to between 18 months and four years for assault and racism after
filming one another beating up ultra-Orthodox Jews and homeless people. Four
more members of the gang, Patrol 36, including the leader, Arik Bunyatov (known
as Arik the Nazi), face similar charges after shocking videos were found on a
Russian neo-Nazi website. A fifth, an IDF sergeant, has fled to Russia, where
neo-Nazi websites hosted the group's videos.

Zalman Gilichenski, himself an immigrant from Moldova, who monitors extremist
anti-Semitic groups in Israel, says these are not isolated incidents. 'I get at
least four calls a week about the desecration of Jewish graves, fascist graffiti
and lots of personal attacks. Graffiti says things like "Death to the Yids, Heil
Hitler". There have been 500 incidents of attacks and abuse in the last two
years and there are several hundred neo-Nazis in Israel. People who came in the
1990s, a lot of them did not feel Jewish or want to be Jewish but were in fact
anti-Semites getting out of Russia. They've passed their ideology on to kids
brought up here. You have to ask what's the point of Israel if this goes on,' he
says.

Meanwhile, if Jesus Christ were alive today among his earliest miracles would be
to survive his own baptism, because of the profligate use of the River Jordan's
waters for irrigation in Israel and the kingdom of Jordan. At the site
attributed to St John's baptism of Christ, the Jordan is no longer a river.
Thick, green, about 2ft wide, Israel's government calls it an 'effluent
channel'.

'It's mad,' says Mira Edelstein. 'Israeli farms who get subsidised water use 70
per cent of all water in the country and produce 2 per cent of the GDP. The
mountain aquifer on the West Bank is getting polluted, the coastal aquifer is
getting salty, and our rivers are poisonous. We might have greened the desert,
but at what cost? The state will collapse if it has no water.' So, facing an
enemy within, a demographic 'time-bomb', chronic water shortages, and a
dwindling level of patriotism in defence, one might think things look bleak for
Israel at 60.

Isaac Herzog, the Social Services Minister and son of the late Chaim Herzog,
Israel's sixth President and a former British army officer, complains of a lack
of 'serious partners for peace among the Palestinian leadership'. Even so,
'Israel had only enemies in the region when it was born. It had no international
supporters, we were under siege, and no Arab country spoke to us. Now we have
diplomatic relations with Qatar, Egypt, Jordan and part of a coalition that
wants a two-state solution for the Israelis and the Palestinians. We have forged
a country together from a mosaic of people from everywhere. Israel is a success.
We survived and thrived in the toughest possible conditions. That has to be
something of a miracle.'


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2008 Monday

German authorities fear terrorist suspects planning attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report by independent German news magazine Der Spiegel website on 21
April

[Unattributed report: "Farewell Email From Peshawar"]

The German Office of Criminal Investigation (BKA) fears that the two terrorist
suspects Eric B., 20, and Houssain al-M., 23, are planning terrorist attacks in
Afghanistan, probably even in the capital of Kabul. The two Islamists have
strong links to the so-called Sauerland terrorist cell around Fritz Gelowicz.
The two men were last seen in the Pakistan city of Peshawar near the Afghan
border at the beginning of April. Since then, the BKA has received evidence that
indicates that at least B. is in Kabul. A public search for B., which was even
published in this week's US military magazine Stars and Stripes, has been based
on a farewell email by B. From Peshawar, the man wrote to his family in Saarland
that he would not be returning to Germany but instead would carry out his last
mission in combat. Immediately after this email and receiving evidence from
Kabul, the BKA distributed posters with photographs of the two suspects among
German institutions and near hotels. According to the BKA, the two Islamists
entered Pakistan in September 2007 through Egypt and Iran and might have been
trained in an Islamic Jihad Union terrorist camp.

Source: Der Spiegel website, Hamburg, in German 21 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                                 April 21, 2008

Family's terror at hands of hammer attacker

LENGTH: 272 words


A HAMMER-WIELDING man who terrorised a 13-year-old girl and her family at their
Burnley home is facing prison.

The town's magistrates were told crazed Lee Hibbert made death threats and tried
to smash his way into the house in Castle Street and the family fled barefoot.

Hibbert was said to have been seeking retribution against people who had
assaulted him - but picked the wrong house.

In January, the defendant, who has 13 previous convictions, appeared in court
for brandishing a metal bar in the same street.

He was committed to Burnley Crown Court for sentence. He admitted affray,
possessing an offensive weapon and damage. He was bailed until May 23rd, on
condition he lives in Waterbarn Street, observes a curfew, does not enter
licensed premises, pubs or clubs, does not contact witnesses or go within 100m
of Castle Street.

Mrs Wendy Chappell (prosecuting) said the 13-year-old had gone outside at 9 p.m.
on April 12th, to talk to friends and saw the defendant come out of a house
waving a claw hammer and walk towards her.

The girl described how Hibbert's eyes bulged and said he looked "really mean".

The defendant started to hit the girl's door. Her mother locked the door, but
Hibbert kept smashed the glass and shouted: "Open the door. I'm going to kill
you."

He reached towards the lock through the broken window and the girl and her
family fled barefoot.

Mr David Lawson (defending) said Hibbert had had a dispute with his girlfriend
which resulted in him being hurt. That spilled out into the street with
neighbours and resulted in him taking the claw hammer, intent on seeking
retribution against those who had assaulted him.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            April 22, 2008, Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Woman left in terror after robber's cash point attack

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 184 words


A WOMAN has been attacked and robbed as she was taking cash out of an ATM in
Dalkeith.

The 53-year-old was grabbed from behind by a man who pressed an object against
her throat and demanded she withdraw cash from the machine in the town's high
street.

Police said that the woman, who was also robbed of her purse, had been left
shaken by the assault on Sunday afternoon. It is not known what weapon was used.

A passer-by chased the robber down Wilson Close West but was unable to catch
him.

A police spokeswoman said: "Although she escaped injury, the victim has been
understandably shaken as a result of the robbery.

"We would ask anyone who recognises the description of the suspect to get in
touch with police as a matter of urgency."

The suspect is 6ft, of slim build and in his early 20s. He was wearing a dark
woollen hat, blue jeans and a short, dark jacket.

CCTV footage has shown he emerged from Wilson Close West and sat at the bus
kiosk opposite the ATM at about 4.10pm before approaching the woman.

Anyone with any information should contact police on 0131-311 3131, or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       April 22, 2008 Tuesday 6:38 PM BST

GOLDSMITH ATTACKS GOVERNMENT ANTI-TERROR PLANS

BYLINE: David Barrett, PA Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 991 words


The Government's controversial anti-terror plans were tonight roundly attacked
by an ex-Labour cabinet minister who left power less than a year ago.

Former Attorney General Lord Goldsmith QC launched a remarkable assault on the
proposal to extend pre-charge detention of terror suspects to 42 days.

He dismissed the proposed system - which would see MPs and peers asked to back
the Home Secretary's decision to increase the limit - as ``not a great deal of a
safeguard'' and asked: ``Are you going to ask Parliament to simply trust the
Secretary of State?''

Giving evidence to the Commons' Counter-Terrorism Bill standing committee, Lord
Goldsmith said: ``The case has not been made out for that extension and I can't
personally support it.

``It is also counter-productive because it sends a message to particularly the
Muslim communities that we are down on them, that this is another attack on them
and misguided young men might take it as justification for taking up arms, as
they see it, against us.''

Several Labour backbenchers appeared exasperated by Lord Goldsmith's stance -
which will be highly damaging to the Government's plans and could even weaken
the authority of Prime Minister Gordon Brown.

One Labour committee member, Dari Taylor, told Lord Goldsmith: ``I'm finding it
extraordinarily difficult to understand where you're coming from.''

Security and policing minister Tony McNulty and his fellow Home Office minister
Vernon Coaker - who sit on the committee - did not ask Lord Goldsmith any
questions, even though Mr McNulty had probed several previous witnesses.

Under the Bill the Home Secretary would be able to authorise an extension to 42
days but the period would revert back to 28 days if the Commons or the Lords
voted against it.

Parliament would debate the extension within 30 days of it being brought in, but
legal rules would limit what could be discussed in the debates.

Lord Goldsmith, who was in Tony Blair's government for six years and was
responsible for advising ministers on the law, said: ``I don't really understand
quite how the system would work.

``Parliament isn't to be told anything which could be prejudicial to the
prosecution.

``I don't understand on what basis Parliament decides whether it was right to
extend the period or not.

``I would be very worried if questions of individual liberty were to be decided
on party lines.

``How are you going to give Parliament enough information to make a decision?

``Are you going to ask Parliament to simply trust the Secretary of State? That
doesn't really give you a great deal of a safeguard.''

He added: ``Pre-charge detention should be necessary for the purpose of
identifying whether a person is someone who needs to be charged.

``There comes a period of time when you're going to get no more useful
information out of them.''

Lord Goldsmith also revealed that he would have resigned if the former proposal
to extend pre-charge detention to 90 days - which led to Mr Blair's first defeat
in the Commons in November 2005 - had come to a Lords vote.

The committee also heard from the Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir Ken
Macdonald QC, who said prosecutors did not support the 42 days proposal.

``We have managed comfortably within 28 days. We are therefore not asking for
any increase beyond 28 days,'' he said.

A lower ``threshold'' test allows prosecutors to authorise a charge in serious
cases where less evidence is immediately available, he said.

``Our judgment is that the threshold test is sufficient to allow us the scope to
charge even in the most extraordinarily complex terrorist offences.

``It is a question for Parliament whether this provision (42 days) is directed
against a real problem or not,'' he said.

Head of the CPS counter-terrorism unit, Sue Hemming, confirmed that an extension
beyond 14 days had not been called for in the last nine months.

Earlier, Britain's top policeman said the current limit may be breached ``sooner
rather than later''.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair, who backs 42 days, said suspects
``suddenly emerge from left field'' and have to be arrested at a very early
stage, leaving officers with huge amounts of investigative work.

``We have reached a point where at 28 days we feel sooner or later - and maybe
sooner - something is going to happen to make that insufficient,'' Sir Ian said.

``We have reached a point with 28 days where we are pushing at that.''

Scotland Yard anti-terror chief, Assistant Commissioner Bob Quick, told the MPs
that 15 terror plots have been foiled by police since 2000.

Sir Ian indicated that he believed police officers were better placed than
lawyers to know whether 28 days was still sufficient.

``We are the people who have to investigate. We know the difficulties of
investigation,'' he said.

``We don't even produce the material to Crown prosecutors until we have got
it.''

Conservative members proposed inviting former MI5 director general Dame Stella
Rimington to give evidence, but this was voted down by the committee's Labour
majority, 11 votes to eight.

Tory member Patrick Mercer said of hearing from the former spy, who stepped down
in 1996 and is now a successful novelist: ``I believe she could give us an
unparalleled and unique perspective''

Outside the session, Shadow home secretary David Davis said of the decision not
to call Dame Stella: ``This speaks volumes about Labour's approach to this Bill.

``They are putting avoiding political embarrassment ahead of listening to
independent expert advice.

``This proposal will do nothing to improve our security and may make it worse so
the Government should be prepared to listen to and debate all the relevant
evidence.

``This shows they would prefer to stifle that debate.''

In the session, Conservative member Crispin Blunt suggested the composition of
MPs selected to serve on the standing committee ``did not reflect the views of
the House''.

Chairman John Bercow advised him to take the matter up ``through the usual
channels''.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501 - 1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:43:24

